1) Pathetic.,Disappointment. Inconsistency.,Cringe.,Betrayal to a 7-year-old fan base ready to give any kind of support.
2) This game is a very sad destruction of an amazing origin. I've never seen a sequel kill its series as effectively as last of us 2 has. I truly believe this IP should be given to a studio that actually has passion and want to push the last of us world forward rather then destroy it. I dont know if this was some elaborate joke or if they were trying to destroy it because they so gloriously failed this feels intentional.
3) Best gameplay, graphics, combat and definitely a must play if you love stealth games and combat. Amazing combat and i loved the violence. Although the stealth isn't as innovative as metal gear solid or hitman, its better than any of the recent assassin's creed games or tom clancy ghost recon games. The developers worked really hard on this game in fact TOO MUCH. THE AWFUL CRUNCH TIME WAS TOO UNFAIR FOR THE EMPLOYEES. But the graphics and gameplay was overall good. I loved the tiny details and what message the game was trying to tell us but it falls short on that. The story which was initially supposed to be the relationship between Joel and Ellie is very disappointing. The story derails way too early and the game wants us to care about the characters we hardly care or like. The game seems to treat other characters better than Ellie Or Joel. Almost anyone who played the first game would agree that the story in this game is bad. The Last Of Us 2 is better if you don't play the first game. But its worse and disappointing if you have played the first one and wanted more of their relationship and the narrative.
4) One of the best Games I have ever played. I can understand, that a lot of players are disappointed by how the Story of Ellie and Joel has turned, but if we look at facts we can say:,1. It looks beautiful. Sometimes you just stand around and enjoy the beautiful view the game offers to the players.,2.The Story is very captivating, even if you dont like the plot,3. The game offers  A LOT of content to discover beside the main quest.,4. The ingame music is gorgeous and gives you real goose bumps.,,I can understand the complaining community when they say something like: "What has Naghty Dog done to Joel. Ellie became a Monster. We hate Abby.",But I think, that the whole Storyline about Abby und her loved ones is very exciting because it forces the player the see a new Way of thinking and makes us realise, that Ellie and Joel are NOT the heros of the story, they are just some random people like every other in this world who are trying to survive. Therefor we cannot say that Ellie nor Abby is a monster, cause all they are trying to do ist to survive in this horrible, yet so beautiful world.,,If you want to experience one of the most tragic but also one of the beautiful storys in the gaming universe, this game is a must play.
5) Uncharacterized characters, horrible and poorly told story. Naughty dog just wanted to force politics and the lgbt agenda in a forced way to the players.
6) Just propaganda with an amazing graphics. Politics must not be in videogames
7) Is was a total flop!,Is was a total flop!,Is was a total flop!,Is was a total flop!
8) Joel dies. Very political. Lost a ton of respect for the developer. I hated it so much I I probably won't buy another game from them.
9) the story is awful, not recommended at all,7 years for this s#it, lol gfys LGBT people. paid snowflakes critics will not change anything.
10) propaganda, imposing one's opinion, humiliating men, draining all the main characters
11) The worst game I have ever played. The story is so bad and the writing for characters is worst
12) Graphics are really good, story sucks. Half the game I tried killing myself and wasted bullets. I will not buy naughty dog games anymore unless Neil is removed. I feel scammed. Worst good game of the generation. Worst. A 6/10 for me
13) The only thing that pulls out the game is Joel, you are already familiar with him from the 1st part and are imbued with this hero. The rest of the game are just pieces of texture, not a soul, not a story. Everything that causes emotions in this game is taken from the 1st part. The very thing is complete ****
14) Terrible game still too this day I don’t know why people like this **** ass game **** Sony dick riders
15) Complete garbage. Story is horrible just a bunch of social justice nonsense that is thrown All over the place. DO NOT BUY.
16) I've written my first review on 26 November, so I gave this game 10. Today 2/26, I downloaded the game, started playing, and understood that I don't want to walk through this again. I don't want to see been killed Joel or bitten Elli. I don't want to see the story where the screenplay messes Elly and Joel with **** I feel sad. I want to play but do not want to watch this story, not ever again. BTW I bought the Ghost of..., and it is good - soo good. The game should give any emotions, but not hate, to the players. That is why GoT better the last of us part 2.
17) Awful plot almost like it was intended to ruined the next few weeks for anyone who played it
18) My sincere opinion, I played this game and I was totally disappointed, a bad experience, I didn't buy the game, I won, and the disappointment was so great that I will break this garbage. It's absurd how they can ruin a franchise, with a totally revolting story and addressing issues that don't need to be addressed in a game.
19) I felt very very sad to play this game the first one was legend this part is the worst.. nothing in the game makes sense just completely trash and the ending was nightmare
20) the games outdated mechanics and up dated graphic couldn’t make up for the dreadful mediocre story telling. the developers seemed more interested in awkward self insertions and pushing an agenda than providing a good story,character are unlikeable at worst and bland and predictable at best if it was not for the graphics this game would unanimously be low tier. they did very little to improve on the gameplay from the TLOU1 and it feels like the game is actively punishing you while you play it.
21) this game ruins every good memory I had for the first game and I feel like ı was robbed , this game is just awful don't play it
22) Pure trash! Loved the first one! Would give the second one a negative score of I could. When you have a game like The Last of Us and it beloved and one of the greatest video games of all time, and you follow it up with this piece of trash....what were you thinking? Talk about ruining a franchise!
23) I certainly loved the first game, but after 7 years of waiting, when I finally finished the Part 2, I realized, although it has one of the best graphics of all time, but undoubtedly is a piece of trash from the point of storytelling and a completely time-wasting experience، and I wish it never existed...
24) The last of us story ended with the first one. This game is a giant waste of time.
25) If you loved the first game DON`T play the second part you will be disappointed from the story and lack of innovations. This game destroyed everything that the first game build.
26) Remember everything you loved about the last of us? The narrative of a father who lost his daughter, the new relationship he forms with ellie, and the trials they went through in the first game. Ready for the continuation of that story? Then get ready for last of us part 2.....wait what? Joel dies an hour in?.. okay well at least he dies heroically protecting ellie right?...oh he doesn't ...okay at least  we get to play as ellie for the whole game right?..no we play as a weird she hulk?...well at least ellie gets to kill her at the end right?...oh well at least the story makes a good point right?......Save yourself 60$ or whatever bargain price its surely at now the game is complete trash
27) game is very gay because theyre is a woman and woman like dicks and its lgbt,propaganda
28) 0/10. Would not recommend, game is very glitchy, save files being deleted/wiped, poor story telling, short story, not worth the price! Your money would honestly be better spend buying V-Bucks on Fortnite, yes that's how much TLOU2 sucks.,,I also reached out to naughty dog customer service about my issues, however they were very rude.
29) I don’t like the story and I hated the way emotional and abnormal relationships were crammed into the story, which did not affect not mentioning it
30) WTF!? What a **** disgusting piece of game is this? Who wrote this story? Where is the emotions I've felt in the first Last of Us? I literally cried while playing the first game and I wont trust anyone who say they didn't. Why the hell try to show us BOTH sides of a story? I don't **** care about Abby and her story. I can not care one bit! Did naughty dog suddenly forget to write good stories? This game is literally trash. Don't buy it. Don't let any of your friends play it. Let this be lesson to the developers!!!
31) Don't waste your time on this **** game. The story is total joke like a two year kid just made mess. I wouldn't mind if you play it for gameplay or graphics. Don't waste your money on this one. This is an example that story matters, you can't push crap with glitter on it.
32) What happens when you put liberal propaganda over telling a genuinely emotional story, you end up with the last of us part II
33) everything about this game is piece of ****,this is not courage but stupidity
34) Bad writing, Average revenge plot, revenge is good for Abby but not for Ellie, kill so many people and not finishing the end that is bad writing story there. The gameplay is rusty, almost same like part 1.  To hell with political matter, I play the game for fun and I got refund this game so joke on you.
35) A betrayal associated with insiduous political messages that make the story predictible. The story is horrendous and uses a lot of cheap illogic tricks.,This game is like looking at a really beautiful cake but on the first bite you realize its insides are made of poisonous cockroaches.
36) Metacritic has arbitrarily decided to delete my first review. So one more time.,I admit I only played for a few hours. I didn't have enough nerves for any more. I had never disliked the protagonists so much, and without J there was no point in continuing.,The graphics is good and that's the only positive. Boring, repetitive gameplay. Disgusting characters. But the plot is the worst part, and I've heard that it only gets worse later.,I will never buy anything from these developers again.
37) It is not what i would like it to be its far from what first game was. Its not cheated world but they just mirror our world problems into the game and i dont want that
38) A game with a **** lezbian story that is good for just lezbians. There are many better games that this **** Really???? The game of the year?????
39) On the afternoon of August 18, 1973, five young people in a Volkswagen van ran out of gas on a farm road in South Texas. Four of them were never seen again. The next morning the one survivor, Sally Hardesty-Enright, was picked up on a roadside, blood-caked and screaming murder. Sally said she had broken out of a window in Hell. The girl babbled a mad tale: a cannibal family in an isolated farmhouse... chainsawed fingers and bones... her brother, her friends hacked up for barbecue... chairs made of human skeletons... Then she sank into catatonia. Texas lawmen mounted a month-long manhunt, but could not locate the macabre farmhouse. They could find no killers and no victims. No facts; no crime. Officially, on the records, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre never happened. But during the last 13 years, over and over again reports of bizarre, grisly chainsaw mass-murders have persisted all across the state of Texas. The Texas Chainsaw Massacre has not stopped. It haunts Texas. It seems to have no end.
40) The story and the characters in this game don't make any sense. The gameplay is the same as the first one. It's a shame such a great franchise wad butchered like this.
41) Caca poo poo stay away from this game folks what a disservice to it's fans and characters this is a prime example of how not to treat your game woke trash I'm done.
42) It is perfectly okay for all of you fans who like this game.,After all, appreciation is always relative.,However, to me, who loved Part I, and thinks it was one of the greatest game,,this game was a huge middle finger shoving at my face.,The message of this game which is hated by many people are actually quite acceptable to me,,but I wonder, did it had to be put in The Last Of Us franchise?,Similar to the new Starwars franchise, if you want to make something and put your ideas in it,,make a whole new franchise, don't put it in a existing one, which was loved by many people.,,To players who play Part II before Part I, I highly doubt if there are any though,,this game is very beautiful and interesting.,To players who played Part I and loved it, you might want to think this game doesn't exist at all.,Sorry for my poor English, because it is not my first language.
43) Deception!!! I hated every minute of that game. I threw my money in the trash! I don't recommend this game
44) This is an extremely mediocre game, like many other PlayStation exclusives. The gameplay is loot-stealth-shoot-repeat, the graphics are extremely limited by outdated hardware, and the story... well, if you desire to sink a little into the political madness which currently pervades the western society, you are more than welcome to play Last of Us 2.,5/10 without taking into account the political message, 0/10 for brainwashing attempts.
45) I would like to add 10/10 but then I have to play as Abby? I don't want to do it, i don't want to hear her story, i don't want to hear and know her point of view. F**k her.
46) One of the worst movies ever Yes movies this **** is not a game at this point the gameplay is nothing but shooting and bad stealth. And the story is a joke.
47) Atrocious. I’ll stick to the genius of the first and ONLY game in the series. Part 2 is dead to me. Excuse the pun.
48) It is a shame what Naughty Dog did with this game. Everything made on the wrong timing, and forcing the player to care about characters that we want to kill. Everybody is bad in TLOF world, and that does not mean we have to care if it has other "good people" to care about, except for Ellie and Joe. Naughty Dog said for 7 years that TLOF Part 2 would be another adventure with Ellie and Joe, so we can say that they lied. They forget that videogame is not a movie. It is nice when games have a movie style, but it still not a movie. 60 dollars for Ellie and Joe, and you get Abby, and a bunch of people that I do not even remember their names, because I do not care about then. Wanna talk more about Abby? Make a DLC.  Dont put in the main game, as if she is as important as Ellie.
49) Why do you even dare to put your own reviews over the people's voice....,Don't you feel like #1 scammers when you have different review compared to the actual users.
50) A game as a desepcinating story, which stains the name of the saga and a very repetitive message at present
51) 10k votes against 2k of Tsushima and the rest of them... shameless cheaters
52) Wow that's bad. I mean I've played games with average stories, games with bad stories, but this is single handedly the worst written game I have ever played. This is worse than the story for sonic forces. wow.
53) the best game ever created.    .
54) this game is horrible, and its so sad to see a 90+ for the "jouranlist class", they clearly don't even play games or care about their story.,,there is no fun to be had here. the characters are awful and clearly designed to fill a quota, not to be liked
55) Everything is good but the story is COMPLETELY garbage. I don't recommend this game for people to have a good time, because no body really would like this.
56) Gameplay is rather fine, but feels meaningless with the context of the story. completely ruining everything about the characters that was likeable and killing certain ones off at the worst of times leaves the decent gameplay feeling worthless and like a job. play the first one if you haven't, truly a masterpiece aside from the annoying looting and sluggish gameplay, you feel so deeply for the story none of it even matters
57) The last of Ebbi2, god story, i rely like Elie, and thx for Joel, I like so match Nil Drukmen
58) Normally I care more about the gameplay than the story, but the story in first game was so good that I believed there is no way they could ruin the sequel. Little did I know. This game has to be the worst in terms of story and character build-up in history of gaming industry. They devs simply do not care about the fans, they straight up created propaganda to promote their feminism and lgbt stuff without taking the previous masterpiece into consideration.
59) ........I hate LGBT. 0/10,,........I hate LGBT. 0/10,,........I hate LGBT. 0/10,,........I hate LGBT. 0/10,,........I hate LGBT. 0/10,,........
60) With NG killing off someone who we lived with 7 years by a golf club, i had no reason to play on furthur. As with Arthur Morgan, he went off with a heroic death saving John in the process.
61) A disgrace to the first game. Do. Not. Play. I repeat, DO. NOT. PLAY. The ending was really poorly written. Ellie did horrible choices during the whole story. Everything was just horrible.
62) Neil Druckmann what are you doing? Find something else to do. Don't make any more games.
63) I heard about the controversy in summer last year. I finished the story today and now I know why.,,My problem besides the story is the lack of end bosses and the variety of different zombies. It feels always the same. Over and over you do the same for 12 to 14 hours.,1. Kill People/Zombies quietly or loudly,2. Search for items,3. Cutscene,4. Start from 1,,The Problem of the Story though. Man. They really don't want to do a Part III. They really don't.,,Besides of killing Joel, the lack of emotions between Ellie and Joel is ridiculous.,They went to thick and thin in Part I and I understand the emotions Ellie had, but common man.,It like your father. And Joel looked Ellie like her daughter. BUT THEY NEVER REALLY TALKED ABOUT THAT STUFF. That's annoying to me. The lack of emotions that they deserved. Went to all that **** in Part I. At the end of Part I Joel would react the same, because even there would be a cure  Ellie would die. He would lose his 2nd daughter. They didn't get the chance of developing what they deserved.,,Even when the **** story ended like this. Why Ellie didn't expressed her feelings or emotions with some words. They cut the scenes. But 14 hours of doing the same is alright.,,It's reminds me of the maker of Sherlock Holmes who killed Sherlock in his book, because he got annoyed by him. Just later to revive him because the **** hit the fan. Feels the same with the last of us.,,When Part III is happening I won't play it. Everything what made The Last of Us amazing is raped. I hoped somebody else would have made the story.
64) I'd be lying if I said this game doesn't have good parts. Judging just the story, I has good elements, just told in a poor way. This same story could've been told in a far better way but unfortunately naughty dog messed this one up.,,No justification to drag a 12 hr game into 25 hr. They wanted to make the audience feel like Ellie but in the end it just leaves the audience with no clue as to the purpose of the game.,,The good:,- Excellent graphics,- Voice acting and overall acting and presentation is amazing,- minor increase in variety of enemies fought.,- Development of Ellie as a character is done well.,,The bad,- Execution of a disconnected story.,- Repetitive game-play,- If you love good story games and have played the first game with joy 7 years ago, you might feel betrayed.
65) This is the first game I don't like and I give a note and leave a review. I usually get it that liking a game or not is subjective but when you present a trailer and show scenes with Ellie and Joel only to later find out it's not gonna be like that, i already feel this is **** Let's be honest, most of the people loved the first game because of the story, not the gameplay so the people complaining about people leaving bad reviews based only on the story should understand that if the story alone can make a game good, it should be able to make it bad as well. Having to play the character that killed my favorite character so therefore, i don't really like it and having to keep it alive and explore it's story (that's what you do while you play ) adds a completely different feeling to the game than the first one and I, like most of the others, bought this game because I liked the first one and hoped to experience what was presented in the trailers ( Joel and Ellie ) , not just some flashbacks. I will not complain about the inconsistency of the characters because tbh i wouldn't complain about it if I would've like the story .
66) The game is not what I expected. It had a dissapointing story, features lesbian characters, gameplay was a bit bad and what's worse, it won the game of the year 2020. Why did The last of us part 2 win the game of the year awards when you have really good games such as ghost of tushima, doom eternal, cyberpunk 2077, hades, animal crossing new horizons, Spider-Man miles morales and the most anticipated video game demon souls. I highly recommend you to play the other the last of us games except for the last of us part 2.
67) The thing that just really sucks the most, is the fact that forcefully make you play a shtty character, even Neil druckman said that ellie would be the only playable character, which mean he lied.
68) Terrible game. Injects political bias into what should be a good gaming experience.
69) Biggest disappointment I've had in 2020, last of us part 1 was literally the best game I've ever played but you had to ruin it all
70) How can you fail so bad at making a good story, not even an average one, try to hide this with good graphics, and to top it off straight humiliate all the standards the previous title stood for.,Just disappointing.
71) This game was a complete spit in the face of part 1 anyone who has played the game or even watched knows this doesn't deserve game of the year no matter how good the graphics/movements are.
72) The last of us 2 was one of the biggest anticipated game of 2020 because of its incredible fan base. this game apart from its amazing graphics and flowless game play it also includes, in the story line, a lesbian romance between Ellie and Dina. this shows the support of Naughty Dog to the LGBTQ community and also it shows the first masculine female character in a AAA game that is Abby, showing the possibility of dominance of the female character in a story based game.
73) This game has one of the worst stories I've ever seen. If you're a big fan of part 1 like I am, I don't recommend you to play this game at all. Every main character from the first game is treated like garbage in this one, and acts like an idiot. Graphics are amazing witch is a wasted opportunity, the game play is good, but the story is simply disgusting. So in conclusion:,,Graphics:9.5/10,Game play: 8.5/10  (this part is more based on personal preference),Story:0/10,,Conclusion:0 to balance all the crazy 10 of people who don't understand anything about stories and human behavior.
74) The Disney Star Wars failure of video games. No one who was an actual fan the original likes this one and the only people who defend it are the worse political types who never actually cared for the game itself.
75) This game sucks. DO NOT BUY IT. Not based. Not KEK. Gay propaganda. Im disgusted.
76) oh my god this game story was so terrible and suck what can i do more speak? this game is suck
77) Worst narrative and characters I have seen in a while even the character development doesn't feel decent
78) Best thing about this game is rope's physics. Everything else is trash strarting with predictable storyline, dumb AI, awful level design. Don't waste your money on this unless you want your eyes and ears bleed after you see how they wrecked everything.
79) Metacritic must play?,Dont make me laugh this game is an absolute scam.,The ma'am of us 2
80) Terrible game, it seems like they made this game simply to virtue signal and be a social justice warrior. Horrendous game, we get enough politics with social media "platforms" trying to brainwash people, now in games too? Pathetic. Don't waste your money on this terrible terrible game
81) I've seen porn with better plot than this dog **** to the first one this one was a waste of my **** money,you can't have a game that's all about story and make the story so **** bad,I don't understand why people keep comparing this one with games like doom eternal,dmc5 etc and say that it's not all about the story because games like these are good and the story is forgettable,but lemme tell you something **** games main focus it's not on the **** story,in these it's all about the combat and action that it's tons of fun,the last of us has always has been about the story,yeah the graphics are amazing and the levels are well designed but that doesn't make up in the slightest for what the story is because once again this game it's ALL ABOUT THE **** STORY AND IT'S DOG ****
82) absolutely disgusting that the hot main character is a lesbian , how am I supposed to connect on an emotional level with ellie  if she likes women more than man .
83) It is piece of s**** , story is boring and stupid, moral doesn't wor (Ellie in gameplay and Cutscenes are two different person) , Abby is Arlond Shvartsneger does not cause sympathy.
84) Took everything great about the first game and took a dump on it. Worst story ever in a game
85) It’s really **** story other than that it’s great I don’t nobody plays the last of us for the **** graphics It’s a waste of money do not buy
86) The game Is to annoying, some characters follow some politic agenda marketing values
87) "Woke" SJW bullsh*t and propaganda. Don't waste your money, just watch an episode of Jerry Springer where Alabama lesbians fight over each other instead as that's about what you'll get with this.
88) Grate work to the develop team for grate graphics and gameplay,My real score is 5 BUT  the game fan boys have alot of 10s so im just trying to get my 5 by giving a 0 Anyways HUGE  story problems and SO MANY bad characters  are the reasons that desepointed me alot And bro,Im so sorry for naughtydog team because of havong that guy leading them
89) Naughty Dog really tried to go all deep on us with this one, but as it turns out they kinda accidentally **** the bed. 93 as a critic score is one of the most insane things I've ever seen, just wow.
90) This game just disappoints me. I don't how this won the game awards, but this game is no for me.
91) An improbable story.,This is the worst game of the year.,Nice graphics and motion but story is ****,I was disappointed.
92) absolute garbage and an insult to the first game. Disrespectful to the fans to make you play as the literal **** enemy and hunt yourself down, and you can't even kill the manly stupid **** abby at the end,,**** this game
93) Yep, someday some guy killed ur wife, and u killed thousand people who have nothing to do with it. But when u saw that dude killed ur wife, u just let that murder go, amazing!!!
94) One of the biggest disappointments of 2020. Waited 7 years for this garbage.
95) i finally played this game, and i'm really disappointed, it's really as bad as people say it is.,what did the people who wrote the story think when they wrote it, it's the worst revenge story i've ever seen, and why every character feels out of place and they act in the most annoying way.,but the worst part is the ending, it's so bad it makes Andromeda's ending look good.,save your time and money and don't play this horrible game.
96) This is a sad excuse for a sequel...,,The graphics are amazing...,The gameplay is over-the-top.,But Jesus Christ... the story is just horrible....,I get what they were trying to do, but it didn't work....,The moment they gave me Abby as a playable character, I shut down the game and don't intend on ever touching it again.....
97) Just ruined the whole story of the first game .    F
98) Disappointing game. I was really hyped for it but it was awful. Every missions are same just in different places. The worst part is the story
99) The main actress is as beautiful as the gorilla. The gamers were forced by the game developers to watch her make love.,Completely ignore the  context of the previous game and kill the previous role at will.,=====================,醜的跟猩猩一樣的女主角，還要強迫看她做愛。,完全無視前作的邏輯，任意殺掉前作腳色。
100) Now the title makes all sense.,The last of us, with no us or they.,Piece of ****
101) this sucks on so many levels this sucks on so many levels this sucks on so many levels
102) this game has been DCMA , censorred, scores manipulated, blocked by  "paid for critic", the fans have been treated miserably....and has been given all the games awards in the planet,,this has been a huge 2 fingers from the press, developers, company, sony, to the fans, to impose their fake "morality and social justice".....,,70k reviews 10-10 are fake
103) The Last of Us II is a game that could split your fan base like never before. Although graphically good, it is undeniable that the present political activism throughout the game could ruin what was possibly one of the best sequels of the games industry
104) Not much to say with so much already said and posted about this. Just another person who felt the first game was one of best you could play. The story, writing, graphics were all top notch. TLOU 2 is a high quality game but the writing and story was horrible. I’ll just leave it at that. I shouldn’t be surprised though.
105) A good and interesting story was turned into a piece of **** so that the authors would sell this **** to more people. The studio has conceded to minorities who aren't even interested in the game.
106) Bad story which is the only thing supporting naugthy dog's games... Shame it got goty...
107) Crappy story that spoils decent level design and great graphics.,Kills the main character that gamers enjoyed the most in the first installment and replaces it with a uncompelling story arc.,Skip this game and enjoy the first game again - the first one is one of the best video games ever made!
108) Had to play as Abby!!!!!,Couldn't kill Abby!!!!!,The idiots that thought this tings where good ideas should be fired!!!!!!!!!!!,The only good part was when i let Elie kill Abby multiple times with me smiling like a psycho for about an hour during that level.
109) Big pile of garbage made by greedy trash company called Naughty dog. They don't even care about their employees and treat them harshly. Story is generic cliche "revenge is bad" story, it is some amateur level writing stuff there. Story and characters contradict many times. Anyone who played the first last of us should know this is trash game. Graphics and gameplay are improved but this is not enough reason to give this game positive score. Last of us 2 and its fanbase is a joke and they are insult to the first game. All the journalists and critics gave this game higher than 50% score are pathetic clowns and sheeps who don't have any personal opinions, only thing they can do is follow mainstream media and public opinions blindly.,And the last thing to say: WE WANT JUSTICE FOR JOEL!!!
110) i liked the first game and this was a huge slap in the face for me.. hated every minute playing as the enemy..
111) A pointless departure that lacks any innovative purpose to the game series.
112) This is not a dumb action game. This game makes story-telling choices that are bold and challenging for the player. This game will not make you feel like a good hero who saves everyone - you will feel conflicted and sad. It's the best game I've ever played, but I would not recommend it for everyone.,,The game does an excellent job of making combat and stealth feel "real" by stripping away a lot of arcadey elements of most stealth/FPS games. You have to use all your senses and situational awareness to do well in stealth and combat. It can be frustrating sometimes, and can even feel unfair, but I can't think of many ways they could have made the gameplay smoother without sacrificing realism. And it had to feel real to make the story feel real, too.,,So, for me, the game is a 10/10 for gameplay, story, and graphics. They had a goal and they achieved it incredibly well. But many people will not enjoy this game at all, and that's okay. We need more AAA games that take risks and strive for something beyond simple, satisfying games that most gamers will like.
113) The story os really bad, Ellie's a bad character and they destroyed everything that was built in the prequel!
114) Boring and overrated. When the difference between the "critics" and the audience is so high it means that something fishy happened with the reviews from "experts". The main problem i have with this game is that they tried to portray a movie onto a videogame and it does not work. It is when you want to make a movie out from a videogame.,The pace of the game just feels wrong and out of place.
115) The VA's aren't the problem here, the game itself is. Metacritic is. The game awards are. This abomination is about as good as E.T. The extra terrestrial for the Atari 2600. The victories were undeserved, lackluster and most of all: "Foul play",,Made an account just for this review. Peace out!
116) Bought this discounted having been a huge fan of the first game. Hated the direction they took this in. Absolute disservice to the franchise. Shameful. Imagine playing god of war where they dissmisively kill off kratos.
117) The gameplay is average, the graphics are great, however the story and writing are terrible. Since this is a story driven game I'm giving it 0/10. One of the worst, most bland stories I've ever played. Doom eternal has a better story which is saying something.
118) worst game in the history of the gaming industry,how tired of this sjw ****
119) I don't know where to begin with. TLOU2 destroys EVERYTHING that made the first game great.,It's a **** revenge story that I couldn't care less about. The graphics are great, but it wasn't the graphics that made the first game won so many prizes; it was the STORY! here the returning characters (etc Joel, Ellie and ...) don't behave like they were introduced in the first game. they are completely different people, and very stupid people. The dialogues are cheesy and stupid AF. And don't get me started about the ending! If you played the first game, this game makes all you did in the first game completely pointless. And the whole story in this one is completely pointless too once you reach the ending. Don't buy it, don't waste your money!
120) Oh my god this game sucks soo bad , controls are horrible , the story doesn’t even make sense .. no Replayability absolutely dog poo
121) Look, honestly I didn't even play the original game, and I don't give a **** about all the "SJW" or "Incel" fight here. I'm only here because I don't want this game to have a higher score than Duke Nuke Forever. Hail to the king baby.
122) The most disappointing game of 2020. I can't believe how they ruin potential. Plz, just don't buy this game. Not worth it.
123) Not game of the year. I cannot believe this got game of the year, literally nobody wanted this.
124) It get a zero for simply treating its player base with absolute giggling contempt, they had their chance to fix it, they were warned they should and still chose not to.,You wanna tell a story with a female lead, Fine!,You want a character to get hit with karma, fine!,You DON'T make it into a glorified torture porn scene just to spit in people's faces.
125) Great graphics and gameplay but the story is an insult to people who loved part 1
126) this game is dog **** **** metacritc for not allowing negative reviews if this gets taken down you have proven my point even more **** naughty dog and **** ****
127) Very bad story,.,If you have the desire to ruin your view on this game franchise, this game is for you!,,They should be ashamed of their pandering to sony and deceiving the public for personal gain. #Gamergate,,"stunning & brave 10/10"
128) To be fair technically and for graphics it is a 8/10. But....,,minus 3 for mediocore boring gameplay,minus 10 for sony's and ND behaviour with the leaks,minus 10 for Neil's BS,minus 10 for killing a beloved character and the whole franchise,minus 100 for putting in SJW politics down your throat,minus 100 for the bs story,minus 10 for 10/10 shill media reviews,...etc.,,therefore minus zero!!! It's a shame, TLOU1 was a 9/10 for me. A rly GREAT game. This one is beyond bs.
129) I dont live in USA to be ok with those bs political ideologies in my game.,0/10
130) Rigged, imagine that a complete average game leave The Game Awards with more than 4 awards. Political agendas
131) Huge disappointment from TLOU, and the worst part of this game came directly from the story telling.
132) Overrated, Disgusting content and Using the money to buy the good rating.this is a **** work,and it is not deserve get the higher marks than zero.So terrible,and disappointed
133) Played 17 hours. Loved it. Played the next 2 hours. OMG NO!!! Lesbians? it’s not a problem - I don’t care about their sexuality you go for it girls. But...the death of a main character needs avenging and now I get no choice but to say I forgive you. I don’t forgive you and I certainly don’t forgive naughty dog and Sony. As far as I’m concerned, I payed as Ellie and loved it. I played as Abbie, got killed and that’s the real ending. I’m off to burn my copy as I can’t bare the thought of anyone else having to go through this tripe. Thanks.
134) I do not like the feelings of being deceived. Especially when I loved the first game. These people have used our love for the first game to make sure they will still get profit by intentionally hiding the true main character and main story line.,Even now I still don't know how much it has been sold since we could only see "3days 4 million" the same slogan going on.,But I could say that they are not gonna get my money with the next game or product as long as  Naughty Dog or Neil Druckmann has participated in the project.
135) Don't waste your time and money in this game. There are better things to do with your life.
136) Worst ever game of naughty dog studio. Too much lgbt crap in game. But video is very good.
137) I was so hyped for this game, until I played saw all the political correctness BS. 1) No story at all, REVENGE sums it up, literally cannot be described with more words.,2) I was one of the biggest fans of naughty dog games, now I cant get myself to play the first part again which I usually do from time to time.,3) If they are okay with this game, then its sad to think about whats coming next, but I have to thank them, lost money buying this game, but saved much more in buying future Naughty Dog games.,4) I play a game to have fun, not to be forced to see things that is clearly "brainwash" material and things gamers give 0 s**ts about.,Anyone who wants this game, get in touch with me and I'll give it to you for free. AND I'LL EVEN PAY FOR SHIPPING TO ANY DESTINATION YOU LIKE.
138) I am severely disappointed with Naughty Dog. The story is far worse than the last season of game of thrones. The gameplay is too similar to the original game. The political agenda is being hammered into the skull of the player, the characters were made to generate controversy not to be praised and loved like the original game did. I don't mind female lead games at all, but a game that makes all men seem like evil trash is offensive and insulting to the majority of players buying this game. Why could they not make this game like other female led games which have been respected by consumer and critics alike.
139) An absolute spit in the face to fans of the original game. An incoherent and nihilistic mess of a story and a blatant disregard to character development. It’s as if it was made by completely different creators.
140) The lesbian of us is horrible, the final is horrible, every things in the game appers no sense, in my opinion its a game with much politics ideologics and not have the essential, one gameplay good, and nice history.
141) Press F for Respect Joel. It's so waster money. Trash game. My favorite character died like a dog in chapter 2 of game series??? Terrible
142) The plot is terrible. Especially the ending. And what if I wanted to kill Abby the developers did not think about it.Bugs in the game, scripts do not work correctly.I have to play for Abby 60% of the game that I hate.don’t understand what the developers were counting on, that I will have a sympathy for Abby playing for her.I’ll tell you no. She killed the main character and I don’t give a damn about her story. I wanted her to die.Delete negative reviews but what about freedom of speech?Now do not give a rating and leave a review.And I do not like SJW games.
143) What a Fricking dumpster fire of a game,*spits* I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it,I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate it
144) The graphics and gameplay are awesome but the story and plot twist really makes me laugh, this isn't the sequel tbh
145) the best game of the story haters are **** heads they don't know what they're missing those who say it's **** are just xbox fanboys
146) graphics and violence are great, the rest is just political bs and bad script
147) "part 2" does not exist. I hate this incoherent story.,I sold it immediately.,It turned out again that "Last of Us" was definitely a masterpiece.,I will never play the Last of Us series that will be released in the future.,from Japanese gamer.
148) This game is the literal definition of a moviegame written by a failed film writer wannabe. It has no place in the video game industry and is heavily shoving sjw propaganda down our throats. Not to mention the random death in the beginning of the story which made me fume.,,Story- 0 / 10,Graphics 8 / 10 (the only redeeming part),Gameplay 7 / 10
149) Literal trash. Trash gameplay, trash characters, and a total slap in the face to true Naughty Dog/TLOU fans. I'm done. Never buying another ND game again.
150) You told us Joel was going to be apart of the game. Lairs:( Fun factor 0/10
151) I have been waiting for this game for years. The Last of Us part 1 was my favourite game ever. The second part is just an insult to the franchise and it's fans.
152) TRASH from the moment Joel dies, but even before that it was trash. Hope Neil Druckmann commits suicide as he ruined the only game I actually enjoy in my depressed world. **** you Neil Druckmann, **** ****
153) **** is played more with abby than with ellie and in the trailer it said that it was played only with ellie and in the end abby does not die i hate abby **** game
154) Worst game I've seen story wise in decades.,The gameplay is just as good if not better than the last of us, the story made me want to vomit,,The characters are unlikable, the beginning scenes turn the uncomfortable levels so far beyond the uncomfortable scenes in the first game there is no return to typical. The entire game is marred by awful uneasiness.,I didn't believe it was possible to like Negan in walking dead after his introduction but somehow JDM managed to charm his way into a likable character after a few seasons. DO NOT EXPECT THIS OF ABBY! She is unlikable through the entire game and does not once do anything that makes you forget how awful she is and how brutally she killed Joel, You feel physically ill when you actually have to play as her again and hate every moment of it.,I'm so glad this game has bombed as badly as it did. Maybe we will be lucky enough not to get another one. It's astonishing how badly a developer can drop the ball on a franchise.
155) The Game's Story (which was the most important thing for me) Was a Disaster...,but other things like Music,gameplay and graphics were good
156) Just finished it. Really titled to get over everything I heard.. and .. nop.. a big nop for me.
157) When you thought 2020 can't get any worse there is this sjw abomination. I'm the side you get **** gameplay.
158) Brain washing filth. Disgusting characters with the intention to validate violence and the modern social agenda
159) where to start?,This game for me doesn´t exists, crap history, sad ending, the first one is nothing compare to this....gameplay is okay for 2013,Naugthy what are you thinking?
160) Game is **** , dont care for the gameplay. Of course better graphics were too be in this game but story is the main reason people played this game and the story is some **** dog **** and the deva should be ashamed for releasing this trash of a sequel. Smh.
161) Disappointing. Story disaster. Yes, technically is a nice game, nice graphics, nice battles, nice locations. But the main part, what we loved, has been totally abused and devasted. I cannot explain how much annoying was to play the part of the murderer of Joel for almost half part of the game and how much disappointed I was at the end when, after to have killed thousands people, there is this forced moral ending. No comment. The success of the last of us part 1 was the love, the love between two persons inside a violent and cruel world. And this love won against everything. In the last of us part 2 they distroyed this love, and they forced us to learn something by a lot of different characters that you never feel yours. I am sorry. It doesn't work. The passion is the key. Zero is the score.
162) A total disappointment, everything in this game is disgusting - the plot, characters, story...
163) I don't like it It's so ugly that's why I don't like it and I buy it 75 €
164) Dissappointing history n lore... It seems they wanted to force “inclusion” and ended up ruining the game
165) This ending ruined the whole story,If elliy remember joel she should avenge him not spare the life of the one who torture and killed him
166) This is a rubbish feminism game -10/10 plot of a play please don’t release part 3 and close the company I recommend play the other game
167) Terrible plot, repetitive gameplay, and unlikeable characters. Forgets any character development before the second game
168) The last of Us 2 makes a mockery of everything the 1st game stood for, gameplay-wise there is very little evolution compared to TLOU1.
169) i am really wonder how its possible the critic reviews give this game such a high rating, we play the same game? ridiculous story full of identity politics, they said before this game will be new level of game, like new kind of triple a game. but turn out nothing new in this one, just the same game with bad story and annoying characters
170) This game is awful. The pacing is slow. It is just a really boring game. Do yourself a favor and avoid this game at all costs.
171) absolute garbage!,,+ graphic is nice,,~ ok gameplay but too less due to first contra,,- Rly **** story with either full cliché elements in it, stuff that makes no sence due to next contra, and looong boring filler cutsence which add nothing to the story at all and just take away the gameplay,,- Characters are unlike to the very good first game, very empty shells and Characters from the first game are a shell from theyr former self. they think being a lesbian is character enough to define ellie with it, which is an Insult for the first time fans, which liked her complex and good written character. Abby is the worst character ever written whith no depth at all or even a reason why she does **** in the first place.,,- Like I said the booring cutscenes and unskippaple interactable cutscenes where you click at some unimportand objects are just booring to watch.,,- The most disgusting sex scene I ever witness. Sony banning anime **** but Sheman Abby cumping this **** is ok?! Even bigger insult,,Conclusion:,,Every fan from the first time has every right to be upseat about how crappy the second game is compared tho the rly good first game which we grew to love and hyped the **** out of us. But year keep calling the critics homophobig or transphobig (even tho abby isnt even trans) so you dont have to listen to all the negative critic the mean people threw at ya. **** the devs for ****ting in our mouths with this garbage of a game and **** everyone trying to put words in our mouths for disliking the game
172) This game is a slap in the face to everyone that loved the first game. Do not buy this and save your money. The truth and context of this game is much worse than the leaks. Before I get into one of the worst stories ever. The gameplay is very average in today's modern gaming generation. There are minor improvements from the first game and enemy AI is dumb as ever. There are more cut scenes and walking than actual gameplay. SPOILER ALERT..... they destroyed all of your favorite characters. They dumb down Joel's character on purpose to make him weak and stupid. In the first game he was very smart and had a ton of experience. He didn't even trust a guy that was sick on the road. He chose to run him over. Later we find out that stranger on the road was not sick and it was all a set up. They do everything to make you dislike Joel and continue to spit on him. They have a trans female/male shoot him in the leg and torture him with a golf club right in the first 2 hours of the game. They spit on him literally. They made Ellie unlikable and a selfish human being. She kills everyone and continued to blame Joel for saving her life. She cared so much in saving humanity because she has the immunity but instead she became a lesbian and chose not to reproduce. Let that sink in. She even let's Abby the one that tortured and murdered Joel in front of her get away with it. Abby also bit off two of Ellie's fingers. Her letting Abby go is basically saying Joel deserved dying. A loveable character who is the main character of the game. There was no justice for Joel. This game robbed everything from you just for shock value. The current narrative of destroying the male character to make the female character rise is very weak story telling. It is disrespectful to both genders. Females even hate it. Worst of all the pacing of the story is horrible. You literally play as Abby the character we hate for half the game. They tried so hard to make us like her but none of it worked. This game is a waste of time and money and should have never been created as a sequel. The critics are liars and they don't care about what the fans want. They only care about their political narrative and force you to like something that you will never accept. Then they insult you by calling you names because you don't like the product they are praising. They are the worst kind of human being. Trust the gamers that actually love playing the kind of video games you like. Those are the ones who you should listen to. Vote with your wallet and avoid this dumpster fire. Why care for a game created by a studio that is run by Neil Druckmann who is a male feminist and does not care about the fans and the people he works with. That's why 75 percent of Naughty dog left the company due to how he treated them. This game is created by people that don't care about you and backed by people that hate you. The game wasn't made for the fans and gamers. Vote with your wallets and avoid this at all cost. Especially how they are trying to trick everyone with false advertisement into buying this. Look it up on YouTube. Don't trust the shill media. Watch the negative videos about this game and you will see the truth. Long live Joel and RIP to The Last of Us franchise.
173) THIS REVIEW HAS SPOILERS,"The gratest videogame descepcion",Yeah you must think is so exagereted, but this time Naughty Dog screwd a AMAZING videogame saga,TLoU 1 is a great game, but this crap doesnt deserve the name of TLoU, they just get rid of Joel killing him, faster than a rooster sings, this game disapointed me and hundreds of thousands of more people, absolute sh*t, also the ellie character desingn was ugly, but the mechanics are great, that is something i must admit, also is boring, with awful writing, and repetitive.,,The community deserve something better.
174) They took the wrong way with the story, doing everything they can to shock us and make fans angry. As a game it does not work. The game tries so much to be poetic and all that cringy stuff. But to be frank this game is not fun, and I don't recommend this game unless you want 20+ hours of depression and boredom.
175) This game is absolutely horrible, a pathetic excuse for a sequel. I decided to give it a chance and ignore the criticism and drama, but no, they’re absolutely right! Killing joel was the worst possible thing they could do, I don’t even know why I kept playing after that moment.
176) Terrible game, easily one of the worst games i have ever played. Do not buy this garbage.
177) The game is shït.,....................................................,Period.
178) LGBT feminine PlayStation-only gay "exclusive" which is more an interactive movie than a game
179) They took all the beauty of what made the first game and tortured it as they tortured Joel at the beginning of the game, and Ellie through the rest of it. There's no redeeming aspect to this game. Complete garbage, zero payoff, not even art. Made me feel nothing but ripped off and sad. They had so much potential with this game, for even a franchise in the future with even games, but there's no way I'll ever be buying a last of us sequel again.
180) Life hack: How to quickly kill the main character of the first part. Genius!
181) This game was made to please sjw's screw this the writing was like a fan fic you find on tumlr
182) i know this might get deleted due to them deleting alot of negative reviews to help themesleves but the story sucked the graphics look beautiful but it was lazy story writting and abby in my opinion sucked we should of had the option to drow. her or not
183) A sequel that promised to honor fan-loved characters of the first game and create a captivating story, instead it spit on the premise of the first game to create a clichê revenge plot, created new characters that you're supposed to like but they come off as boring at best and infuriating at worst.,The reason that for me it's a 0/10 is because the game fails at giving the only thing i cared about when i bought it, the story about
184) Complete waste of money. To everyone - do not buy this dumpster fire forced agenda game. **** story, clunky game mechanics.
185) what a waste of time and money , complete dog poop  , never again naughty dog
186) Good gameplay but the story is by far the worst a video game offered you in the last decade. It just does not fit anywhere into the story they ve created in the first part and all the forced diversity feels like a  slap into the face, because they had their priorities like diversity > good storytelling to create this game.
187) Absolute **** story... I thought it was gonna be a good second chapter but I totally regret saying that. After that dickhead abby killed the hero named Joel they completely ruined it... nice one naughty dog by completely ruining your sequel....
188) I really didnt like it at all the story made me want to sleep like really im confined and i gotta play a story based game with a **** story then its my fault cause im a homophobe ? Seriously days gone did a way better job than this
189) Great looking game, but EVERY STEP OF THE WAY the story misses the point of what made the original so great. Can't remember the last time I was this disappointed by a game
190) They know what they did,Half assed story Having us play as Abby with Joel's at the beginning made me not care for her character what so ever and honestly ruined Abby's story bucause it made me not care about her character or story
191) the badest game in history when i see this graphic and fabule i want to puke, i want to **** on box of this game
192) This is a one falta of respect of publickfjruFirodieueieueyhrjejeigd2ugxug3fuh3fh8fhi3fhñdwdhodhwlwkfjruryeueuwuejehrhrhrjfjfhebehe7hwuhxr7hrcuhcryrfhrchx7h8sohqdecijecibcdcecevenocjiefei
193) Metacritic rating of 9.3???  Are you Joking?  This game is utter trash and completely destroys the first game. All the hype, the time spent waiting for this hot garbage!!!  I played through the first game, an absolute masterpiece, no less than 10 times. This game, I couldn’t get it over fast enough. It was brutal playing as the enemy for far too long. Killing Joel?  Ruining everything you built in the first game?  I’ve never been so disappointed with a sequel to a game I loved so much like I was with TLOU2. I honestly wish I had never played this trash a$$ game
194) First problem killing **** 2nd problem i have to play some parts of the game with the one who killed ****,3rd problem in the last **** did not kill that who killed **** . Me personally i would GUT that abby
195) The game is not that bad but the story is so ... bad i would give the game a solid 5 but because of the story i can't give more than 0
196) Literally all the aspect of the game are good except for the storyline. Which is like the 60% of the "game. So why I'm giving 0 you might ask. The answer is very simple, and it does not only concern the ground level plot and how it is awfully slammed inside the game chronologically speaking, but even all the terrible actions that Naughty Dog and Sony made when the leaks came out. And most importantly, WHY all the leaks came out in the first place. I can not come up with a worst scenario possible when i think of the release on this game.",,There is no better way to sum it up
197) **** score for **** game.They litteraly destroyed their own fanbase.End of discussion.
198) I was just really disappointed with the story.  They could not decide if they want you to like elie or not and it just ruined the other game for me too
199) I can proudly say it "subverted my expectations" to the point where I no longer want to play anything directed or written by Neil Druckmann. I dont give a **** about the LGBTQ community representation, I just think the characters were either inconsistent or boring. Oh and the plot is entirely stupid and visibly had no revision by anyone whatsoever cough cough bruce straley
200) The problem is that in this sequel the game the writers used too many "dramatic deaths" of main characters trying (unsuccessfully) to make the game more appealing to the general public. While doing this they simply destroyed the main story and betrayed the plot of the first videogame. Killing characters is not the only way to make a story "better"...,,El problema es que en esta secuela del juego los escritores utilizaron demasiadas "muertes dramáticas" de los personajes principales tratando sin éxito de hacer el juego más atractivo para el público en general. Al hacer esto, simplemente destruyeron la historia principal y traicionaron la historia del primer videojuego. Matar personajes no es la única forma de hacer una historia "mejor" ...
201) Garbage in any day it’s complete rubbish and more that that I would not say it her
202) I'll put it simply - this is one of the most remarkable games I have ever played. I just finished this game and I can't even find words to talk about it. I didn't know what to expect going in. I avoided spoilers, but I knew it had very mixed reactions.,,This game is a profound meditation on the consequences of violence and revenge. By the end I was reconsidering my thoughts and feelings about all the main characters. The lines between good guys and bad guys blurred until it disappeared. I never started liking Abby or hating Ellie, but it did make me feel sorry for both of them. They were both put on a path towards revenge by someone else and it cost them both nearly everything and everyone they hold dear. I can't imagine a better image for that than to show Ellie coming home to the empty house.,,The Last of US was an amazing step forward for narrative in video games, but this one puts that to shame. This masterpiece may very well be the best storytelling in gaming, period.
203) Why all this **** All this wreat graphics used with a ****-story, i m really not happy, i m going  to sell my copy to anyone want
204) I regret wasting my money on this game,this is just bad l don't know why they did this bad character development,,bad story they just wreck the whole series
205) The worst game ever it’s not fun and it’s really bad for me and it’s really not that good and it’s really a **** the last of us to the best of the year and the year we have a lot of time and I have no time to get it to us or we could do it again and we have no problem we have to have the kids together and we can make a decision on how you do it and it’s just a matter fact it’s really really fun I don’t know why I
206) Naught Dog managed to ruin a great game. Bad storyline, terrible characters, no positive point saves this game from disaster.,If you don't want to spoil the good impressions of the first part of TLOU don't play this crap.
207) I learned a variable lesson today, always look at reviews, this game left me with a bad taste in my mouth and was unpleasurable to play at certain moments which made me not want to play and complete the game, but I had to see if this game had any good storytelling which it failed to show.
208) At first they kill Joel and then the whole game rotates around us finding Abby who killed Joel and getting revenge but then they force you to play with Abby even tho you want her dead and THEN they force you to fight Ellie with Abby which happens and Abby gets away with killing Jesse so you go AGAIN to try and find her and kill her to get it over with so at the last scene as she was taking her last breath Ellie let her go SO WHY DID YOU GO AFTER HER IN THE FIRST PLACE the game literally had nothing that makes sense nothing was achieved but Ellie losing her fingers and friends along the way terrible game
209) What a let-down. Too much hype for a cringe story that doesn't make sense at all.,If it's a stand-alone game maybe I'll give it 6. However, as a direct sequel for the legendary last of us part 1 -- this is just a total let down.
210) While the gameplay mechanics and graphics are second to none, the writing is far from that.,To lazily write a story full of plot holes and contradictions for one of the most anticipated exclusives for Sony, you have to either be bold or ignorant.
211) I would accept Abby's tragedy if it (the tragedy and Abby herself) were revealed at least 10%. Everything is put through the ass and the plot is passed through the machine "here is our new character - love him because we said so. Don't like it? But how, she saves a girl and a boy! And look, she wants to be with Owen, but she can't! What a poor thing... Still not in love? But she had lost her father! How did she torture to death the man who saved her life? But he killed his FATHER!!! OOOOOOOOOO!!! There was such chemistry with him!!! How was it not? And the Zebra? ZEBRA ALSO!!!",When we start the game for Abby, we see how Danny is killed - one of her friends. Just 5 minutes later, she says, **** Danny, I would have shot him myself." Wow. This is empathy and empathy for the fact that your partner died. Mmmmm. Very cool.,When Lev and his sister ask Abby why SHE's helping them, she CAN't EVEN answer. She mumbles something like "well, that's the way it should be... uh... well, you don't deserve this fate... uuuuu" and that's it. No logic. It does these things because the game's creators made it so. And let's remember what Abby said in response to Ellie saying that her friend Dina was pregnant? Abby said, "okay!" and if it hadn'T been for the LION, Abby would have killed a pregnant Dinah and never experienced any feelings of regret or any other human emotion.,And about the terrorist organization - in a conversation with Owen, Abby says that people are to blame for joining the organization to "scars" and undermine roadblocks and kill people. In response to Owen that the Cicadas did the same thing, Abby says, "WELL, that's different!!! WE WERE NAIVE!!!!!". So when Abby and her friends kill people and blow up roadblocks, it's OKAY, but when others do it, it's bad. Cool. It is not a terrorist organization that even in the first part of the explosion in the city caused a stir, commotion and terror. What about the fact that GEOL saved Abby not just from death, but from a fate far worse than death. If it wasn't for Joel, Abby would have been eaten alive, and even if and fate is far worse than death. If it wasn't for Joel, Abby would have been eaten alive, and even if she wasn't, she would have been bitten 1000% and would have turned into one of the zombies, which is much worse, and throughout both games we saw how people preferred suicide instead of transformation. But Abby doesn't think for a second about not torturing Joel, but at least giving him A quick death. No, Oh nooooo. She tortures him with a special passion. When she is saved by 2 "scars", for some reason she decides to help them. Oh, Yes, let'S remember why. Because she HAD a DREAM! SLEEP, CARL! SHE JUST HAD A ****ING DREAM. And SO IMBUED that I went to the back of the hospital, almost died 2 times to get medicine. Wow. This is a change of character. The BEST the KILLER "SCARS" for four years, SUDDENLY after the sex scene and the DREAM becomes dobrodruzny. The sudden rescue of two scars is not justified by anything other than the line-by-line message of the creators "LOOK! ABBY'S GOOD!!! BETTER THAN ELLIE!!!!! LOVE ABBY!!!!!!!!!!"
212) Naughty dog threw In LGBTQ content in the game just to be more progressive. It doesn’t really make sense or fit in. Tell me naughty dog. How did that work for battlefield 5, ghost busters etc? I was very heart broken they ruined such a good game.
213) Tired mechanics, awful story. There isn't a likeable character in the game and normally I can over look bad writing for good gameplay but it's nothing games haven't done before but often executed better in other titles
214) I love TLOU, characters, story, and gameplay through and through. Naughty Dog has made an incredible achievement with the sequel. By the time the credits rolled I never wanted to see Ellie or Abby ever again. The tit for tat exchange whereby Abby only lives because she spared Ellie is weak, I don’t have a better way to say this. Forcing the player to understand the antagonist was a grueling and horrid experience. Abby’s own friends in game wish she would just leave and die before she ruins anymore lives. Then after the weak theater scene Ellie throws away what little life she has left. By the time the credits roll she is incapable of playing the guitar, losing the last link she shared with Joel, she is just a lost hopeless shell.
215) This game is just vile.,What was Naughty dog thinking when they released this!? Forcing you to play as a character that no one wanted. The story is just awful. Literally just a big diversity tick box. Avoid this trash!
216) If you're a fan of the first game, boy oh boy stay away from this. If you want to see one of your most beloved character get killed off in the first 2 hours with little play time with him than please buy, but if you're a sensible person don't. To think that people are blaming this piece of **** on homophobia is completely taking away from not only viable criticism, but, are taking away from true homophobic problems. Clearly if this was just due to homophobia, not many of these critics played the dlc of the first game. Stop with this nonsense. The graphics were beautiful and the game play itself was mediocre. There is no satisfaction at the end after you let Joel's killer walk away, and there is absolutely NO satisfaction playing as Abby who you truly don't connect with at all and genuinely don't give a single **** about. The writing was lazy making Joel act completely out of character leading to his death, and just all in all this game sucked. It is sad to see critics blame hate on the fact that there is LGBTQ+ characters in this game. **** you Naughty Dog.
217) The story of a sadistic delivery method. Never play a person who enjoyed "#Part1".
218) Just dont buy it. This game **** on everything you loved from the first game. Joel is murdered such a casual way very early in the game and then the half of the game we play as her murderer. At some point we're even trying to kill Ellie. Story is full of things that doesnt make sense, is terribly written, feel contrived alltogether. Skip this game. You'll hate that you've spent money for neil druckmann to take a dump on your memories.
219) Only good thing in this game is that Joel dies. I hated that stupid man as i hated every other characters. And that lesbian thing, its only tjere because its so cool to be gay these days.
220) Ruined the franchise for me personally. No intention of playing as anyone other than the original characters
221) Visually beautiful, beyond AAA quality, unfortunately that's the only thing good about The Last of Us 2.,,Naughty Dog took everything that was beloved about the 1st game and threw it all away. The father-daughter hard-earned relationship built up between Joel and Ellie? Gone. The caring, "I would do anything to save you (Ellie)", love that Joel had to protect Ellie? Gone.,,Joel *is* one of the main characters of The Last of Us (and my favorite) and ND kills him off in a lazy cutscene that is so ridiculous and unbelievable you wonder how lazy Neil Druckmann got. Joel (and Ellie) have taken down hundreds of Infected and encountered disturbed Humans (like the Cannibals) in Part 1. Joel and Tommy (his brother) have seen all manner of corrupted people, so there's ZERO chance Joel would just roll into the WLF facility, unguarded and let himself get captured (and then killed in a cutscene). Awful.,,The worst part is that he dies by the hand of basically the child of a random NPC you kill in Part 1. Just a grunt. But they try and make Abby's story "meaningful", except NO ONE asked or cared about wanting to play the daughter of a random Firefly NPC. Abby's story and the WLF's feels like filler / junk, and you're *forced* to spend hours (a good 40% of the game?) playing this terrible side character.,,Then you're forced as the player to try and fight and kill Ellie (the other main character), as Abby. WTH?! Sure it sounds "novel" but as a player and longtime fan of Part 1, disregarding your main 2 characters Joel and Ellie, and trying to play through this game as Abby (part of the enemies in this universe) is disappointing and I hated every second of it.,,Again, *no one* wanted this.,,And in the end, this was just a story about Hate, Anger and Revenge. And when it failed, try revenge again, and again, and again.,,The Last of Us Part 2 has no soul, no heart. Beautiful and brutal, but a terrible story and disappointing character development for the main characters that everyone cared about in part 1. Avoid at all costs.
222) The game isn't nearly as good as the first one. Joels death was cruel and people aren't complaining about that he died, they are complaining about the way he died. They advertised Joel in their trailers and he died 2 hours in. Meanwhile Abby was barely shown in the trailer and you are forced to play a character you hate for about 10 hours. I call this false advertIsement. The flashback scenes are really out of place and feels like they just edited them in, in the last second. The characters that die, barely get mentioned after they die. It is like they forgot that they ever existed. They are trying to make the player like abby and feel bad for her but it really isn't working at all. The ending was horrible, I tought FINALLY ABBY IS GOING TO DIE... but no. She gets to live after she bit ellies fingers. The reason to why she got to live was because Ellie got a flashback about Joel. That's literally the reason..
223) The story and pacing is terrible and they even did false advertising,It butchers the personalities of the characters like Joel and Ellie as well
224) Literally all the aspect of the game are good except for the storyline. Which is like the 60% of the game. So why I'm giving 0 you might ask. The answer is very simple, and it does not only concern the ground level plot and how it is awfully slammed inside the game chronologically speaking, but even all the terrible actions that Naughty Dog and Sony made when the leaks came out. And most importantly, WHY all the leaks came out in the first place. I can not come up with a worst scenario possible when i think of the release on this game.
225) This is the most pretentious unlikable game ever made. It's not fun but instead actively uncomfortable
226) Half of the game you play the villian, and than no happy end? WTF? And waaay too much SJW stuff. Totaly kills the gameplay
227) I hate the story. Very poor writing. I guess the people behind this game didn't understand why we all love the first (and only) game. I pretend Part 2 never existed. It ruins the incredible good first (and only) game.,,Edit: i forgot to mention that they lied in the trailer. [Link omitted per site rules]
228) Game is trash. Abby's a **** villain. Can't believe the game force me to play as the **** Game is literally trying to make u like her and the only people who like this game are twitter and half of reddit. Masterpiece my ass
229) First of all, i would like to thank people on naughty dog's team. Everything in the game is very pleasant and we see a lot of effort in.,But Neil Drunckmann, that plot ? WTF, seems like a teenage trash horror movie drama queen game !,Abby is the worst character ever create on the history, how do you think i want to play that terminator after what she did. Muh Revenge is bad, look and see who she is. She is dumb, looks like a stereotype with some problems about his body on highschool and just want to push iron. So many times, i wanted to stop because a lot of things didn't work. I'm just done, the worst sequel ever on the history ....
230) This was just a mess. This is what happens when people who have an agenda to push try to make a game.
231) ellie is lesbian, shemale kills joel, you have sex with that shemale, fireflies are all gay
232) I am very disappointed. The story was terrible, I didn't want to play as Abby. That should have been moved into a different game. Graphics were good. Again, terrible story
233) Really not liking this sequel, it's not to me or my partners taste at all. The game is boring and too short, nothing like the original game IMO.
234) Total disappointment after first game. Don't buy this, if you respect yourself.
235) Nothing compared with the first one. Instead of focusing on game plot, it was worried with a political agenda.
236) Lefty SJW gamer here. This game is an overlong, mishandled self-indulgent chore. Killing off Joel was a **** insult and the switch in the narrative was completely mishandled. Robbed the game of any sense of momentum. Absolutely hated my experience with it. An empty, cynical game in an empty, hopeless year. F uck you, Neil.
237) The game wasn't that good. Same copy paste cookie cutter gameplay from the last.
238) good gameplay,but the worst part is the plot you don't kill the most beloved character of the game and then make you control its killer trying to justify why she did that you can't just love a character after what she did and o god what they did during the trailer making us believe that joel was gonna be in the game but no at the end was another character that is not something that you do to your fans  but hey he killed her father yeah a medic that just took in a day the decision to kill ellie you don't  just do that as doctor there are more thing you can do as a doctor to develop a vaccine even if its possible to make one, if you are a fan I just recommend you to play it if you want to watch get a bad ending that is not satisfactory
239) **** game with **** SJW propaganda. Nice graphics though. Would never buy from Naughty Dog again.
240) Last of Us 2 is really bad the ending is terrible wouldn't recommend buying this game! Save your money.
241) I am very dissapointed I paid for this. Horrible story that ruined the series
242) The story really sucks but the graphics and combat look nice. ZERO 0 THIS..
243) people did not rate TLOU1 for its gameplay, but for the story and bonding. the 2nd iteration did not really enhance combat that much and the story is boring/stupid.,,GAMEPLAY,compared to many action games, the controls and gameplay is the definition of average. nothing interesting, you do not really look forward for fighting anyone or to just enjoy contorls. there is nothing challenging about it.,,STORY:,it had potential to be something, but the writers seem to believe "graphic violence = deep and real" which is simply not true with TLOU2. Also changing the previous protagonist's personality and how he behaves just to be able to kill him off for political agenda, then giving us a girl with mental issues and 0 personality development made me happy to have played it at a friend's instead of paying
244) Avoid this game at all costs if you enjoyed Part 1. This is a bastardization of the characters you knew and loved. There are long and boring areas and several hours with nothing to do at all except search hoping to advance the story. But trust me on this, you don't want to advance the story. You want to request a refund immediately.
245) I still can't believe what I've just finished. This game is a joke! It is a beautifully looking title, no questions there, but the story is unbearable. Falsely advertise title, so many plot holes. ridiculous decisions and EXTREMELY boring characters. Don't waste your money for a title and a company, which has no respect towards fans of the game. One of the biggest disappointments in the history of video games.
246) This game was a mistake. Just a waste of money. So boring and so bad. I couldn't even finish it.
247) All this game presents is violence against women. Trans, lesbian, or straight. Pregnant women get killed or threatened. The character Abby alone beats the ever living hell out of Ellie.,Ellie gets trapped and tossed about by a bunch burly men. Those same burly men beat the crap out of Abby. JOEL GETS BEAT WITH A GOD DAMN GOLF CLUB. That was the nail in the coffin for this game. Never again. Neil Druckman self inserts himself and even forces you to watch this beastly woman, Abby, have sex with her ex Owen.,Like WHY??? Not to mention the motion capture for that scene was DONE BY YOU NEIL. DISGUSTING.,This game is veiled in misogyny. Period.
248) repetivitive,annoying,long just to loot empty buildings,bad story,overrated,waste of my money
249) A bad story and too the joel dead was unnecessary but the graphics are the better of the ps4.
250) The last of us two destroyed everything good about the previous game in terms of story. Neil **** and retard dog disrespected Joel, Ellie and Tommy they deserved better than what they got. Abby is a terrible an unlikable character the story of the game is and this is putting it nicely complete and absolute worthless trash no one should ever buy this game it’s filth The only thing good about the game is the combat is slightly better than the first and the graphics are good other than that this game is ****
251) this story is so bad .. don't buy it or play it,i'm really disappointed for making this game like that
252) The complexity of the characters has been destroyed. Joel's character has devolved. Abby is one dimensional. Ellie is one dimensional. Just pass on the game. At some point the message has to be heard: you have to tell a good story to get people to buy your media. Loved LOU1. I'll have to find a way to scrub 2 to keep 1 great. :(
253) Shameful display of character and story ruining. The graphics and gameplay are nothing special compared to other games. The story, being the main part of this game, is a joke and garbage. neil **** definitely thought he would impress anita with this hot garbage. Never purchasing anything from this company again. Would give a negative score if possible.
254) 9 for the gameplay mechanics! 10 for world building. But for me, none of that matters without a great story, and the story here SUCKS big time!  They - meaning Mr. Druckman,  Made me play the antagonist for half of the entirety of the game! They tried to make Ellie the bad guy now, Then, as if it was not bad enough, at the ending made me FEEL bad about playing Ellie!  Even after Abby killed Joel, she had the happy ending while Ellie was left with nothing!  How could that even be called a "good" ending?? MAYBE if this was the first game, then I wouldn't be rooting for Ellie as much as I did.  But it isn't, this was PART 2! I have come to love Ellie and Joel, then this game just KILLED Joel at the onset, then at the end, made Ellie the antagonist at the end.  I couldn't give this the score critics gave after playing it through and more importantly, I DID NOT HAVE FUN at all playing as Abby. I wouldn't pre-order this game if I had known they would do this to Ellie and Joel, and the story just plain sucks.  It wasn't an experience worth $50.  I wasn't happy and contented in the end.
255) I am a big fan of the first The Last of Us. But in The Last of Us Part 2... a lot of strange things happen. The story is very boring and at the beginning Joel dies!!! I am very disappointed!!!
256) It has all the potential to be 10/10 but they ruined it
257) Why does this game have such high ratings from critics? It is not worthy them.
258) Absolutely horrid storyline. Deceitful and misleading trailers. Complete destruction of the franchise. 0/10
259) A phenomenal fiasco who can't live up to the first game. I couldn't stop comparing it to TLOU 1 while playing and got so disappointed. Killing off one major character for shock value just to "launch" that **** revenge story. No hope in this game, just anxiety and depression. The characters weren't loveable, even those we knew from the first game. Oh wait, the only characters I cared about were Tommy and Owen. Critics aren't objective about this game and it makes me sick. And no, this game is far from being a masterpiece with tons of plot holes. It's an okay game at best. And it's definitely not GOTY. Now no wonders why everyone on ND abandoned ship! Not buying any more games from them, as they keep trolling fans on social media instead of just taking criticism and make better games.
260) Joel was the only character I loved in the game. You make him die immediately... Here's your rating without carrying for anything else about the game
261) Worst game ,story is dull , illogical. Characters and their decisions are extremely stupid.
262) Why did they take him away from me and then try to force me to like/empathize with his killer? I played the last of us, not the "fireflies are us". I obviously empathized more with Ellie and Joel, why would you have me be okay with attacking them etc etc? could have been perfect but they ruined the ending, just ruined it. it's gameplay and first half deserve a point though, just for that I'll give them a 1/10
263) Protip: Naughty Dog.,,When your video game doesn't get a SINGLE negative review from a critic, that's a major red flag. It's indicative of the fact that no one is actually stupid enough to believe you didn't already pay them off to put you in the spotlight.,,As for the game itself, absolute trash. Let's take one of gaming's most beloved anti-heroes and have him die in the dumbest way possible to some politically-correct she-hulk, and... just... good lord. I don't even know how else to put it. I thought this game was supposed to be about zombies and surviving, and finding new communities, and rekindling lost relationships. Instead you turned it into political commentary.,,Also the ending of the game is a freakin joke. Like one final kick in the balls from a developer that hopefully 'wins' worst company of the year.,,Save your money. If you think this game is good because it has 10,000 more positive than negative, then you're clearly not thinking straight. This game wouldn't be worth purchasing unless it was 50 cents.
264) I cant wait to watch the next Spiderman movie so they can replace Peter Parker with a Trans-woman.,i finished Playing TLOU 1 and Jumped immediately on TLOU 2. & let me say the graphics are phenomenon & the combat was next to none. but like many things that GO WOKE the story failed. Everything we loved about the first game was some how taken away? no wonder the development for this game was hell. and what happened to Ellie's face? My excitement for the game & future diminished substantially. ill screenshot my review in case it gets deleted.
265) The absolutely garbage story killed the whole game and its really sad to see that...
266) A strange game in which you have to follow uncomfortable and uniform orders while spending time and money.
267) My main question, what I spent my money on, is like the first part of the last of us, only with good graphics and physics and the most banal and boring plot, the artificial intelligence remained at the level of 2013, but the gameplay is the first part, what else am I I can say they don't remember the characters at all, they are boring, as if no one understood them what I remember in this game let me think that there is nothing terrible
268) verry suck,bad story, make joel disrespect,everything is just a mess with me,aloso have destory the first part of game
269) This has got to be the most boring and un-original game that I have ever played.
270) Bad story bad story everything was good in this game gone.. why ..!? For who...!!
271) A game rife with gender and identity politics is the most despicable thing to ruin an esteemed franchise. The gameplay is boring and the storyline and plot is unappealing.
272) After the end of the first part, I felt the finished story, so I didn't think there would be a second part. At the time of the announcement of the game in 2016, i was still delighted with this, and waited for the release of the game, periodically replaying the first part. knowing how they like to post various rumors, I avoided all information about the game in order to dive into the game on my own. In the first hours, I got an unexpected pain from the plot twist, but continued the game, I wanted to understand that everything was not done in vain, and everything has a logical development. Unfortunately, my hopes were dashed. The illogicality of actions began with the behavior of Joel, who changed in character and now trusts the first person who comes across and tells all the information about himself: where he lives, what he and his brother do, what their names are, although it is obvious that nobody in this world can no longer be trusted if you never knew him. As a result, the character of both Joel and Ellie changed. The supporting characters are just dummies, without an interesting story and any logical actions.,Especially pleased with the pregnant doctor, who has nothing to do and she went to fight in the last month, just delirium. Already now it is difficult for me to continue to write a review, with each written word I am more and more in pain from what continuation they made on the first game.
273) Game is sh!t wtf is going on why u killing my best character ? Why abby in there wtf
274) Absolute trash. The gameplay got a little better from the first one but that is where the improvements end. The reason it isn’t being received well is clearly because you tried shoving SJW woke
275) I’ll start with the positive then proceed with the negative.,,Positives-,,The graphics are excellent. I would slow down my gameplay just to take in the scenery.,,Negatives-,,The game play is repetitive with very few new enemy challenges.,,This game was delayed and still had bugs where people would spawn often right beside me.,,The characters you play don’t develop. They are mostly angry, bitter, and thoughtless, but for a few moments of humanity.,,You have no options to make decisions which makes it feel like your forced do things not in Ellie’s character. I would sit there and not press the button the game was indicating I press. Its the first time playing a game I thought, this is miserable. Unfortunately, it’s just a downward spiral for her character.,,Abby is an unlikeable angry person who cheats with a guy who’s girlfriend is pregnant. He’s an unlikeable POS too. Their whole group is unlikeable. Being forced to play her character was not fun. I rushed through her sections of the game which unfortunately is a huge part of the game. She does one good thing and I guess we are supposed to feel like she has been redeemed. Nope. Also her father is a unethical doctor who didn’t inform his patient he was going to kill her before being he put under anesthesia. Abby is an angry sociopath and her deceitful father got killed because of his own horrible decisions. Joel prevented Ellie’s murder.,,It was apparent early on revenge will take more than it gives. But that is the core of the story and repeatedly reinforced ad nauseam. This drives the plot to nowhere. Nothing was gained by the experience. We literally end with less family, less digits, less purpose than when we began which I understand is the point but what a disappointing experience. Its like GOT or the SW trilogy. When your ending is bad it ruins everything that comes before. I replayed the first game twice. This game has no replay value.,,We get the point. Revenge is bad.,,Red Dead Redemption 2 is an excellent game because the characters have story arcs. They change and develop and realize life doesn’t have to be misery. This game begins with misery, with some misery  in the middle, a blip of hope, then a strong miserable ending.,,In summation. Excellent job and creating a graphically beautiful game. Boo for releasing a game with bugs still in it even after a delay. It’s misery and depression with amazing graphics.
276) Rubbish game that megacritic high rates i guess is paid critics ! Never trust the company critics just trust the players cause we are the consumers and we have the experience that is truth and nothing but true and truth !! **** this game !! Joel death is one of it , and the ****ing in a video game is ok
277) Despite the beautiful graphics and the minor updates to gameplay since the first one, such as a dodge button that adds another element of timing to combat, and the new traversal methods (prone and jump),  this is linear story driven game, and so the story has to take precedence in any evaluation of it. Unfortunately, despite the brilliant technical work that Naughty Dog's team has accomplished, the narrative is where this game completely fails. As a standalone work, the story is poorly structured, predictable in all the worst ways, and bloated. However as a sequel to the Last of Us, it is simply insulting.,,Throughout this game, all three of the returning main characters from the Last of Us will be mutilated, disfigured, or unceremoniously killed. They will make choices that not only seem inconsistent with their characters from the previous game, but also inconsistent with their own motivations within this game. The supporting cast is a parade of forgettable new characters who are violently traumatized, or abruptly killed and discarded.,,The narrative structure is a mess of unnecessary flashbacks, flashbacks within flashbacks, pointless drama, and personal subplots that go nowhere. The story is blatantly designed to shift our sympathy towards our new protagonist, Abby, and her supporting cast. However, not only does Abby mutilate and kill our favorite characters from the first game, she is also a sadist who delights in the torture  and degradation of her enemies, expresses excitement at the idea of killing a pregnant woman, and has sex with her ex boyfriend who is married and has a baby on the way with Abby's other friend Mel. These acts make her completely unlikable, and make the contrived "redemption arc" of her story feel unearned and unbelievable.,,All in all, this game is a boring, bloated slog, with characters that feel hollow and a plot that could best be described as laughably depressing. It destroys the protagonists that we know and love while offering nothing of value to replace them.
278) It makes me very sad that a TLOU part two, has been stained with changing everything iconic done by the previous title.,,That in no media they dared to say the name of one of the protagonists, since they knew that she would be responsible for all the aforementioned controversy. It is more than clear that those ten were not given in an honest way.,,A real shame, I wouldn't want that mistake to be repeated in any other game.
279) A sequel so bad it might ruin the original for you. Subverting expectations is not good storytelling. Its lazy storytelling.
280) If you want good game, it is perfect but if you want good story. You do not wait for that game. Cat eats fish story is better
281) The only thing this game has going for itself is the game-play mechanics and graphics. This game is extremely bad otherwise. The story is awful. There is no character development. Plot armor. Story > identity politics.
282) I was very excited to get this game after being a fan of the first one for years! I found the music and the visuals good although I feel not much has improved on the gameplay, which I felt could’ve been smoother. This game was more focused on story however. I’m usually quite lenient with this part because, hey, gamers want to have good gameplay. Since it was more story oriented, here it goes. First things first, the characters. The psychologies of characters are uncharacteristic to what they were in the first game and that made the dynamic cold and less engaging. The political view has narrowed down to the mentality of the 'popular' few and is therefore less universal and diverse. I think too many directors have watched The Walking Dead and maybe think that, that’s how peoples’s minds ought to work. You can’t help but feel that this tendency for the arthouse blues and constant sighed deliveries are the directors attempt at adding enigmatic depth when there really is none. It’s POST-APOCOLYPSE! Am I supposed to believe that Ellie would give up a steak sandwich to make an LGBT point or that there would be a droid-filled she-hulk with a gym pass? Which leads me to my next point. Glaring feminism and LGBT references do nothing for those movements. They just annoy fans who enjoy good stories. All that did was make characters colder and less relatable. Who chose Abby to be one of the protagonists??? I really had to grit my teeth to finish the second half of the game. The character sucks. Her self destructiveness, egoism, constant 'Are you ok? Are you ok?', most likely thrown in to endear her to the audience. POP PSYCHOLOGY. Read a Dostoyevsky book to see how real psychologists write, reason and discover pathological tendencies. Also Ellie’s constant attacks on Joel just seemed petty, egotistical and lacking in any sort of values. More relevant in the 'rich' western world than in the place she was inhabiting. Her warmth, loyalty and cheekiness from the first game were swallowed up by a much more base instinct and so she became less profound for me. I think in general this was another popular franchise that was derailed by a wave of these so called “reformers”. The problem for me is that they seem like petty tantrums that should be left at an appropriate age. If you want to succeed further start with a relatable and resonating storyline. Good ones tend to penetrate cultural differences. For example: I've recently watched a film called 'The City of God'. Great film. Now I'm not a little Brazilian kid, but I could resonate with feelings like power, jealousy, love, lust... The characters don't have to be white, straight or male. It’s a question of depth. Most reviewers quite frankly discredited themselves by telling would be buyers to ignore the tens of thousands of frustrated fans. We're not cattle to use for a quick financial gain. The insolence to then write articles to explain why the unhappy gamers are wrong is quite frankly outrageous. In my opinion there is nothing to attach to in this story and a mark of a good story is usually memorable characters. Are these though?
283) An absolute slap in the face to anyone who enjoyed the first game. Joel as a main character is treated with complete disrespect and the once gregarious and funny Ellie is reduced to a moody brat and lost all likability. The new characters are all terrible with cringeworthy dialogue and hamfisted backstories.,,The story is boring and preachy and the ending is lame and forgettable. The visuals and sound mean nothing when you can't even tell a coherent story.,,I'll never play another Neil Druckmann game again. You have lost a longtime fan.
284) They killed a good story. The real hook should be the characters, no just the graphics and sounds.,It would have been so easy to write something good... there is a good effort to do something bad here.
285) Honestly this is the worst story I've ever seen in my life, nothing makes sense.
286) not worth your time,story horrible,gameplay repetitive,the only thing that is good,are the visuals,anything else is just garbage
287) This game is Awful
288) This game looks beautiful but the story is just the worst. They clearly go out of there way to make their ideals known and totally takes away from the characters and feel of the last of us universe
289) People might be upset about what happened to the characters or about the trailers showing misleading or false story elements but I can guarantee you this game is worth playing. You might not like the story but it delivers a greatly important comment on revenge; on how it can be futile at best and destructive for everyone at worst. I hope that the review bombing doesn't scare other developers for taking risks in their storytelling because it's important that they do. Naughty Dog might've made some mistakes here and there but by encouraging others to follow in their footsteps we'll eventually get stories that are just as gripping and powerful but without the plot holes and other problems.
290) Its a good but unnecessary game. Really good graphics and all, but a really bad story.
291) Well, I guess this is what social justice does to a game, story, and characters completely ruined, for me the last of us was always about Joel finding a new daughter in Ellie and this is about pushing LGBT propaganda, thanks but no thanks.
292) This game is just plain awful from beginning to end
293) This is what you get when you try to use videogames to propagate your own ideologies.
294) Naughty Dog couldn't come up with something worthwhile telling.,TLoU 1 was conflicting and stayed with people because it asked questions which couldn't be answered easily. TLoU 2 askes you nothing, tells you nothing besides the comically obvious lesson that revenge and the cycle of violence are bad. And there in lies the actual failure of Naughty Dog: That the only use they could see for a Part II was exploring such absurdly boring topics. Which is why in contrast to the original this game will probably be forgotten quickly.
295) Let me be clear, the technical aspects of this game, the sound design and the soundtrack are fantastic. The gameplay hasn't changed much (or at all) from the previous game, but this isn't necessarily a negative as the first one had solid, even if unoriginal, mechanics.,,So why the 0/10?,,Well, there are many reasons for this. For starters, for a game that is heavily story/plot based, you would expect for the story to be good. Unfortunately, this is not only a huge disappointment, but a colossal middle finger to all the people who played the first game of the series and were moved by its main characters and their relationship. Instead, just in the very first act of the game Joel is brutally murdered in an absolutely naive and stupid way by a character that you barely know for 10 minutes, and then the game expects you to play as that new character as if nothing happened.,,Seriously?,,The ending is also silly and negates virtually everything that the storytellers were trying to preach.,,This is quite possibly the worst game sequel ever made. DO NOT BUY.,,Don't even get me started on the copyright strike abuse by MUSO (read: Sony).,,P.S. For the people of the "press" and fanboys shouting that all the negative reviews are from bots, trolls or homophobic people: the LGBT aspects of the game are completely irrelevant. No one is complaining about that. I don't give a crap that Ellie is a lesbian. We already knew that from the first game's DLC. It's the way the characters are treated and how the story ruined everything from the first one that is the issue. Get it, BBC, Forbes, The Guardian, etc.?
296) The story is atrocious, contrived, and manipulative. The characters don't act like they should. The gameplay is worse than ever. Stealth games from 20 years ago did better than this. The plot was built around trying to get "muh theme" but the whole thing is stupid and the theme contradicts itself. They force you to play as a character you hate, all while trying to trick you into liking this sadistic **** They never advertised that you'd play as this character, and demanded that reviewers don't mention that part of the plot. Textbook false advertising. I would have given it a 1 if it had crashed upon launch, so I wouldn't have had to suffer through the whole thing. Do not buy this game.
297) Terrible story with added Gender woke politics added into a zombie apocalypse. This game is laughable, and doesn’t even come close to being great like the first game was.
298) Had my review deleted too many times to bother with it again, all the **** you heard about it is true, thats what matters. Props for the production quality, the people who worked on the technical side of the game should stop wasting their considerable talents working for such garbage studio.
299) The story choices sucked, instead of using the already existing depth of the characters, they killed Joel and pushed aside Tommy, new characters have zero depth, Ellie was turned into a punk with anger issues, most of the dialogues and the acting that comes with them were cring and awkward  accept of Joel and Tommy, the game play was boring adn repetitive except few sequences, there was nothing original in terms of the game play, except the guitar thing, the puzzles ... were lame and so easy and they felt like fillers, the AI was terrible, you are literally side by side with the enemy yet they don't detect you, I didn't like the pacing of it, the music was not impressive, the graphics were awesome I'll give them that but we have already seen games with that level of detail such as DS, character design same **** from the old game, weapons and system management is exactly the same as the previous game, They didn't even explain the world conflict in any depth and I felt lost , it felt so one-dimensional. it was trash!,Waited seven years for this, what a joke!!
300) This game is a **** This game is nothing more than an insult to all the fans of The last of us apart from the fact that we waited 7 years for it to come out only the first week and the fans hate it and I also hate it because of how bad it is, its mediocre story, a lousy ending, and Abby as one of the worst characters, this game never existed.
301) its disappointing to see a great game be full of sjw it really is poorly done the plot is boring and characters are are dull i find A potatoe to be more interesting then this game
302) Terrible character and story development.  Was very excited for this game, but all the WTF developments makes me feel like I retroactively wasted my time playing the first game.
303) **** this game man. Ellie should have killed the **** seriously. Like why are you stopping you don't know anything about her ****ing choke her!
304) I really can't find the words to describe how disappointed I am with this game. I have never considered returning a game since I started playing video games in the year 2000, until I played last of us 2,I felt so ashamed playing this utter disappointment of a game. Imagine waiting 7 years for something, just for someone to throw up on your face, that's what I felt like playing this game.,After recently playing games such as red dead redemption 2 and god of war, playing his game felt like falling from a cliff and bumping your head and face 10 times until you hit the tarmac.,I really wish I could under what I saw in this game, I really wish this sad excuse of a game never existed.,Imagine working in Naughty dog for 7 years just to come up with a game like this. Sad. I feel bad for all the people working there that had different opinions but couldn't say much.
305) the only good about this game was the graphic, the gameplay so mediocore nothing new.,and for the biggest reason why people play this game because the story. there are  many post apocalyptic/zombie games that have equal or better graphic/gameplay than this.,now after you ruin the biggest aspect of this game , you expect people to have good review?,I dont think so dude...
306) It had very good graphic and gameplay,But an soap opera story. it was weak in making characters.  It couldn't handle the prestige of the characters from previous game,A very disappointment experience
307) What is the point of this game? Why did you choose to bring this franchise back after seven years to tell an empty story about revenge? Not to mention the plot holes. I'll just pretend that this game doesn't exist.
308) They fortgot to make a good story while pushing a political agenda. Too bad.
309) This game was an absolute disaster. I am really angry, give me back my money!
310) This game is a **** Is the copy of Resident Evil. There are the same kind of zombies. And the protagonist seems a ****
311) This game is like watching a wedding video after getting divorced. So much potential, and good ideas for the story but the execution failed. I don’t care AT ALL about Abby and her friends. Joel getting killed 2 hrs in by a daughter of a random NPC ? Really ? Joel and tommy would never reveal their names to armed strangers. And the ending makes no sense. Why kill so many people and risk your life to just give up. ?
312) Worst writing from ND in years; no surprise since the mayor talent is long gone by now. The gameplay is not innovative by any means either. The game is far from being a masterpiece, that's a fact, not an opinion: Part 2 cannot even dream about achieving the greatness of Part 1.,,So, don't be fooled by the name of the franchise: Part 1 was great thanks to former golden-era game director Bruce Straley; sheer genius not only on this franchise but all across the board of ND's most emblematic games as well.,,Sadly, he's now long gone from ND, a departure that has exposed the fraud behind the game direction of Part 2 big time.,,Add to the recipe the mayor lead talent who quit ND too due to unacceptable working conditions, and the consequences are easily predictable: ND's golden years are over, it has become a sinking ship of a studio.,,The only thing great about this game: the soundtrack, nothing more.
313) p.c is not the problem The game is stupid is the problem I wanted to end the game when I played as Abby and fight Ellie
314) The characters we know and love are gone. Story is horrible. This is an insult to fans of the first game. Do not buy it. Do not play it.
315) a once amazing game has been blasted by social justice ideals. The gameplay is okay somewhat but is deeply overwhelmed by the negativity and the messages forced to users by whoever think this is a good idea. Would never touch the franchise again.
316) Thank you for such an embarrassing story. Plz don't let Neil write the story of last of us part 3
317) Literally the worst game ever made. People in the UAE are lucky that this was never released to them, and that they never had to experience it. This game completely destroys everything that the first game accomplished, while presenting a messy story which will leave the player confused and irritated. Please Elon Musk, buy Naughty Dog and delete this game from the face of the planet. I don't consider this game canon, TLOU 1 is a master piece, and nothing will change that. The series should have been left a single parter.
318) Perfect graphic, nice gameplay and awesome controlling. However, after some period of time, the plot becomes really disgusting, I have no idea how any human can play it without hate, basically, the second part of this game just ruins everything it built in the first game and you just feel hatred and loathsome and physically want to get rid of this game and wash your hands.,So in total:,Graphic: 10/10,Gameplay: 7/10,Control (various control settings, feeling weapon, etc): 12/10,Story (the first part of this game): 4/10,Story (the second part of this game): -33/10,Total: 0/50 or 0/10
319) This game sucks. I'm a lesbian and I'm thrilled that ellie is a lesbian, but the story doesn't make sense and it was super disappointing because the first game was awesome. I just think this game tried too hard to do something no one asked for. If I wanted to watch horrible sad movies where the dog dies that is what I would do. This game is trash dont waste your time.  Its manipulative and just pisses you off.
320) What a lovely way to treat what was a great story, thanks for ruining what could of been great.
321) This game is an insult. Naughty Dog intentionally mislead the public in its advertising, and has delivered the GoT Season 8 of video game sequels. The characters you love are murdered, hobbled, and discarded. The ending is a joke. TLOU 2 punishes you for playing it and then judges you for the actions it forces you to take.
322) Bad story telling and generic combat. Bring nothing new to the table just famous because of the previous game
323) Worst story I have ever played. The game equivalent of Game of Thrones season 8.
324) Story is horrible. The pacing is bad. The characters are not interesting and there are so many plot holes. The story is basically ill-written
325) I was such a fan of the first last of us, i played through it seven times. Been waiting so long for this one and i am so disappointed... They could easily have made this game to be a spin off to the last of us, where you follow Abby and lev. For me the only characters i care about ar Joel and Ellie, nothing else matters. They kill Joel and the make Ellie very unlikeable. Not to mension all the political correctness garbage they have to put in the game.,The graphics are beautiful and the motion capture is awesome, but for me they have completely destroyed the franchise! i am out.
326) It is a bad gameplay bad story,Incredible stealth,Graphics is amazing Story is very bad,Worst ending ever for games
327) Doctrinaire bull **** I dont understand what I should enjoy from this game. Not because its philosophy is wrong, but because it is too childish. My eight yo nephew also can explain the cycle of vengence, and tell nmme it is wrong. This is a truism, not a big philosophical theory we must learn.
328) Killing joel in such a mindless way shows the developers have no clue what they are doing Neil did a terrible job writing this waste of 60 bucks wouldnt play even if it was a free ps plus game
329) Great job! F buried everything that game was meant to be right from the start, and i'm not talking about lesbianism, cause it doesn't matter. Character development - who cares, let's just tell a story that doesn't correspond to anything been said in the first part of the game, let's just show some action. Let's pretend it's open world game - who tf needs it in a game like this. Oooh, drama - not developed, we just say"drama", u repeat. F (-5)/10
330) This game was terrible. The way the story unfolded was **** Don't buy this piece of **** Screw Abby.
331) The game is trash,I played it till the end and its ****,I don’t recommend playing this game
332) pathetic game, straight up **** bad character development, meh gameplay (i mean there is no new mechanics in the gameplay ) the story is  horrible... its just bad i mean very bad.
333) I hated this game the agenda that it pushes on us the bad writing. I loved the first game and straight up felt betrayed by naughty dog
334) Such a let down, its hard to convey the dissapointment via text without sounding like a fanboy. Almost wish the game only used new charactors in the same world with a completly seperate revenge story.
335) The second part of the game absolutely ruined the first part. The change made it feel like a story I wanted to play had become a story I was forced to play. There's a reason you don't see this trick in movies and novels because it ruins the whole purpose of getting in involved in the narrative. What awful game design to get a player invested in something for numerous hours and then just ruin it. What a waste of a brilliant IP.
336) I was never so disappointed with a game as I am with The Last of Us Part ii. The game falls flat on the face in the story department and as the story is what the game is all about therefore I don't recommend it to anyone who cares about characters! The waste of money in comparison to the first part.
337) Playing game was nice and smooth until the Abby campaign beginned.. I mean what the f..? Who could ever thought that playing as person who killed Joel and Jesse will be good idea??? I've played Ellie campaign on one sit and can't make myself to go through second part of game, It's unplayable for me. Every cell of my body says don't play this game. I hate Abby so much, I don't care about her story, I wish only to see her dead. Not even mentioning that she looks like freaking gorilla. Reviewing as 0 because I'm not able to finish this game.
338) immoral, stupid script. ridiculous direction. the game has a huge budget, and it can be seen (the graphics are impressive) funny attempts to tell "serious topics" without knowing how to do it. I was a fan of the studio, but that's too bad.
339) Fraudulent publicity, chaotic plot, bad character of creative director, disrespect for players
340) This review contains spoilers. The way Naughty Dog treated Joel in this game is a total disrespect and spit in the face of Joel fans. Possibly the dumbest way to kill such a beloved character and PlayStation icon. Worst game of this year and of all time. I will recommend everyone not to buy it and waste $60 on this hot trash. Play it for free next year on PS Plus. Collapse
341) This is a stupid game with a lousy story, and dont say amazing graphics i have played way better looking games on a PC the plot is as bad as call of duty infinte warfare , the concept of this is hey nathan drake killed a mercenary so lets make the mercenaries daughter kill drake.  Thats the stupidity of this plot and please dont listen to these ign , verge all these big ass companies bc they are not invested in the game as us the real consumers/gamers, for them they play it objectively and give a review then dont care a little about the emptional aspects , save money dont buy it or buy it used
342) All relationships are based  on trust. But the last of us part 2 is a fraud, a major lie. The promise To be reunited with characters that we loved in part 1 is a lie, the trailers are a lie... this is disrespectful. This is dishonest.    This game is a complete failure with a silly  story and a  bunch of clumsy characters. A really hollow and stupid game that glorify violence who is trying To denunce. Please i am a  an adult  and an enthousiastic fan of videogames. So please don't **** me. And please don't make me waste my time and money cause i don't deserve that.
343) Bad writing, the game uses its platform to teach you about lgbt instead of focusing on a proper story.
344) You just can't force the player to play the antagonist and show them that this antagonist is a good person, that's completely wrong.
345) U like The last of us? Do not play part 2! It thresh. naughtydog spit in your face!
346) It looks and sounds beautiful, theres no doubt about that. The reason why I give such a low score is beacause this is the biggest disappointment possible, this is not a sequel of the first game, rather a spin off that destroys the thing we all loved the most about the first game. TLOU 1 will still be my favorite game, if you want to play the sequel because you loved the first one, please, dont play it.
347) Considering how this franchise has done its best to nurture a relationship between its two main characters, this trainwreck of a game is a blatant slap in the face of the fans. The beautiful graphics can't make a bad written game enjoyable. It's such a shame...
348) worst game of the year. how could you deliberately make a false advertising and fake spoilers to make people think Joel was going to be in the game line in trailer when in reality he didn't even get 2-3 hours of screen time. Naughty Dog should be ashamed of themselves. And the story is atrocious.
349) A beautiful story told through the intricately designed gameplay, which makes your heart pounding loudly.  Both sides of the story ring true designed symmetrically and blow away. The hardest thing is to stop submitting to the violence.
350) such a disappointment despite the effort in visual and sound effects the story is so stupid and predictable and the ending so irritating
351) The Last of Us Part II is out of the context of what The Last of Us truly is.
352) Total trash... I would say the graphics are this game’s only saving grace, but even would be a lie... At first glance the graphics look good. Upon further inspection however, you’ll find that while the game does have good animations (I’ll give it that) the GI is a baked solution, that honestly looks dated. Speaking of dated, the polygon count/detail in The Last of Us Part 2 looks like it’s straight out of 2013. It really looks like a PS3 game wearing a current generation veneer.
353) After such a masterpiece from the the last of us, I never thought they could **** it up as badly as they did. This was one of my most anticipated games of this year but it turned into the most disappointing game of the last couple of years. Never again will I preorder anymore naughty dog games. Wait for the release and reviews from TRUSTED CRITICS and public reviews before buying.
354) Terrible revenge story that is in no way fulfilling in the end. Abby is a terrible character despite the game constantly trying to force players to empathize with her situation and actions.
355) I can't praise this game at all they ruined tlou for me thanks naughty dog I'll never support your games again.  The moment you need to put political views in a game is when you fail completely for me
356) Awesome graphics,details,gameplay... but for me, the main history really sucks.
357) technical excellence, but it all goes down the drain without a purpose. The problem is not the coldness and cruelty of that world, but the lack of purpose. Revenge for revenge is lost in this. There is no nobility or overcoming or an honorable quest and ascension. There is only the stupidity of two protagonists fighting each other in a bloody moral degradation. Understand: There is no use for technical excellence in an empty background. A game that leaves nothing at the end besides a bitter taste in the mouth and nothing to renew hope. They lost the chance to do something historic in order to be realistic. There are thousands of examples of descent overcoming, with self-knowledge and psychological maturity.
358) While admittedly the graphics and gameplay are engaging, the story of this game feels like its deliberately trying to make you hate the game. Games are an escape, a piece of entertainment to be enjoyed, especially as they can be a huge time investment compared to watching a movie for example. So while I get that not all stories need to be happy, or end nicely, a game needs to have an enjoyable story, and this game's story simply isn't fun or satisfying in a very deliberate manner. So while it's a shame you'll miss out on the graphics and gameplay of this game, the story will likely sour the experience to such a point that would make the overall experience really not worth it. You have been warned, proceed at your own peril.
359) I expect more. The real the last of us give only one chapter: the first the last uf us.
360) Story is trash... Gameplay is good and everything is fine without good story no mood to play game
361) Ok, graphics and the SFX in this game are the things that I can't say bad things about, I guess...,The game just free kill Joel, THE character of the game for a bad revenge. Imagine have a daughter and someone tries to kill her, you just kill this someone who has a daughter too and that daughter somehow discovery the location about your brother in the middle of an apocalypse 4 years later and kills you for just save your **** daughter. The game begins with this, and keep the entire story over this, that for me, isn't a good reason, come on, Joel just killed her father because him tried to kill Ellie. Btw, there’s strange moments in the end of the game, well, how the **** Tommy is alive? Man, you have a pregnant woman that was spanked and another one woman who was spanked too and has a broken arm to take a man who got a **** shot in the head to cross kilometers in a way with elevations and holes and probably enemies, how the **** they did that? Btw again, Tommy seems that just got alive to give a trash reason to keep the game on, "I know the Abby's location, come there and kill her! Have your revenge", man... just stay died and finish this trash game and know what? She just doesn't do it in the end because of “circle of revenge” isn't cool. When some important character dies, I really hope that be worth but in this game this doesn't happened and it’s so sad, so **** sad the chat between Ellie and Joel in the end of the game a thing that makes me think that if Abby doesn’t exists the game could be so better. Ellie's reaction about the truth, actually a little piece of the truth, is so exaggerated. Really that you probably stay away from Joel for 2 year because that? You made a show with this? Wow, cool.,Another point is, the gameplay is so repetitive, we do the same things in entire game, explore, kill some infected that aren't so much mechanics to do that, is almost the same thing ever, and the humans that doesn't make any **** difference between then.,The soundtrack is good, but nothing memorable. The SFX are perfect, is so good with everything, I guess. When you are upgrading your guns, you can see how good the SFX is in this game.,The Animation is another good point, without the bugs, the face reactions are really realistic, the grass and the looting animation too.,Overall, the few good things about this game aren't worth over the bad story, and that is it.
362) Graphics are great but the story is a complete joke, it feels soo forced, if you're a fan of the original avoid this game at all costs, you will be pissed off and not wanting to finish it. The best way I can explain it is like this, imagine you walked 30 miles to McDonald's but when you get there they have no food, then you walk home hungry and angry... that's The Last of Us 2
363) Terrible plot, repetitive gameplay, and unlikeable characters. Forgets any character development before the second game
364) Poor experience, always wanted to know how long until i beat the campaign and get rid of it.
365) This game unfortunately tried to re-write the first game... not for the better.,,Ellie was the best part of this game.,,Joel's death and showing him as a trusting person who is willing to help others is not true to his character and this game ruined everything that was great about the first one.,,I cant help but feel this game was more about virtue signalling then paying respect to the gamers who waiting years for this sequel.,,If I could give this a lower score I would.
366) I feel the game it’s not a sequel it’s disconnected from the previous i am soooo disappointedo
367) The story is a disaster. Gameplay is alright with cool animations. Only good is when I get to play the flashbacks with Joel and Ellie.
368) Zero Stars! Killed of Joel ? Total bs. Go play better games like horizon zero dawn, Spider-Man, god of war and ghost of Tsushima
369) The biggest attraction of the game was the fraternal love that developed between Joel and Ellie throughout the entire game until the end, that's why everyone liked it, and they repeated the game (I repeated the game 7 times) The worst decision was to kill Joel at the start of the game, and replace the fraternal love that developed in the first game with love crap at first sight lol. We ALL bought the game from Joel and Ellie. We expect dramatic scenes between Joel and Ellie and the brilliant idea was to kill him after 40min of gameplay. The story of TLOU 2 is a total rubbish which I am sure NO ONE will play the game 2 times, for the simple reason that the story is not enjoyable ... in the first game the vast majority played the campaign several times .. I doubt very much that anyone wants to play it a second time. Another point, all the other characters could have been dismembered or burned alive and we wouldn't have minded ... BECAUSE THERE WAS NO DEVELOPED ATTACHMENT. The only attachment we had was the Joel - Ellie relationship (who was even having a hard time, and they could have worked from there). They really should fire those who had the stupid idea to eliminate fraternal love and incorporate love without any attachment from users, I don't think they can work on a TLOU 3. Ah, good job taking Ellie's fingers off her so she could never play the guitar again, the only thing Joel left her.,it's a **** game of the year 2020, that is, ALL the games of this era can be scored 10/10 in graphs and gameplay easily, what really makes the difference is a good use of resources in terms of characters, story, narrative, dialogues, etc. 1. They forced the use of a character with whom we had no developed attachment. (IT WAS OBVIOUS THAT THE RESULT WOULD NOT BE GOOD.)2. We were tricked with the trailers, thinking Joel would be an accompanying character (Joel).3. The worst use of resources I have seen in years, should be ashamed to do this rubbish in so many years...Joel's death mismanaged, if only killed mid-game or given a "dignified" death and in the process "develop" attachment to Abby.For example: Playing with Ellie and Joel as Abby searches for Joel (and that way we are presented to Abby in a different way, ASI develops character attachment). But NOOOO Hahaha we'll have Abby kill one of the game's biggest resources at the first hour of play and then force you to play with Abby for 7 hours...that can go wrong?
370) Story sux so bad. character ruined and became idiot. game play same old nothing new.
371) Just why, they had a winning formula, why change it. Another installment of ruining sequels.
372) The graphics are good, as is the shooting, but the story and characters are terrible.,after part 1, I thought that part 2 would be better at everything, but no. Only the graphics and the shooting, everything else got worse.,Especially Abby, Is it just awful when we see a normal female ontagonist? Isn't that pumped up something with black armpits?
373) NaughtyDog had to lie and cheat us in to buying this **** game.  Neil Druckmann sadly pushes his agenda soo hard that i completely lost all respect for the studio.   Way to go neil,  hows it feel to have ruined one of the greatest game titles sense metal gear???
374) Very nice graphics and detail for dated hardware that PS4 already is, gameplay is pretty good, as it's practically the same as the first part. But the plot, oh boi. They make you play as a character that you hate for half a game, and then you get an ending so unsatisfying it's hard to describe. This game deserves 4-5 for technical aspects alone, but not a point more, since the story is as **** as it gets.
375) Ruined it for me ,,Graphics 10/10,Gameplay 8/10,Story    0/10,I don’t know what are they thinking , there are so many loop holes some of them are not even noticed by any of you like how in the hell mel reached to aquarium just **** tell me.,I mean Abby struggle to reach to aquarium she faces scars , stalker’s and so much more but a pregnant lady reached like it was nothing And so many more things I don’t like about this game.
376) The storyline was basically all for nothing. You spent 20+ hours killing everyone that tried to stop you only to spare the one that made you go on a killing spree in the first place. The gameplay is basically the same, they did improve it with the whole jump button thing and the tall grass and all that but not what you would expect from a game they have had 6 years to work on. The enemies was slightly better, i liked how the humans you kill actually made interactions when it comes to tracking you down and try to kill you. The new infected the Shambler was just a downgrade, it was slow and goofy looking and very easy to kill making it less threataning compared to the clickers and stalkers. They tricked the fans thinking a loving character who was playable in the first part was actually going to come back, he did for about 20 minutes after getting killed by a person who is playable character who he saved 10 minutes earlier, making the players hate her already. I feel like they forgot what made us like the characters in the first game. Joel and Tommy were people who have survived long enough to understand never to trust a stranger ever, Joel went through being a hunter, smugglar yet he still trusted armed strangers who he never would from what we learned in the first game. Tommy giving them his name to the people who wanted to kill his brother which is just stupid and written poorly. Why did you not make two different campaign, one for Ellie and one for Abby, instead you threw both of them in one and had to jump from character to character which was very frustating making the player unintrested the fact that you had to make them play Abby moments before she kills Joel. It would be better to understand the characters instead of switching them both nor forcing you to play characters they dont like and if they did and wanted to know more they play her side of the story showing only her perspective. Sorry for the bad english, i loved the first game and after playing the second part i wished that i just looked at the spoilers because that would have saved me 60 dollars and 20 hours that i would find something to do more enjoyable then playing the thrash that is this game. Thanks for wasting my time.
377) graphics were absolutely stunning, probably the best I've actually seen on a console and some of the sound and audio in the game was really good.. unfortunately, the positives really end there. The story was absolutely abysmal, so forcefully PC that I actually physically cringed several times and by the end, I just honestly felt like I had wasted both my time and money on it. Actual shame on you Naughty Dog for this because you've butchered what was an absolutely amazing first game. I'd honestly rather you hadn't bothered making a sequel than making this. If anyone has read this far if you were a big fan of the first game like me don't waste your money on this trash because it taints your view of the first one. This is possibly the biggest disappointment I've ever seen in gaming.
378) I was so hyped for this game I thought it was good until they force you to play Abby for 10 hours and play through her story which i really didn't care about. Game mechanics was amazing... story for this game though was a big disappointment I would never play this game again worst story telling i have ever witnessed
379) it was just too depressing to play and they killed the best and only interesting character in the beginning of the game. The ending was also pointless, making the whole story futile.
380) Crap game with many oversights in storytelling and fallacies. Brutal and not an enjoyable experience for anyone, especially those who played the first.
381) Beautiful Graphics, beautiful animations and grade of details.,Its a pure joy to play this game until you see how bad the story is.,I avoided all trailers and review about this game. I also avoided all the hate comments.,But after a lot o playing it, i have to admit: The story is no fun and not interesting at all. It really sucks!,They made such bad decisions.. that really earned this bad metascore.,Its a real bummer.. it could have been the game of the year.. but now its the disappointment of the year.,The game would get more Stars, but i just wasnt even able to play it trough the end. And the worst signal: i dont care at all how the story continues. Because the Story is simply stupid, boring, frustrating. Yes.. all other thinks are amazing, but you cannot write such a bad story and come through with it.,And you can give us all the nice graphic that you want.. if the story is that stupid.. nothing can help.
382) Trashy game even for modern standards. Very hypocritical by pretending to not want to sexualize  women but it does, just in a different way. The only good thing are the graphics. This game needs to fail so other developers don't follow this trend.  I want my money back plus damages.
383) Boku no pico hentai has better Narrative and character development than this game
384) bad game, good graphics it's just the same zombie history. this don't deserve to be the game of the year.
385) This game is an insult. It’s pretentious, it’s buggy, it’s enamored with itself. They really despised the fact that we loved the characters they made, trying to force new narratives that you only just want to end. It was all cheap symbolism that meant absolutely nothing in the end. I would lie if I said I’m not mad. This is certainly not the worst game I’ve ever played, but this is definitely the game I hate the most. I can only hope to forget its existence. Part 2 was a mistake.
386) Bring back the magic of the first part. Give back my money that I spent on the game, give back my time!,Get Joel back!,This is a game of taunting him from the first part. He taught Ellie not to trust strangers, was a veteran of the world. He could not go to the center of the room and tell strangers his name in order to die from a golf club. From this moment on, you can no longer play!,This is a misunderstanding game!,Disappointment! disappointment!,Disappointment!
387) If you liked the first game don't try this crap. The LGBTQ agenda and complete lack of logic or values is ridiculous. All characters are stupid, dumbed down or useless. The gameplay is practically the same as in the first game, the writing is horrible, the story is crap, I thought I was reading a 13 year old fan fiction soap opera featuring Ellie while hitting puberty and a transexual cyborg created from Ronda Rousey and Arnold Swarzenegger.  What they did to Joel is so stupid, such a waste, such a... just **** The only enjoyable part is that you get to beat the crap out of both main characters at one point or the other. I spent half the game wishing that clickers ate them both. By the way, the zombies were just extras here, no real threat or really relevant in any way. Just stupid, crappy people with stupid crappy agendas and motivations and a team who consciously decided to ignore everything that made the first game awesome in order to add dysfunctional pregnant women, homosexual sex (yes, I mean Abby and Owen too... that was intended as two men... or two dogs in heat) and all around stupidity. They made every man in the story weak to try to make the woman seem strong and all they achieved was making them nonsensical, selfish and immature. Great job Naughty Dog. After waiting so much time to play it and as a huge fan of the first one I honestly wish this game didn't exist.,,Bottom line is... the only way to enjoy this game is if you don't think or if you never played the first. Any amount of brain will get in the way of enjoying this "jewel."
388) M'aiq thinks this is a great game with a fascinating story and superb gameplay
389) It really hurts to write that Naughty Dog really messed up with the last of us 2. So much potential was there regarding story, plot, gameplay but instead we just got something less than mediocre.
390) Everything about this games story is so bad that it shadows any positive things about this game. Plot is absolutely disappointing.
391) it inflicts measurable suffering and psychological trauma on anyone who even liked the story of The Last of us part 1 ( let alone fell in love with it like me).,The story is literally DOG **** (players will be FORCED to beat the **** out of all dogs).,THERE IS PLENTY WRONG WITH THIS murder frenzy revenge  quest APART FROM Joel's utterly DISGRACEFUL MURDER.,The game skilfully hacks, tortures, burns, skins, cripples,bludgeons, shoots,murders all of our beloved characters in the worst possible way,In the end after killing tens of thousands of uninvolved, unknowing people we are forced to let go of the main villian go to deliver the game'a noble message (REVENGE IS BAD),And as the last nail in the coffin it is ensured at the end that all those who survived by the skin of their  suffer irreparable damage in their relationships
392) The production and graphics were good, but the story was terrible.,a game in which you don't want to curse but you have no choice but to curse.,I don't understand why you're trying to teach me.
393) A colossal disappointment of unimaginative story telling that attempts to explore the consequences of anger/revenge at the kindergarten intellectual level while using x-rated violence and gore. I’ve honestly never been more insulted by the in game narrative choices made on my behalf. There are humans on this planet that behave like the characters in this game
394) Created an account specifically to write a review of this game.,Completely disappointed, the game feels more focused towards revenge and doesn’t give the same or even a better feeling than the first game. Never in my life I have been disappointed by a video game, I guess there is always a first for everything and this game takes the crown for a sequel of a disappointment.,One more thing to add up is the poor story relationship decision ruined the experience to me even more. I wish if I could forget that this sequel released and just wipe that image of it from my mind, they would have been better of ending it with the first game.
395) After an agonizing 5 year wait, I was pretty hyped to actually get to play this. Sadly, it failed to live up to any expectation I had. The story, is an absolute joke at best, almost like they fired the entire original team and hired a bunch of people who knew nothing of the game. The gameplay was mostly unchanged so thats a hit or miss depending on how you look at it. Graphics were pretty okay. This game was at the ABSOLUTE best, a disappointment and even an insult to fans. Definitely do yourself a favor and skip this one, not worth it in any aspect. It was almost criminal honestly.
396) who write the script?,Story 0/10 - stupid,Once you’ve finished it it literally has been for nothing! SAVE YOUR MONEY
397) Good graphics & good game mechanics, this game had everything to be the game of the year 2020 ..,but it has a lot of communist blurb and "progre" trash that damages and affects all the products ... it is a pity and a waste
398) Awful story. An insult to the previous game. unlikable characters.,,Naughty dog should be ashamed for the false advertising.
399) Worst AAA title on the ps4 in all its lifespan, while the gameplay and graphics and sound were 10/10 the story was bad. I dont care they killed of joel but they spent the rest of the game trying to get me to sympathize with abby who i didnt care for i barely know her i didnt want to know her and i felt they wanted to portray ellie as the bad guy. Also the main quest of the game is trying to get revenge on abby for killing joel but it doesnt even let you do that which makes the entire game pointless. I flat out hated the game after the ending. Overall because of the bad story i couldn't find myself enjoying the graphics or the gameplay or the music.
400) This is the WORST story I've ever seen. Image that someone kills your dad and you say "oh nvm I forgive him" then walk away.
401) This game is an insult for those who loved the first one. Killing the main character in the most stupid and introducing new awful characters with zero charisma is the best way to destroy a franchise.
402) Master piece of **** game that's all this is. Killed main characters, not even a good revenge story 7 years of waiting for this?
403) The only one who gets a happy ending is the villain, who killed Joel, Killed your friends and girlfriend. Lets just pretend the firts game is the only one, this sequel never existed... its a shame, first game was such a masterpiece
404) Where do I start At the beginning of the game the confrontation with Abby is so badly written to the point where it feels like a bad kpop fanfiction,Joel literally yells “Hey I’m Joel Miller the guy who killed your dad and ended the fireflies”,That wasn’t a way to kill off the main character but I mean it’s only the beginning The rest of the story it’s like “Joel did bad things so he deserved it”,You killed our main protagonist with such a nerve it feels like Neil didn’t play the first game,Character Development is so **** bad like you thrower is this characters we didn’t like and forced us to like them while we didn’t The story is so bad it’s like written by a 3 year old.Its like one of those revenge movies from the local TV station and at the end “Oh hey you killed all of those friends but let here live”,Maps and Gameplay are almost the same like the ones from the original game just they added more grass some exceptions are The ascent and Santa Barbara,The first game concentrated in zombies not the humans but in the sequel it’s like they forgot them,The first one concentrated in Zombies not the groups,In conclusion:It’s really bad and doesn’t deserved to be called a masterpiece Bonus minus points for marketing Joel as if he was in the actual game
405) I waited 7~ years imagining how joel’s story with Ellie would be like. I would give this game 0 stars if I could. I gotta admit the gameplay is good and the graphics are phenomenal. But it’s expected when you take 7 years to make a game with so much production hype and followers. This triple A title game is a political message rather than a game you would enjoy playing. Abby is the worst character created, her timing within the story is pure garbage. And they seemed to add along the way that she is trans, just to fit a ‘trans’ gaming audience. But why? Just because of the plot, I couldn’t enjoy the game, there was no drive no purpose for me to continue and hence the 0 star rating. The game is a waste of money, and the coders for the game have been more oppressed than any trans person I know. They had to watch the story writers Anal rape the game in front of their eyes. In conclusion, don’t buy this game ghost of tsushima is one to watch out for.
406) Complete failure after the first part. The game has become completely different. Playing for the negative character caused sickening reflexes, and I wanted to skip the secondary Abby's plot every minute. After finishing the story in the cinema, I dropped the game when I had to play Abby against Ellie.
407) a story with plot holes and forced characters without a doubt the biggest disappointment this year, I hoped it would be revolutionary, it was not, the development of the characters was very forced as well as the end, get better writers, in short a tremendous **** l.
408) Gameplay was good, storyline was disappointing. Not worth the 5 year wait. Characters where forgettable and too many obvious storylines.
409) This game had so much potential, and had amazing development, but instead we get the agenda fueled disaster that is this game.,I gave this game 6 hours, and I could not play it, it is obvious of the agenda that naughty dog is pushing, and that they do not care about the fans that played the original, every person that I have asked, that played this game, said it is disappointing and not memorable, the biggest regret I have is the money that I wished I could get back to buy something better crafted, naughty dog, you have let me down, and I will now be very cautious
410) poor story, poor design, poor narative. TLOU didnt need a second part. Dont get fooled by holywood tricks and productions. If a movie is bad, it will remain bad w/e the visuals and the production... same thing with tlou2... its just very very bad.
411) Improved gameplay from the first part. If you liked it in the first part, you like it here.,Ovesome grafics and animations.,The biggest minus is the plot. He kills everything. Constant luck or bad luck of the main characters. Love triangles here and there. Dramatic moments that look just ridiculous. The game has the city of Santa Barbara. And the game itself is like the Santa Barbara series.,The plot of this game killed a series. Thanks Nill Drackman.
412) Bad game, joel died in a bad way..,Not hating because joel died, but the writing and scene from joel died not like arthur morgan..,Do not buy this game until discount under $20,So monotone, because in the first last of us, joel have ellie company, but in part 2, ellie is so boring..,Gameplay is okay, just okay..
413) The game is awesome the graphics and the gamelplay are beautiful.,And obviusly the most important the story is incredible  very exciting, violent, really sad and EPIC.,it hurt me when joel died but i think that was very shocking and obviusly sad, but necesary because even he was the main character on the last of us 1, in the world of the last  of us everybody can die even the main caracter and that are very good the even the protagonists can die.,in conclusion the is beautiful and a master piece.
414) Pointless history Without the story the game means nothing. This game does have great visuals and great gameplay, the story just isn’t good and it tries too hard to make you feel sorry for people that you don’t want to feel sorry for, they just don´t care. Trying to make a complicated story and being a good game is not always a valid premise. Wasted talent. Unplayable game.
415) This game is a piece of sh*t, I'm not against the events of the story but the narrative is broken in every possible way. Even if you get it for free believe me it's not worth your time
416) I had high hope for this this game.,Expectations isn't always reality. Damn naughty Dog. Please don't make a part III,With the new crew of staff on board, don't make uncharted 5.
417) Basically what you would get if you plugged a controller into a week-old diaper that sat in the sun.,,Game ruins all the character-building from the first.
418) The game is really bad and is not worth buying. The number of plot holes rushed writing and lazy writing is insane. Each character is saved like 10 times of 10 different occasions which is just lazy writing to the max. I'm giving this game 0/10. The gameplay and graphics are nice but because this game like the last one is so heavily story-driven then it is only small factors compared to the big one. The story itself is under decent. A real push for political views and lazy plot. But because the last game was so good and so deep in its story and a joy to play every second of it and that this game was supposed to be the sequel? Then it drops from a 3-5/10 to a 0/10. This is a pathetic excuse for sequel especially for a game like the last one. It is lazy, stupid, and rushed. It is really sad to see. You would expect them to have made a really good game with the amount of time they had but they didn't and someone with their talent creating this game? There is no excuse for it. They just wanted the money. That is why I'm giving it 0/10. I know they can do a lot better but they choose to bring this game to the table. A lot of people have already covered many of the major faults within the game so will just go over the surface.
419) Amazing gameplay, nice looking graphics. But with such unsatisfying story line nothing there is enjoyable. After 2 hours of game I did not want to continue it. Just checked the ending on the internet to see if it will get better, but it does not. The game is far beyond recovery and nothing can make it better.
420) Complete left political trash. Not sure how else to put it. Ruined franchise due to liberal political agenda.
421) I immediately stopped playing when i played as abby i just don’t like the characters in this game
422) The most disappointed game ever,  the story is totally missed up . Abby is the worst character ever
423) This game is literally trash I've wanted my time on this trash game. It just let me down. Im so disappointed I thought it would be great but uhh it has destroyed my thoughts
424) It's nothing like the first game...the characters in this one are not as interesting as the first game...the story is TERRIBLE...waste of money
425) Unlike a lot of people, I've played the game before reviewing it. It's great. It improves upon the first game in every way and the story is a truly harrowing experience.
426) In terms of graphics, gameplay and other mechanics the game is great.,,But the story is just absolute garbage. Had to make myself finish the game, it is indeed that disgusting. There are just too many plot holes and the things that the characters were doing just didn't make any sense at all.,,The review made by Angry Joe pretty much sums it all up bit by bit. Go watch it and you'll see why exactly this game sucks so bad.
427) I really got disgusted when i saw how they killed the pregnant woman i felt it was unnecessary and brutal
428) Pure garbage! Not because of the social issues people are complaining about, I could care less about all that noise. The story of Ellie was complete on part 1, a story based on another part of the world or country would have been the move. Also the game is buggy and unplayable at times.
429) Running after a fashionable trend, the developers forgot about the plot-casting, which should move the plot to not degrade with great progression!  Yes, the graphics in the game are beautiful and detailed!  but you won’t leave it alone, the game is very lightweight even at a high level of difficulty it didn’t impress me, the mechanics of the game are also too primitive, I really looked forward to its evolution, but it didn’t work out, so my rating is only 3!
430) Total waste of money and time. A true recipe of how to ruin a great game. I wonder what they had in mind. Seems like a sick piece of activism that didn't care about tearing apart a good story just to try to force their point. Disappointed big time. What did the heck happen to Naughty Dog?
431) Worst game ever. This is the Social Justice Trash that filled with much political agenda. Do no waste your money to buy this trash, poor storytelling and poor plot!!!!
432) The story is bad and contradictory, the death of the main character, and the director is bad, the first part was better than him
433) Pushing political agendas in such a blatant way that completely ruins the game's narrative is absolutely disgusting. If this game's strongest point was it's gameplay maybe I'd consider tolerating it to some extent but most of us wanted to experience the story. If I could give it a lower rating than zero I would gladly.
434) The user reviews for this game are some of the most idiotic and brain dead I've ever seen. People saying it's too political are stupid as all hell, what exactly is political? There's a trans character who is absolutely not shoved in your face and.... minorities? Complaints about the story being bad are almost always related to one big spoiler that made many fans decide that if something you don't like happens in a story, it means its a bad story. However this is one of the best games I have ever played, the graphics are absolutely insane, all of the acting is perfect and you really believe in every character and side character. This is a game that wants to make its audience uncomfortable, something that few storytellers will do nowadays. This isn't another game that just has you mindlessly kill every faceless enemy in your path without consequence. Sure, you do have to slaughter just about everyone, but the game pretty readily shows you the consequences of your actions and that the enemies you kill are real humans. The Last of Us II has some of the most horrifying and simultaneously incredible shows of violence on a great scale I've seen in a video game, scenes that you walk through and think "Jesus, this is horrible and beautiful". The gameplay itself is much of the same from the first game but improved, stealth has more options and combat feels even more brutal. Less of the boring physics "puzzles" from the first game involving pallets and ladders. Anyone with an open mind and understanding of the most basic storytelling principles should ignore the 0/10 reviews, avoid the spoilers, and give this game a try. When I was done, I was really just left stunned and silent.
435) Probably one of the worst games I've played. Yes the story is bad and naughty dog has made a terrible decision. But alot of the problem is gameplay. The gun play feels like the same terrible 3rd person shooter that they've been doing. It feels like uncharted 1 still. Or even worse it feels like days gone
436) No innovation on the first game's gameplay repitition. Terrible writing and bizarre changes in characters personality.
437) This is the worst game that this company has ever made, a boring story with a boring character, the graphics are good, of course, and the physics are good too, but everything else is too bad
438) If your going to kill the main protagonist and force your player to play the villain might as well change the name of your game then calling it a part 2. Also this could have been stomached better if the player was given the choice to kill Abby in the end rather then forcing the story on them. Take some input from ghost of tsushima and stop treating players as stupid sheep that has to follow your script.
439) If you loved the TLOU, you will be very disappointed playing TLOU2.  You are not allowed to control the choices being made at critical points in the game.  The game takes control of your actions at those critical points and makes it feel more like an interactive movie than a game.  TLOU2 also forces you to feel something for characters that you don't give two sh*ts about.  The constant flash backs for those characters plus the inability to skip those scenes makes the game drag on in agony.  Lastly, the story being told came at the expense of dumbing down the original characters to the point that they were completely out of character.  There were so many plot holes that it gave me flash backs of the last season of GoT.  The ending just leaves you thinking "uh ok, really? what a waste of my time",,The graphics and game play was great, but in my humble opinion its not worth your time.  This game is a glorified over hyped polished turd.  I wanted to love this game so bad and gave it a lot of thought before posting this review.  The developers try so hard to manipulate how you feel in this game that it just comes across as deceptively cringy at best.  I strongly believe a game should let the player decide for themselves at critical moments in the storyline and have a choice to act and feel the way they interpret the story.  The Witcher3 is a great example of this choice given to the players at critical moments.
440) Even if the attention to detail is amazing in this game and the graphics are gorgeous for a ps4, the story was a huge letdown for me. Joel's death was anticipated from the first game, taking the fact that he basically butchered entire groups and some survivor would come to take revenge. The problem is that could've been done better than setting a game because a pointless npc from the first game died at the end. Abby's character is a problem in many ways:,1. a woman would not look like that in a million years without steroids treatment 2.everything she is doing is pure psychotic, and it represents that this character has seriously mental issues,3. Her companion, Lev(Lilly)  is annoying just because screams : I'm a boy not a girl, please accept me!  A good character is known for it's personality, not for sexuality. The last part with the rattlers is totally pointless : Ellie abandons it's girl for an old revenge story but when is about to kill abby she stopped because, joel wouldn't do the same thing, forgetting that we talk about a guy that butchered an entire military group to save her life.
441) I don’t want to put any spoilers in the rating. The only thing I’d like to say about the game is: the first part is still among the best games I’ve ever played on PC, dendy, sega, ps 1,2 etc. My feelings for the first part are completely opposite to the feelings about the second part. I don’t really care about all this lesbian and transsexual stuff. I don’t like it, but who cares what I like or not? The motto of the game is: “Who cares what you like”. The success of the first part is explained by the narrative and relationship between main characters. The view on the problem of “lesser evil” and readiness to sucrifice what you love in favour of the rest the people. The second part proposes us the possibility that despite all hatred one can find strength to forgive the opponent. It may work but not in the way it was realized. I don’t care about graphics and I don’t really care about gameplay but I do care about plot and storytelling. Zero out of ten for spoiling one of the best games.
442) Good graphic... that's it... Terrible story, a pathetic final... and the gameplay it's the same every single time
443) Garbage. Now I have to think about how to say it in 75 characters. Utter garbage? Feels cheap, outdated, story wtf, characters wtf....
444) This sequel has pissed me off so much that it's been the only thing I've had on my mind for the past week.,,It lives rent-free inside of my head and I **** can't stand it.,I wish I could just erase this piece of **** sequel from my memory and live in blissful ignorance i.e. believe that the story ended with the first game, that's it.,I know I'm late to the party, but this game was absolute drivel and was so ****ty that the stench (story) still lingers like an unwanted guest within my consciousness, even after a week.,And no, it is not because I'm homophobic and or transphobic; it just has the most stupidly **** paced, non-sensical story that I've had the displeasure of experiencing in recent memory.,>Characters act out of character all the **** time,>Pacing is utter dog ****,>Too much **** plot holes (inconsistencies),>Too many **** stupid and crazy coincidences,>Too many poorly introduced and written side-characters that I don't give a singular **** about,>Game tries so **** hard to make Abby a likable and relatable character, even though she's the most unlikable character in this entire **** game.,>Joel's death and the events leading up to it make no **** sense given the context,>The game itself is a drag to play and downright exhausting at times,>The game completely haphazardly hamfists the "REVENGE IS BAD, FORGIVENESS GOOD" narrative down my **** throat and not in a meaningful and or well-executed way.,BUT HEY!,Not all is bad, at least the game has great **** graphics, lighting, sound design and overall animation (especially facial animation).,But god damn, does this game **** on everything that I once loved about the original game.
445) Terrible part of a very atmospheric game. The atmosphere is crumbling by the reduced intelligence of the main and secondary heroes.
446) Bad and boring story and I hated the gay things in the game very much stop rowing our favorite characters
447) I had my freedom of speech banned 3 times, so I'm just going to write that this director's puppet deserves a 0 for following the advice of a paranoid against female beauty.
448) the game completely did not live up to expectations, and even deceived in the 2019 trailer, due to the fact that Joel is alive, although he died after 2 hours of playing
449) Look,  The plot, is just bad. Gameplay, Repetitive. Only Pros I'd give this game is the graphics. Graphics are amazing. But the plot is absolute Bull crap. Ellie's whole revenge story makes no sense and the way they killed joel off within 2 hours of the game is just stupid, wrong and horrible writting. First, The characters. Ellie acts like the freaking female version of sasuke uchiha throughout the whole game and it doesnt make anyone want to play as her. Dina doesnt even need to be in the story its just cringey teen love. Jesse was a decent character just to get freaking shot in the head 2 seconds within walking through a door. Tommy is Just.. ugh.. Joel doesnt even act like joel. After years of experience, you'd expect him to be smart enough to not trust strangers, especially in this apocalyptic world. Speaking of apocalyptic world, The whole god damn story is all about Ellie getting revenge on the people that killed joel, Massacring All Wlf, And Scars that stand in her way. So the infected play no god damn role in this game. The fights are useless and not fun at all. Okay back to the characters. Abby, The she hulk herself. They have the audacity to make us play as one of the people that killed our most beloved character, thinking that we'd sympathize for her. No, We wont.,All the other people are just nobodies that we dont care about. Okay now lets get into depth here.,Yes, i get what they tried to do, A person we do not know kills one of our beloved characters because of what he did in the past and she wanted revenge. That was a semi good idea. But the WAY they did it was absolute Dog doodoo. The pacing is horrible, the characters are not likeable, the gameplay is repetitive, And its just downright BAD. We lived for 7 years knowing that ellie and joel has always been the good ones (Not good people, but the people that we know and love) But in this game they try to FORCE you to hate them, and sympathize for Abby cause of what joel did. That just isnt smart at all.
450) I expected more ! very sad how develop the characters and terrible history, cant finished it
451) The problem with this game isn't only the obvious agenda that Neil has admittedly chosen to push, but rather it is that the writers have complete disregard for the characters they have constructed so far. Druckmann tries to evolve his cast in ways that feel unlike their counterparts in the first game and all too often tries to force an inorganic narrative. This franchise was known for its emotional and complex storytelling, and the story transcended identity politics. This latest edition utterly falls completely flat. I have been a naughty dog fan since the crash bandicoot days, but after seeing how little talent Neil and the ND remnants (most of the talent has left or was forced out) have for crafting compelling and coherent stories, I am going to be extremely weary of ND titles going forward. RIP to what had the makings of being an all-time great series and to the ND studio itself. At least the game is very visually appealing, but that’s all I can say of it.
452) The problem with the last of us 2 is that they killed the most beloved character that is Joel. And not only did Joel get killed, but they make you play as the character that kills him. And to top it off that ending was pure **** All that fighting and revenge, just to let the main person that kill Joel walk free Then metastatic giving good reviews like if they are the main player fan base.
453) Wow... is amazing how long everybody waited for this game, about 7 years to make something great and special however they basically kill your hopes and dreams for what was advertised and said even by their own actors and ND itself, well they flush their saga and all that was special on the first game, I’m very disappointed for what fans got after many years and hopefully Sony will be smart enough to not support another TLOU game, how bad and how sad tbh. I was expecting something better and more special. Guess my expectations were too high for their agenda.
454) The gameplay and graphics are ok but the plot line is laughable at best - serious believability and consistency issues in writing. Don't buy.
455) DO NOT BUY THIS GAME.,NaughtyDog lied in the trailers about Joel, such deceit I've never seen before from any company. The whole idea of playing 10+ hours for the person you're gonna hate from the beginning and having to kill dozens of people just to spare the worst person in the end is complete nonsense, and even worse is that so it's badly told nonsense.
456) This game had tremendous potential to be really great, unfortunately Naughty Dog is washed up these days and fired all their competent writers, Sad. It took me ages just to finish this game because of how boring it was.
457) New woke story, on the same old engine. I’m truly sorry I bought the new game, could have just played the old one all over again and had a better gaming experience.,,Playing games is about feeling like you can be one of the characters. Recognition of self. Feeling for the characters. I have no issues with gay people, interracial sex, middle east religions or any of it. Its just too far away to feel for them. And all they changed from the old game was the story... really.. 7 years... wtf.
458) (English is not my first language) I bought this game just for the plot...because the gameplay is boring, after 8 years the same old **** Still, back then the gameplay wasn't that great....0 improvement on the AI, they just copy-paste Ellie's code from the first game. Talking about the animations probably the best I have ever seen in a video game. However, I don't play games to watch 6 hours of cutscenes with cool animations, you know there is something called movies/ tv-shows for that.  The plot is soo pathetic(I don't care about Joel's death or Abby super muscles)... complete sequences of random dramatic events just to show how bad the revenge is...Oh yeah I know it's revenge and violence circle, with Abby and Ellie trapped in it...OMG, it's soo original, I have never read or played a game with revenge circle as plot(sarcasm). I think this plot is perfect for people with low IQ, probably they have never used their brain or read a book in their life.., and playing a game with this type fo plot make them feel somehow intellectuals.
459) Horrible story writing, bad pacing of events, and poorly written characters that you are forced to play as for many hours if you want to progress and finish the game.,its sad to see such talent in creating the world, graphics, animations, and combat, get overshadowed by Neil's ego to force his ideas, views, and beliefs on everyone else by this horrendously written story, and the failed attempt to make you like, and care for a character that is so bad-written.,it saddens me that instead of the feeling of awe, fascination, and impact, that i felt after finishing the first game, the only feeling that this game left me with after finishing it, is that "the last of us" should have never gotten a sequel.
460) The **** of the year.,The **** of the year.,The **** of the year.,The **** of the year.,The **** of the year.
461) **** Joel is killed off in the first hour and then we get to play as the roided out she-beast that killed him. Then to top it off, Ellie has a chance to kill she-beast and her little girl minion and doesn't because revenge is bad.  Hey Druckman, why wasn't revenge bad when she was killing Joel?    **** game, waited 7 years after the masterpiece that was the first game just to want to kill myself for having wasted money on this ****
462) yikes, gameplay copy&paste from first game, boring game, forgettable characters, story is trash in a story driven game. music is depressing. literally theres no redeeming qualities in this game,This game came out from NAUGHTY DOG?? Shameful
463) I just want to share my frustration on this game. Killing my favorite character just like that is plain crap. Then after half the game why will I play the character who killed the main character from the previous game. The trailer misled me replaced by Jesse.. The worst game I played this year. I hate it
464) Tolerance in post-apocalypse,how to destroy a franchise,story & storytelling = 0/10,gameplay = 8/10,graphics =9/10,but the last of us franchise is all about the story ... now It’s a SJW game
465) I haven't played the game, dont want to, only watched a gameplay. I love the lgbtq representation and diversity in the game but I feel like most of it was unnecessary to the plot line? like it felt forced almost. Also, as a player of the game, and human being, seeing a character i was so attached with from the first game die the most brutal way possible was heartbreaking and disappointing. I think it's very obvious that joel's death was very messy and makes no sense at all. Almost like they wanted to get over with him. I hated the game with a passion. The idea was there but i the execution was horrible. it had potential of being a diverse, have a strong storyline that gives you closure, and emotional. But instead it was forced, and horrible. I really do hope next time, they read what the fans want and not what the critics want.
466) You can even wind up grades, but nothing will help to justify this trash.,Great visual and music, but plot the worst thing that could happen to this game and SJW everyone tired of seeing this.
467) Wow really the worst game of 2020 full of SJW garbage just how do you go from one of the best games of all time to this huge turd of a game.
468) I don't know what director think himself The game just about revenge and the director  take 25 hours of my time and finally nothing happened and the game finish without any purpose.
469) Worst game of the decade. neil **** really **** up the story. ABSOLUTELY AVOID!!
470) I couldn't finish playing after they killed off the character I was waiting 7 years to play. Not sure how come they created a story line that panders to the vocal minority instead of what real players want. It's funny how it got a high score, since the reviewers want to continue to receive free stuff (access media)
471) Worst sequel to the LEGENDARY gamе, no need to spend money on this game if you have at least a little intelligence.
472) The worst game of century.,А great IP, destroyed by Druckmann.,Just dont play this peace of code, its so bad.
473) Honestly, one of the worst game’s I have ever played. Honestly one of the worst game’s I have ever played.
474) Total disappointment after first game. Don't buy this, if you respect yourself.
475) Awful game. F any game that push on your throat identity politics.,And uhhmm metacritic wants for me to write again my review and I'm not feeling like doing so.,F naughty Dog and major F for The Last Of Us 2
476) So disappointing that even pewdiepie couldn't stand it while playing it live. Zero because I can't give it -10 out of 10.,Not to mention naughty dog's outrageous behavior trying to silence people all over the internet for having an opinion.,Garbage.
477) I enjoyed the graphic. Most beautiful game i ever played. But story and game play are trash. they just ruined the first part
478) If you see anyone unbiased reviewing it you'll know how many of the flaws these stupid journos ignored all the flaws.,,They'll use "review-bombing" as a crutch when they can't refute the legitimate arguments or they'll just call you a fcking homophone because you know thats completely logical
479) This is the worst game I have ever played, the plot description shows no respect to the player.
480) This game's story is disastrous, full of ridiculous contrivances, plot holes, bland new characters and the original one are completely out of character.
481) Technically impressive, but the history kills me. They force feed you their JSW **** and kill the characters you love from first game. At the end of the game  you cannot even get revenge. Totally dissapointing.
482) The game is so bad it's impossible to describe in words the magnitude of how bad this game is. If you wish to see for yourself, be sure to grab a USED copy of the game. Stop deleting negative reviews metacritic. Everone has caught on to your ****
483) trash forced plot by developers, they have done terrible with the game story and how they made non logical decision for the characters overall, its terrible the developers wanted this story.. pregnant woman goes to frontlines...
484) Story and the character beheviours and choices  was badly written. İ regret buying it as a pre order and i am angry that neil druckmann has ruind my favorite game wich is the first game
485) The last of us part II has very nice gameplay, lustrous visuals but you'll soon come to realize the story is a horrible work of garbage I dont reccomend buying this game until it becomes way cheaper. Dont be disappointed with the bad story. Be grateful for the good gameplay, multiplayer.
486) Stick with the original and forget all about this.,,Yeah, cool graphics.... but that´s it.    Me, I want my games politics and woke agenda free.   We already have enough of this in the real world.,,Save your money for better games,  don´t encourage companies like "Naughty Dog" that just want to pander to the woke crowd.   Disgusting.
487) This game is absolutely trash. Yes graphics are gorgeous. Kills are brutal and sound design is great but the story is garbage. I actually expected Joel to be killed but the way they wrote it was stupid. The pacing of the story completely interrupts the game flow. Too many cut scenes that don't make the game feel important. And they are trying to manipulate the gamer's emotions in an amateurish way. Thumbs down. 22 hrs i will never get back.
488) Save your money. The follow-up plot was absolute garbage. This should be a case lesson on how to ruin a series.
489) The story of this game is the franchise destroyer.,The gameplay hasn't evolved much and can become boring and repetitive.,The developer just want to disgust fans and players in this second game.,Never buy anything from Naughty Dog again!
490) I loved Last of Us I,  but this sequel is just **** Thanks for the disappointment.
491) The plot is so bad. The ending is worse,they make you do **** and have the audacity to make you feel bad for them.,,Can't believe this garbage has been done for so many years.,peace of **** out 100
492) The worst sequel to one of the best games ever made. This game spits on everything the first game created by destroying its beloved characters to shoehorn new characters that have no emotional impact at all.
493) There is no story in this Game and there is no  clips that we like between Joel and Elli and they killed Joel with cold blood but the game Have a really good Gameplay
494) amazing music and graphics but negative 10 for bad story, this was an insult to our wallets
495) CACA, this game is one poop, what discriminade,  arruinaron la franquicia.,.,.  .,N
496) the story pretty much took everything the first one did correctly and just threw it in the trash
497) We expected to another adventure with Ellie and Joel  but we got the most hated **** in the world!!!!! I hate you Neil Druckman this game will be a lesson to all of the directors from the world NEVER BUT NEVERRRR KILL THE MAIN CHARACTER!!! They killed Joel like useless **** whyy???,Joel had to get better death not like this the storyline is boring and why I have to play as the main enemy in the game to continue the storyline  I hate Abby and she looks like man with her muscle TF ND????? and and is soooooo bad *SPOILERS*  after Ellie got to Abby she started to fight with her then after they fought with a lot of blood Ellie lets to Abby go away Jesus cries!!!! he really cries the storyline is terrible. The game is unstable it has a lot of bugs.. the first game was the best game but the 2nd part not will be the game of the year....
498) You deleted story and, as a result, you deleted game. That’s the axiom for this project. Unfortunately, you ruined the story of the last of us, which mostly means  the story of Joel and Ellie’s relationship building process.
499) Complete gutter trash. Spend your money on an actual good game like Ghost of Tsushima.
500) Subverting our expectations with writing logic similar to Game of Thrones Season 8. Take a great original story and just then just take a big old **** all over it.
501) What made The Last of Us Part 1 SO GOOD is the story and the characters. The Last of Us Part 2 is a big f*ck you to the fans. This game is 100% garbage!
502) Just wondering how did you manage to come up with that kind of plot. I'm a simple man. When I see low quality plot I'll give 0 point since my main reason in the playing games is experiencing stories.
503) Such a disappointing sequel to what was an a amazing first  game. Naughty hates the fans of the first game.
504) I want my money back.,,What a disgrace of a game. Disgusting nauseating mess of story where real content and depth is replaced with stupid, shallow bursts of emotional trauma or over the top noisy gore. As if a traumatized unhealed demented person has written it.,,Gameplay is acceptable but offers no improvements  to the previous one.,Graphics are stunning. Occasional bugs with boat getting stuck...,,Overall,  I had such a hard time forcing myself to finish it. I will never ever play it again (while I finished the first one in two digit numbers). And will never buy a game that Neil Druckman has been involved with.,,Can not believe how much money I wasted on this POS.,Sony, if you are reading, give my money back, I will forgive you for wasting my time.
505) I didn’t like it. A chore to play. The story was trying to be something new at the cost of us actually enjoying the game. They wanted a reaction and didn’t care what reaction it was they were going to get out of us. Workers obviously don’t like working there too which is why stuff got leaked. But even before that my gaming senses were tingling that this game was going to suck.    So much cringe. So many reasons why It’s not fun to ply or memorable at all. Nonsense. I can’t recommend this hame with a clear and good conscience. Save your money. Music and graphics were good, but that’s about it. It’s beautiful trash. Stay safe out there.
506) You may delete my review, but will never break my will. This game right here is absolute dumpster fire and you lost your privileges on knowing the reason. Clap-clap. Weak.
507) DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. I feel betrayed by Naughty Dog, a developer that I have come to love over the years for their incredible work on the Jak and Daxter series and the Uncharted Series, not to mention the first Last of Us game. I still can not believe that Naught Dog is even capable of making a bad game, I never saw this coming, but I can not escape the reality of just how abhorrently bad of a game this was.
508) Ruin by neil druckmann,For me, this game has never had a part two,And never has an extra story,It ends in the first part,And both live happily
509) Terrible.  This is how you ruin games.  I really don’t understand why the developers had decided to go with this rout.  As a huge fan, all these years waiting, this was disappointing.
510) Love the first, hate this one. The story drags  on, there  are no living and likable characters and the "conclusion" is not close to satisfiying. It is as if  someone  else wrote the story than the first one.
511) Looks good, Feels good but shame the story is so bad I had to drag myself to finish it
512) Great story and characters.   Best game of the decade.   Any plotholes can be filled by DLC (Which I hope they do.)  Well worth the price of admission - thank you Naughty Dog and team for taking me for this ride.
513) Very bad game the story is soo bad I can’t believe they killed Joel that way damn
514) I played the first game about a year after it came out, and have replayed it almost annually since then. Joel and Ellie may as well have been family. So it hurts to say this, but this game is truly awful. The game gave up on a good story and instead tried to force its agendas down my throat. (I support the LGBT community fully anyway.) The game just lost sight of what made the original so special and basically wrote its own suicide letter. Don’t buy the game. Play the first, and let your memory remain pleasant. Because this story will ruin everything you loved about its predecessor, then come back to take a dump on what’s left of it.
515) Just to get it out of the way... Don't buy this, please. Save your money.,Now as to what I wanted to say so badly that I made an account just to rate this abomination... In recent memory of gaming I don't believe there has been a game that was more abhorrent and more of a disgusting insult to storytelling in general, not to mention the dedicated fans that couldn't hold their breaths in years worth of anticipation for this game. This game hurt me from a plot stance more than anything I have read and/or played in my life. This is truly, in my mind at least, the most execrable and inept path for the story to have possibly taken. Sometimes giving people what they don't want can be a good thing i.e. Darksouls, but this is the equivalent of paying for bread and getting a handful of crap. A lamentable story drives an actually decent game into the dirt and deeper to bedrock and into the void for an experience that feels miserable, unfulfilling and absolutely disgraceful.  So unless you want to be insulted over a 20 hour movie, don't touch this with a 10 foot pole.
516) Same jank mechanics from the first one. TLOU 1 got a pass because it was a playstation 3 game and had an amazing story.,This game throws the story and characters out the window in favor of....,well, not alot tbh.,Dont let Drunkmen make any more zombie games
517) The plot was dumb. You had a pregnant enemy fight with abby(dumb).  Joel dying in the beginning(dumb) and last but not least(you went all though that troublke just to not kill abby(DUMB!) The grpahics are the only thing good about this game and I won't give a point to that bc there is too many negative dumb things for that!
518) Seamless story.,Very boring gameplay.,Pointless end of the game.,Need more biceps.,0/10
519) Worst story ever,sadly... thank you Neil ****,This is so **** sad,he ruined the franchise with this **** story.. I just cant belive what he have done..
520) What an awful way for a sequel i expected some kind of mess but oh boy was i not prepared to be constantly laughing on how bad everything about the story is hilarious tommy get shot in the head from point plank range for shock value but he shake it off stand back up to drive the plot forward then vanishes.
521) honestly the graphics are the best the playstation has ever seen the sound the visual effects spot on but the story is what matter the most in naughty dog games but this time the story  is a pointless revenge plot with unlikable characters and this game also features a character which could be nominated for the worst character of the year the game tries to make you sympathize with this character by painting her as good person with good morals and even this characters friends are also painted as some saints but just one scene of from game makes you hate these character in conclusion,,the game has awful plot holes,unlikable characters who you will not care for,quite a confusing  accessibility menu,amazing graphics,an political agenda,i would not recommend it
522) Seriously ,I don't get why people are defending this game.The gameplay is good yes,but the story is atrocious ,utterly garbage.Especially the ending , Ellie thumb like a hate switch,cut it off and all the hate is gone.
523) Story is a terrible. Game is perfect but story and characters is so bad. I'm disappointed
524) I wonder if it was children that made this game who didn't know how to write anything or if it was made by people that think that having an agenda means that its the best game ever. Also why does Abby exist does she need to. Simple answer no she is the most uninteresting character since the spoon from skyrim. But at least ylwith time and effort the spoon can actually do something. Unlike Abby
525) The problem in this game is not in aggressive sjw or some story twists. In general, I agree with the main line and key events. But they are presented too plain, and you don't feel the impact, you are supposed to. Also, the game wants you to feel sorry for all the people you kill, but it doesn't give you a choice - so, you just feel angry at the game. You also feel it when the game makes you kill dogs in all the disgusting details, just to show you that Ellie is BAD. God, I hate this game for so many things.
526) Absolutly not like the way, story was told. But have nothing bad to say about visual part of this game.
527) Stop feeding me this nonsense. Stop blocking the absence of thoughts with a "social message". This is not equality, this is inequality with the “+” sign for you.
528) The weak plot. I expected more.  Its price is $ 15. The first part is much more interesting. And Yes, I don't care about the LGBT story.
529) Looks very nice, that's about it. But who cares about graphics. Graphics have been oke since 2005 so I don't really care.,,I do care about gameplay and story. They suck balls. Gameplay is the same as the first game.,We don't have to argue about story, everybody knows it's bad.
530) Absolute garbage. Loaded with leftist ideologies and propaganda.  Go play Ghost of Tsushima instead.
531) This game (if you can call it that) is a putrid mountain Everest of decaying stinky diarrhea FILTH to be disposed of, burned, and extinguished with piss. Another game that falls victim to "our game is not fun" Neil Druckmann did just what Kojima did with his steaming pile of puke covered horse defacation that is Death Stranding. Worst game naughty dog ever made hands down no contest and it's not even close. worst playstation exclusive of all time by a landslide and it's not even close. Undoubtedly the worst game of 2020. Gameplay is a walking simulator, Spam square simulator, follow the path simulator, open the dresser droor simulator, with clunky janky stiff amateur 3rd person shooter controls that feel horrible. couldn't tell if I was playing a AAA title or a indie developer mobile game from the google play store, the cure for insomnia, and the most obvious, non-challenging and poorly structured bland, simplistic, repetitive filth to ever exist. it is an outdated boring uninspired disappointment at best from a mechanical standpoint objectively speaking and that is simply irrefutable fact based entirely off logic. Graphics are overrated at best, Red Dead Redemption 2 and God of War 2018 are better. Story is overflowing with nonsense, coiencidences, out of character behaviour, plot holes, retcons, underdevelopment, mental manipulation, and inconsistencies, worse story than the rise of Skwalker, the last jedi, Artemis Foul, Batwoman, Dragonball super, Charlie's angels, birds of prey, Game of thrones season 8, Batman V Superman, Justice Leauge, all combined and multiplied to the 11th power. Just generic unoriginal predictable repetitive mediocrity that we have seen one thousand times over all around through and through. This is an embarrassment to the name of video games, an embarrassment to the name of playstation. If you own this game please pour some gasoline on it, take a big lighter, put it to your butt and flame fart this filth to ashes. because thats what this is. its a fecal fire. And if you like this game please unplug your console, climb onto the roof of your house, spike that thing to the hardest piece of concrete on the ground like you just scored a super bowl winning touchdown, and follow up with a flying elbow drop off the roof to finish it off, and never even think of touching another video game again because you don't deserve to play games cuz ur not a real gamer. 0/10 0/100 0/1000 HORRIBLE VIDEO GAME.
532) Last of Us 2 totally went away from the original story. I know the writers wanted to try something different but the story was awful.
533) I got half a game cuz you are forced to play half the game as another character then Ellie that I CARE NOTHING ABOUT.,so basically I get half a game.,which also has a mediocre story..
534) Very beautiful graphics and sound design but that is all to the game. Story doesn't make any sense and characters are very unlikable, which is suppose to be the main part of the game. But instead it discredit its value. I was also very disappointed, because they ruined Ellie's and Joel's story. IMHO they destroyed the franchise.
535) There's a bit of game on this leftist propaganda... Besides, I'm really hurt by the advertising of this game that leaded is to think Joel would be important at some degree... That manipulation was so awful! I cannot believe something like that could have been approved by someone!,We should thank Anita Sarkeesian for dragging another franchise to ruins
536) This is my first time writing a review and the game made me do it haha, it was such a joke how they made Joel in this game so stupid he was smart and cautious about the world in the first part. this game they made him so dumb its not even a new game to me. It's like a fictional fantasy for a new character they added. Part one was the final part for me I'm sorry but its true that's the Joel I knew and loved. They could have done so much with part 2 have an invasion of zombies take over the town something else than this stupid writing I hope one day they take a look at this and remake it the fans agree. And knowing Anita worked on this just shows that they wanted something different. Was it a good different naaaa your reviews say something else it sais people hated the writing in this lol.
537) the game is a big insult to the last of us part 1. from lying in the trailer about Joel's fate to the vengeance theme of the game which BTW it does not deliver. the main character goes on the revenge path and sees the consequences of her action but the other main character nope. IT does what IT wants and no consequences for her action. I never played a story game for it's visual so it does not matter if the graphic is good.
538) Low FPS, the story got stale after 3 hours into the game, boring combat after a while, no remarkable boss battle.
539) ewww dont buy this... buy ghost of tsushima. tlou 2 is a bad joke and theres no reason for this game even exist. Story is bad twitter fanfic and characters are joke. Not to mention that gameplay is kinda generic. Yes graphic is nice but that what you would expect from AAA game.
540) A terrible game and slap in the face of the original game. Rather than continue the game from Ellie and Joel walking off in the sunset seeking shelter and a new life, it focuses on a homosexual relationship between Ellie and Dina after Dina has a fight with her BF and seeks refuge with Ellie. They also decided to kill off the main Protagonist, a seasoned survivor with a sharp eye and penchant to kill by a group of uncoordinated youth associated with the Fireflies. Joel gets beaten to a pulp in front of Ellie and she vows revenge on Abby, the Transexual ring leader.,Ellie and naieve Dina go on this mission with a largely uninteresting dialogue and passive sexual innuendoes. Besides good graphics which are a given since the game was released years later, there's nothing else worth really appreciating here. If you found Left Behind lacking, this is worse.
541) so gross. This game literally made me puke. I gave it a shot but the detractors were spot on. This game is less than zero
542) This review contains spoilers. Joel's death was presented so simply and helplessly that the spirit was not felt that this character was the main one in the first part, it shocked me, and the developers' idea of ​​tolerance is fundamentally wrong and should not be present in games of this kind, my rating is 10 out of 100 10 just for the schedule.
543) You can buy critics, but can't buy gamers. Graphics - 5, Music -4, awful trying give us sjw plot - -10, totally ruined exceptions of 1-st part -10. Better play in Fallout 76 or Remastered Warcraft.
544) This is not the last of us i know the is an other game they destroid the last of us the story is trash
545) Very disappointed and ridiculous story. Fan been waiting for years of a new The Last of Us to play with Joel and Ellie. Who the hell want to play Abbie in the first, she might be okay villain to kill in the game but not as playable characters. Joel death was rush and leave bad taste for fans of this series. Not gonna lie the game look very beautiful but story wide it suck.
546) This game is made for offending gamers and try to use both capitalism and left-wing politics to manipulate gamers and gaming industry.  I personally cannot bear with it. Sorry but 0/10.
547) This game is the definition of pure garbage, waste and dumpster everything about this game sucks.
548) Disappointed that these sickos can't make their own games, but ruin established franchises.
549) This game has a lot of bugs. You would think with how long it has been in development they would have worked out all of these bugs and the gameplay mechanics would be fluid. It doesn't seem like the gameplay is all that different for the first version of the game. Overall the graphics and breathtaking landscapes/environment are probably the only saving grace of this game. Make no mistake this is more of a media creation riddled with cutscenes rather than a true game. Many parts are just quicktime events with button mashing.,,This brings us to the worst part of the game. The entire story is unbelievable. Even if you ignore the "woke" elements being pushed by Naughty Dog it still does not make much sense. If you are expecting a carefully crafted story with believable characters be prepared to be disappointed. The entire storyline is like some sort of fanfiction or comic book like story arcs with supervillains.,,Overall, this game deserves less than 1 it simply does not reward the player with believable characters or satisfying gameplay. Even ignoring any story elements one cannot see much improvement in gameplay since last of us 1. When you are paying $60 for a brand new flagship Sony Game you expect that the gameplay will introduce new satisfying elements but Naughty Dog falls short. Lastly, it seems the creative direction of this game was a lot more influential in including many cutscenes rather than improving gameplay mechanics.
550) This is very boring game that cause only bad feelings you can imagine. Maybe if it is the first game you play it would be cool but unfortunately it's just piece of smth SJW would like but no one else would
551) Absolute trash, don't buy it, the first game is amazing but the story is absolutely horrendous in this game
552) Good graphics, OK-ish gameplay, some minor bugs but we can live with that. Bad story, awful character development and false advertising. Really disappointed by Naughty Dog.
553) The game is totally propagandistic,I wont say there is trouble about gameplay or gamedesign, but omg Neil Drackmann just killed this game with this lgbt mood, i dont detest the lgbt community, but i think it was so dumb to go with that kind of plot destroying the chemistry within joel and ellie and substitute it for strange protaginsts without any real feelings and problems for those you dont feel empathy. Rest in Peace TLOU 1
554) Yeah sure Neil, we love playing 12 hours as a character who was just newly introduced to the game without any character building, who killed one of the best characters who made TLOU1 so so great, we've waited 7 years to see this. I hope you learn from this, Neil.
555) I waited this game so much time... But they killed the true essence in the last of us. The graphic is very good I give it 10 only for that but the story is 0 points. I played the last of us 7 years ago and I very enjoyed it because the story was good and it was funny the joel and ellie's relashionship. They were like father and daughter. So we waited 7 years for this 2. It doesn't matter the Abby's story and we don't want to play her. She killed the true main character in this game... We want revenge him. And you block us. Always. In the end ellie lost all while Abby won. So this is not the last of us... This game don't exist for me.
556) Terrible game I can’t believe that they killed my favorite character and then made me play as the characters killer for half the game and then didn’t even give me the satisfaction of killing them at the end, the nerve of the devs for allowing this to happen and now I can’t even refund this terrible game. This game is bad don’t by it if you like the last of us
557) This game sux, and nobody should play this, its absolutely terrible, a complete political propaganda
558) The gameplay is good, similar to the first game, simple but effective.,,What it lacks is the story.,Bad pacing, new characters shoved in and not developed enough to have the players feel emotionally attached and constant gameplay padding. Abby in particular, If she would have been introduced more slowly, building her towards her killing Joel, with the player having to do the job after you have played with her for enough time to start appreciate the character, it would have been much better.,,Instead we have a messy start that sets her as a villain while spending the rest of the game using cheap methods to try and make you like her. Meanwhile dehumanizing Ellie. In the end you don't feel anything for either one of them.,,Another glaring weak point is the longevity, the game could have lasted half the 30 hours it lasts and it would have been better, too much gameplay padding in a game that doesn't shine for combat mechanics.
559) This game is an giant middle finger to every fan of the first game. It's gameplay was never special, but the first game at least had an interesting story.,,They got rid of that. All that's left is a boring, hollow, repetitive slog that feels like it will never end. Fire everyone involved with this game. It's trash. The story is drivel. If you love retcons, plot armor, and terrible characters, you'll love it.,,This is how you ruin a franchise.
560) Where the first game had heart, relatable emotions (both good and bad) and empathy, this one has hate, selfishness, narcissistic self-absorption and destructive anger - with most of it seeming bizarre and inexplicable.,,Where the first game had believable motivations for the characters and understandable logic to their decisions, this one just makes them bow before the grindingly, artificially enforced overarching narrative.  It doesn't matter if it fits their character or makes sense, if it needs to be done to keep things grim then it'll happen.,,Make no mistake, these aren't characters so much as they are caricatures; they're really that distorted and cartoonish.,,The same goes for the way the plot unfolds; it doesn't matter if it seems contrived or far-fetched or if it seems incredibly improbable - if it allows an easy path to create further trouble, it's gonna happen whether it's convincing or not.,,It's like the author thinks the players are in their early teens, an odd thing considering the game is 18+ only.,,Honestly, the vast majority of people in this game are damaged goods.  They don't want happiness nor do they seek any way to resolve their problems other than violence.  They cannot even disagree when simply discussing things without insults and bitterness.  Is it something in the water?,,I believe history teaches us that most people come together and put aside their differences in times of conflict, when the need for survival is greatest.  In this post-apocalypse? People just double down and desire more suffering.  It's crazy.  More importantly though, it's lazy, shallow and I didn't find it in anyway convincing.,,So, the game supposedly wants me to feel emotions, it's supposed to be the main draw but I simply couldn't, not after the first 5 hours. Most of these people are hopeless, a lost cause.  They're lemmings and all I could do was watch as they pointlessly flail about, fighting over each other to reach the cliff edge.,,Possibly the most laughable decision is to create a character that kills a beloved one from the first game and then force you to play as that character WITHOUT any backstory until later.  I'm assuming they did that to try and get you to like/understand them but that's a colossal task that requires a skill waaaaay beyond the person who wrote this.,,It's a ridiculous thing to do.  By the time I found out more, I already had gotten used to hating the character completely and simply didn't care.  They should have made this whole game about them and then brought them into contact with the characters that we know in a third game.,,And the ending?  Good grief.  I'm guessing it was supposed to be thought provoking and meaningful but it was obvious that it was going to be one of the options they went for.  The way it happens though is just bland and without any discernible motivation.  There is no clue that I can see as to why Ellie would choose what she did, especially since she goes out of her way from an especially safe and comforting place, long after emotions would have died down, to get to that point.,,It's just another example of a character choosing to do something 'just because'.  Presumably because the writer got lost in his own world and thought it MUST be an amazing idea but we've seen endings like this many times and done much better.  Like I said before, do they not know that mature, older people might play this?  The game has literally nothing new to say, no believable means of delivery and no convincing reason for the ending, despite the fact that their are at least 3-5 different outcomes that would have had more impact, especially if player choice was allowed.,,This game COULD have had me reeling from certain events, if I was actually a participant but I certainly didn't have the the ability to change/direct anything as the story is linear and involves no decision making or interesting choice/consequence systems - in a high budget game in 2020 no less.....:S,,Tehcnically (graphics and sound) the game is outstanding.  The combat is fairly dated and nothing new, a 7/10.  The skill trees are pointless.  There's too much wandering about here and there and it spoils the pacing.  The new monsters are mostly enjoyable.  The last act is bloated.,,In case you didn't guess, I disliked the game.  It's not canon to me.  Just remember the first game and ignore this.  Look it up on youtube if you're really curious.
561) It wasn't written for the same group who made the first one,  just, can't be!,This game history make us fells like they cherry-pick social warrior's tweets and then made a narrative of it.,This game is propaganda, not art!
562) this game is basically a torture porn soap opera. it's all about love triangles and melodramatic nonsense, extremely contrived with a badly constructed narrative, plot-armor all over the place, way too many forced coincidiences, even in pivotal events in the story.,,it rehashes all the boring old cliches we've seen a million times before and uses over the top gore and violence in order to come off as meaningful, but the story really has nothing to say. it's pseudo intellectual and pretentious.,,it's bad enough as it is, as a standalone game, but in context of how brilliant the first game was, this is a travesty.,,that's is why the technical aspects like graphics or music can not redeem this game at all. it's a real shame that all the hard work that went into it was a big waste of everyone's time.,,it's a perfect example of how NOT to do a sequel and treat your fans. one of the most beloved franchises in gaming is most likely dead, and that's why I give this a 0/10.
563) Tlou is about the story, and here they give us a renvenge plot full of clichés, yes It looks beautiful and if you only care about graphics then you should play it. The characters are awfull they never seem to learn from past experiences and the plot just keep going based on terrible decisions made by the characters. And on top of everything the ending completely fails to justife the reason of being of this sequel.
564) Why should I play Abby? Why should I play Abby? Why should I play Abby? Why should I play Abby?
565) Absolutely rubbish and should have never been made, what a complete disgrace to the first one, basically no improvements to the game play, and the worst story ever told, and more dyke nonsense, gross.
566) Story is not on par with the first game character are different then I remember Abby was not fun to play as gameplay was the same game was really boring
567) Gameplay: 10/10,Soundtrack: 10/10,Story: 3/10,Story is really bad in this game i don't know why ellie didint kill abby on last mission, story need to be fixed..
568) This game is not like what everyone excepted,In the end at least let us kill abby **** neil druckman **** the last of us part 2
569) The story is a trash The developers throw all The benefits of the first part and changed it by a useless story.
570) The first game was good, but the second game was horrible. Dont spend your money on this game.,The storyline was horrible, i wanted to quit playing when Joe was killed. And the game got worse,when you played the Abby line. Stay away dont waste your money.
571) Horrible, storyboard intragable, forced narratives, odious discurses, segregative messages.
572) Bad narration. No innovation from the last game. Disappointing ending. Paid journalists.
573) i hate it . i waited 7 years for this massive disappointment . not only they ruined this great franchise but they did a false advertising
574) This game is an absolute slap in the face to the previous title. Everyone at naughtydog should be ashamed. The story is completely divorced from reality, pandering to flavour of the month "woke" politics instead of progressing from the original. This game will be forgotten, unless you need an example of the fall of a once great game. I got a refund thank goodness, sorry to anyone who couldn't.
575) This game sucks,Ther is no character development the characters felt bleak and the story was quite boring in a sense I would not recommend this game and it is an embarrassment as  well as a disappoint meant to good games all around
576) The chaos of the plot, the misplacement of the character's personality, the meaningless battles are too many. Intentionally using the feelings of a generation to deceive players to buy, even if the picture quality is very good, there isThe chaos of the plot, the misplacement of the character's personality, the meaningless battles are too many. Intentionally using the feelings of a generation to deceive players to buy, even if the picture quality is very good, there is no mood to watch on the way to play. no mood to watch on the way to play.
577) The magic that was captured in the first game, was completely crushed and destroyed with little to no respect....,Yo hey guys, So I'm a new rising reviewer and I just played through the last of us blind. This is not a good game, and I am a massive fan of the first....,To sum things up quite quickly the game for me would have been a solid 4 or 5. This is due to its gorgeous graphics and somewhat polished controls. The game has not done anything to evolve significantly gameplay wise. In saying so there were more situations in which the game offered multiple tactics in order to progress which I liked. The game's NPC's are not that great and the overall pacing of the game is constant unlike the first. This made the game feel long and just one big drag.,However the Last of Us part 2 deserves a big 0.,This game is constantly forcing a political agenda down my throat whether I like it or not. Numerous times I wanted to just turn off the game however for the sake of making an unbiased review I hammered on towards the end. Why make these sort of statements in something we play as an escape from reality? So stupid and unnecessary.,I have been a big fan of Naughty Dog over the years but this is the game that ruined it for me. A lot of fans of the original will find this game extremely disappointing.,Save your money and stay clear of this one.,If you ever so happen to play the first one again, make sure to take out every single person in that hospital.
578) This vote is not for the "gay" content, it's not like we fans care for sexuality of the characters. We care for the story, and this story is bad, and even worse is the narration, the motivation and the execution of all this story. It's a mess, it's not even a chapter 2 for me, just a bad fan fiction.,,Zero is the vote and the money this game and Naughty Dog will get from me in the future. I regret wasting so many hours until the end, just to see how bad it can get.
579) Ridiculous title! Once one of my favorite developers became one of my most hated devs. Plot holes, No consistency, extremely disrespectful to the fan base, game characters and overall gamers intelligence. Avoid at all costs! No matter what, I will not support ND ever again. ND is gone.
580) I guess Neil Druckmann, the guy who make this game has antisocial personality.,What is this fxxk up ****,Joel die in a stupid way, then when you use Ellie to revenge, next second, Bang, you need to control Abby for 10 hours and bit up Ellie.,Finally, can you kill Abby? NO, Ellie decide to forget Abby. So, Ellie end up losing 2 fingers, go back to an empty house, cant even play the guitar which Joel gave her.,So that mean, Abby revenge is Okay, Ellie revenge is Bad?,What a SICK FXXK.
581) It's not worth the money, nor the gameplay time, nor the wait.,,Gameplay it's nice, better than the first part, the developers made a good work with that.,,The music it's right, not forgettable, not lovable, just right, there's some melodies that you end up singing without noticing but the rest are just meh.,,The story it's hot garbage, both as a single plot and as a sequel, it doesn't make sense most of the time, the characters are flat or horribly written, it feels like the writters are trying too hard to be deep but just don't get it, and the final "reflexion" has literally no sense after all the protagonist (Ellie) has been through.,,The graphics are pretty great, one of the best ones i've seen.,,Controversies aside, that's all i gotta say about it.
582) Story is ruined by sjw politics and so is any fun or enjoyment you might get from it.
583) Horrible, this is not the Joel that everyone knows, Ellie is stupid the hole game, except obviusly when she was a kid.
584) Graphics are the only upside of this game.,,The expert storytelling from the first game is gone and the game makes it clear those who loved the first game are not welcome or needed. The game feels like it was written by a California college's first-year creative writing class. It is all so forced and shoved down the player's throats. Then there's the message of 'killing is bad,' but you kill all the time, making the message redundant. It makes the game unfun and annoying to play. If you're looking for a game to play to get away from the slog of real life, this is the worst choice available.,,If you must play it, buy it used so you can return it.
585) The Last of Us is my all time favorite game. The sequel ruins everything I loved about the original. I have no interest playing as the character that kills off the main characters of the original game.  I destroyed my copy after completing the game. Worst money ever spent.
586) When the only thing you have going for your game is how pretty it looks, you've messed up very badly somewhere in development. Also, there is absolutely no way you can get 50 100 out of 100s without bribes or blackmail being involved somewhere.
587) Horrible story and for a game that is story driven it makes for a horrible game written by a egomaniac writer. Also having false advertising in your marketing and then saying that is to 'conceal the story as much as possible' is just insulting your consumers intelligence. It shows how much you think of us, especially when you're spoofeeding the concept of 'hur dur revenge is bad'. Everyone **** knows that and we're not the sociopats you think we are!
588) bad game, story is stupid, gameplay fun but being such a linear story driven game if you mess up the story this bad the gameplay is pritty in imaginative. Graphics beutifull.
589) Big fan of first game, and I feel betrayed. You don't respect us Naughty Dog ? I won't respect your game in return.
590) As someone who has beat the last of us 1 multiple times and play this game all the way through once, I can in fact guarantee I will never play this terrible game again.
591) Spoilers alert:,,The first part is my favorite game ever along with Uncharted 4. I was waiting for the part 2 so much. I had pre-ordered the game and I had seen nothing from the leaks. I wanted to play the game myself and see how it is.I had so much hype and when the game finally arrived in my hands I started played with so much hype. Then as the hours was passing and I was reaching the end of the game, I really felt disappointed.,,Well no about graphics, mechanisms, details, animations. These are the best out there in my opinion and I didn't expect something less from ND. On this sector they did the best work for real.,,My disappointment was because I didn't expect such an off topic story. I expected to see some new missions with Joel and Ellie but most like likely something that it would explain or show what happened / happening about the virus, its evolution or its cure solution. Well nothing from all these happened.,,I actually played a game that had to do with so many inaccurate characters according to the part 1 that we never showed them there and everything had to do around them. The most hours of the game it was a gameplay with Abby and not Ellie. Even if the game logo on the dvd package showing the Ellie as the protagonist.,,I found Abby's part so boring because I had just to go to a specific location then come back to a previous then again go back to the original and doing such things that didn't make me feel excited at all. It was like I was playing a walking dead tv series in a game. Even the end of the game reminded me so much of the Nigan season.,,ND also did something wrong. They nurfed Joel and Tommy that much that I thought it was a joke or a troll to us the fans of the franchise. Joel and Tommy would never mention who they are, from where they are or asking strangers come with them to their camp. That was much accurate to me.,,Also we watched 2 official trailers with Joel saving Ellie by covering her mouth plus Ellie playing guitar and saying to Joel he will kill any last of them. Well these scenes never happened in the game. It was probably a marketing to push the sales. Showing Joel alive and kill him just in the first 2 hours like garbage or a movie walkon wasn't that cool.,,Also Ellie mentioning to Abby you will **** die, you are dead etc. and in the end nothing of this happens. Just like Rick with Nigan in the final episode that letting him be alive. So the problem here is that this game wasn't prototype at all. Just a copy of a move or tv series. While the first part was from zero to the end a real masterpiece with a great scenario.,,Another thing that was not that cool is the animal violation. In first they said you will not be forced to kill a dog but at last there were times you had to. Also killing dogs was only represented while playing as Ellie and from the other side with Abby you were only playing with a dog. That was a trick to make people love more Abby instead of Ellie?,,Well after that I felt they just humiliate our intelligence. Anyway. That's it for me and that was my personal opinion of course. Also it's sad to see a director calling his fans with negative characterizations or words like "who **** / cares for the haters"?,,And I am not talking about those fake fans that used rude and abusing language against ND or the actors. That's not right. I am talking about the real fans that paid played the game and they had their own opinion that it was different of what nd's director probably expected. Not cool when you talk like that about your customers / fans.,,Peace.
592) You have conquered entertainment industy, but you'll never have our hearts.
593) This review contains spoilers. The Last of Us 2 is a true testament to how not to make a sequel for a game. While gameplay received better animations and such, it mostly remained the exact same and becomes monotonous and predictable over the 25+ hour story. While it’s not bad, you'd hope for a much bigger upgrade or overhaul of crafting and other gameplay mechanics, but many remained completely untouched. But the gameplay isn’t what causes this game to be a failure in my opinion, because that’s not what people really play TLOU for anyways. People play for the characters and story, which is nothing short of disappointing and misguided in this game. The utter lack of respect toward previous or even new characters prevents the player from getting invested in them, and the game fails to utilize the one relationship the player was already invested in going into the game. Instead they demolish that relationship, and never really show it getting back to anything of what it used to be. Most other characters in this game are stagnant and replaceable, and while they have good performances, fail to make me care about them in a meaningful way. That is, until they get brutally murdered on a quest for revenge. By the end of the game I was so numb to violence nothing shocked me anymore, and I’m not sure what the game was even trying to say through all this violence and misery. What I do know is that I feel devastated for Ellie and deep hatred for another character. I truly hope Naughty Dog lets this franchise die in the pit they dug for it. I absolutely loved the first game, but this train wreck wants me to feel depressed for nothing. Some of the lessons it tries to teach seem so stupidly simple I asked myself if I was even hearing it right. All I can hear now is the ringing in my ears after listening to one of my favorite games get pillaged and massacred in the name of “Subverted Expectations”. Do not recommend.
594) The game doesn't do the franchise as a whole any good whatsoever instead of creating a compelling story of revenge and finally taking down the final boss but instead after all the killing you've done and sacrifices you let her go for no reason whatsoever the worst thing about this whole game is after killing the character everyone loved in a brutal way they try and get you to sympathise with her
595) I've played the first TLOU at least 10 times and in my opinion it's one of the best games ever made. I have no idea what this second game is, I cannot even recognize it. I can only describe it as horrible, terrible, awful, disgusting and disrespectful.
596) Trash,Trash Trash,Trash,Trash Trash,Trash Trash,Trash,Trash,Trash,Trash Trash,Trash,Trash
597) Amazing graphics and gameplay that unfortunately are shoved to the side by the horrible story. Plot holes and unlikeable characters make this an unworthy sequel to the first game.
598) Man I was expecting so much more after playing last of us remastered twice all the way through. I should have read the other reviews before wasting money on this game, it is obvious that the developer was more interested in pushing an agenda than actually producing a game to surpass the previous game. Do not waste your money or time.
599) I waited eagerly for this game... for years and couldn't have been more let down.  After playing this game I have lost all respect for naughty dog. The graphics were amazing but that is the absolute only positive thing I can say. This is THE worst storyline in a game that I have ever played.  It's one of those stories that leaves you thinking "Wow. There goes hours my life I will never get back!",I am baffled that metacritic scores this game so highly vs the user score.  SMH Hopefully naughty dog will listen to the purchasers of this game and improve in their story telling ability.  The thing that really gets me is that they can write well.  They showed us that when the put out the last of us. Why they put this out completely boggles the mind.  Why this story pitch was even considered boggles the mind.  I would say they need to fire their writer immediately and get someone with talent in that position.
600) love + respect ≠ pander?,make good product ≠ pander.,It is scary if an ignorant person has faith.,to neil
601) Well, a very strange situation.,Very beautiful visuals. nice game-play.,BUT... Horrible and flat storyline.,It's the same bad as Disney Star Wars Trilogy and the same bad as Game of Thrones last season.,If you are a fan of the first part - don't waste your time on this garbage. You will be totally angry and unsatisfied.
602) Absolute disgrace of a video game delusional game developer do not buy. Cant believe how bad this is
603) Typical Social Justice Warrior agenda. Not a fan of games trying to sell me an agenda.
604) What made TLOU 1 a great game was the story. TLOU2's story is absolute garbage. I didn't even want to play half the game as Abby. Who the heck would want to play as the killer of one of TLOU1's protagonists? Whoever wrote the story for TLOU2 should be fired. I wish I would've known before j bought this game.
605) No way is this game a 10/10, the story is terrible! I couldn't care less about the the characters here, even Ellie who i loved in the first game is dreadfully dull here. Graphics and gameplay are 10/10 but the story which made the first last of us one of my favourite games of all time is truly poor here.
606) Didnt like the Story.,Didnt like the gameplay.,Liked grafics and animations.,Liked Sounds.,Liked the game the first half, but than i played only for the cliffhanger, was bored and had no fun.,Storywise and gameplay wise not interessted
607) I have played some games that are borderline **** but let's put it this way: They did not piss me off enough to make a metacritic account. Did you love Joel from part 1? He dies in the most "we need it for story" way possible.,Do you like Ellie? Well she gets her life turned upside-down and you're supposed to like that. You get to play through slaughtering Ellie's friends. You are forced to kill a dog.,I hope you like Abby, you know, the one who killed Joel and slaughtered Ellie's friends. After Ellie loses everything, she let's the **** go? I call bull****. Ellie lost her father figure, her friends, and her family (and the ability to play Joel's guitar) but we need to be happy Ellie is screwed over and Abby (Butch) gets to live out happy?,I am glad my little brother let me borrow this as I would not have spent money on this. As far as I am concerned The Last of Us Series ends when Ellie said "Okay" in the first one.
608) The plot of this game is absolute garbage, Joel being a different character of the original game, Abby being an annoying character that ND force you to play.
609) Ohh boy, it's hard to say all that I want to say without making this too long, but I'll try. The game has amazing graphics and the level design is nice but it has a ton of flaws.,The easy difficulties are just... too easy and the hardest difficulty still has the random checkpoins that make the game easy as **** The gameplay it's clunky as **** and feels like you are playing an early 2010s game, it's hard to believe that these guys progammed the Uncharted 4 combat system.,In the other hand there is the story, The last of Us was a game about the last humans trying to survive in a savage world, this game ditches all that story and it's only about humans doing human things, the virus has lost all of it's weight in the story and it's just like a very secondary plot. The writers also make a titanic effort to make you empathize with the new characters and too little to actually develop the old ones, there are parts of the story that feel too long and others that feel too rushed but the worst part is that they reutilice a lot of locations and scenaries just to make the game longer in things that they could add in a cinematic.,This is going to be the most overrated game this year for sure.
610) Horrible game killed off my favorite character the first game was infinitly better then this trash they call a game if i could unplayable this game from my memory i would
611) it's a nice looking game but i cannot emphasise how much of a disappointment the story was
612) Graphically this game is good as per the Naughty Dog standard, But story wise I am quite disappointed.,A lot of the reviews here are genuine.  having a pretty game just isnt enough.
613) Trash game. Not worth my purchase. I don't know how ND could take this direction. I couldn't even refund it
614) I wasted my time playing this thing I mean if I played fifa it would've been more fun than this
615) The first part is a masterpiece, this one sucks. The only highlight of the game is political correctness but it contains lines of racism to Asian. Hilarious, Sony is not a Japanese company now? I hope Sony can sell naught dog to EA and get them break apart.
616) I don’t want to waste my time to review this game at all, but I want the people know what this game is about and how these PROFESSIONAL critic reviewers lied to us! It’s the most **** game I’ve ever played. The graphic and gameplay is unquestionably adorable. But what’s wrong with the STORY? **** you ND. The best part of original TLOU is it’s story, and the sequel totally abandons it and ruins all the love I have for this game. Another SJW-ruining game, classic. **** you ND.
617) i dropped this game. Because instead i good visual gameplay is repetative, and the story, heroes is awful, dialogues sooo dummed and whole scenario was written for idiotic childrens.
618) For all the good they did with this game to ruin it the way they did and remove not just Joel but for any male playable representation in this game is just spitting in the face of fans...
619) This game fails to live up to the grandeur of the first game, and retroactively destroys a lot of the greatness.,,Spoilers follow.,,Joel's decision, which I thought was ambiguous in the first game, has been retroactively condemned and deemed "the wrong thing to do." Nonsense, if anything his actions were absolutely correct even if he hated Ellie.,,The characters are shallow, cardboard cutouts and the game is preachy. The advertisements were outright misleading, to the point that people should be able to demand a refund. Abby is a horrible character, and one you are forced to spare after being forced to play her and watch her ruin everything for the characters you actually enjoy.
620) TLOU is one of my most beloved and favourite games because of the story and relationship between Joel & Ellie. I avoided all the leaked spoilers, negative criticism on the game so I can experience it for myself and make up my own judgement. However, I am disappointed with ND here’s why. I played the game and completed it in 4 days straight (do not recommend it) it took me on an up & down journey (Mostly down) from beginning to end, lots of flashbacks, confusing story, misleading trailers to get the fans to buy the game, no character development, or clear message, pointless tasks, uncharacteristic choices, no real care or connection to any of the new characters introduced, more than half the game you play as Abby to try and get us to understand and sympathize, when no one really wanted that.,I can understand where the director was trying to take the story but it was done poorly, even someone with an open mind could see this. The characters they said they hold close and dear to their hearts & would do right by the fans they completely ruined.  One thing I cant deny is the graphics are incredible, and the accessibility of game play.  If only they had put more work into the story than they did for the visuals. No matter how beautiful the visuals are, it was hard to enjoy this game. At end of it, I felt mentally and physically distraught, no real accomplishment or impact from the game like it had in the first one.
621) cant believe how they approved the script. the characters doesn't make sense. too much stress on current issues at hand. gaming mechanics has no major improvements
622) The fact and 70% of the dev team quit because they were fed up with having to pander to an SJW agenda just made me sad for those who had put their soul into this piece. My 0 review is for them. Loved the first. Writing was great. It is all completely undone because of this. Political Correctness has been destroying everything that made our culture something worth being proud of. LOUP2 is simply just one more casualty on the long road before it dies a slow painful death and the difference between user score and critic scores show just how out of touch these people really are. Don't listen to the paid shill reviews by the critics. This made absolutely no sense to anyone who liked the first game.
623) This is the game that gave me the most emotions out of every game/movie/book ever. Could not say that they were all positive though. Those who played the game remember that scene where THE pendejo spits on Joel’s body. I literally felt that spit in my face as a fan of the first game.  I think that 4/10 is a fair score for this title considering the visuals and technology behind the game. But the visuals is not everything. Extremely disappointed.
624) Its hilarious to see the devs giving their own game positive reviews on multiple account, You can totally tell which reviews those are because the person that wrote the review only has 1 review (about this game ha) on their account. It should be illegal to give a product, that you had a hand in creating, a positive review, let alone give it multiple positive reviews..,This game just has a horribly unbelievable story because in the post apocalypse, people arent going to be worried about transitioning their gender, they are going to be worried about eating. This game just has such a stupid concept. Just really shows how dumb devs really are these days. They cant even grasp simple concepts like that. And it just makes for awful un-immersive games/stories.,Not to mention that nothing was even mentioned in the first one about gender transition or anything, but the second games comes out, and is pretty much all about gender transition? In the apocalypse? Its just so fkin unbelievable that its ridiculous. You would have to be such a moron to buy this story. Because trust me, when your worried about eating, and being eatin, transitioning your gender is going to be the last thing on your mind..,The only thing I have a problem with is horrible writing/stories with absolutely no logic or fore-thought put into it/them
625) That's how Naught Dog have destroyed a fantastic story. Good work.,Why did you just attach the fan like this?,About the plot: is very weak. Why? Simple:,The first TLOU is a light story in a darkness world,,the second is a dark story in a darkness world. How can it works?,All the characters for the first chapter are totally changed.,Remember Naughty Dog, because it seems you've forgot it, the goal of a game is the fun, not the message.,0/10 is for the false trailers and the hour of play useless.
626) Naive storytelling. First one was better in every way.i wish for a remake with a less naive story.
627) What does The Last of Us Part I, Uncharted 2 and Uncharted 4 all have in common ???,,2 Words: Bruce Straley,,Bruce, You The Real MVP !!!,,Bruce Straley > Neil Druckmann + Halley Gross
628) This **** is simply the most disgusting thing I've ever seen and asked me to pay for it? Impossible
629) I know many would find wrong of me to put a 0 in a game with soo many good things going for it, like the graphics, the gameplay, the scenery is great too, but when I judge a game I do it in the basis of my general enjoyment of it, I don't really care if it has some glitches or drop some frames here and there, if I feel great about a game I care for non of those other things. This is not one of those times, I hated playing this, when I was done playing all I wanted was my money and my time back, completely regret the experience and I cant recommend this to anyone, if fact I would go as far as to say that if you love the first one, like I do, do not play this game.
630) This game is not what i hoped for. I found official trailers were misleading (specially in reference to one of the main characters) and game play is pretty much the same as the first game , no major changes there except the jump button. Story is just OK specially from Chapter 7 onwards, the main quest stopped making sense, from there on it really felt like a sub-standard side story / quest. I think they ran out of ideas of how to make this game into a 20+ hours adventure so they just dragged the story in senseless manner.,Overall this game is a massive disappointment. I should have waited for this to go on sale :(
631) This game isn't fun.  It's pushing a political agenda at you at all times and it's completely distracting.  And as a story-based game, if the story is terrible, then what's left?  Give this a pass, I regret putting money and time into this game.
632) I just don't get that,why you have to kill a dog in game?  Because it is a naughty dog?!
633) Do I even need to say something?,The game is absolute Hippocritical and creates characters that are nothing like the other game.,**** this game
634) Not going into a lot of detail at all but the game was great with the flaws that it did have. The story could have been better but for what we got it was good but lasted to long and should have ended sooner then it did. Ellie and Abby were both good characters and I am excited to see where The Last of Us goes from here I just didn't like the whole revenge plot as much as I thought I would. Gameplay was just as good as it was from the first game so it didn't need changing and the acting in the game was first class. it isn't a 10/10 from me and the first game was better but this holds up pretty well IMO
635) Poor writing and politics don't belong in video games. Druckman can hang his hat up on this one knowing he FUBAR'd this one.
636) terrible story. disappointed for a famous series name. It's a waste of money and time for this story.
637) Everyone gets at least a 1 right?  Not this game.,,This is the worst game I have played in my lifetime and considering i have played over 600 games , that's saying something. Save your money and if you MUST play this title.. please guy it second hand.  Naughty Dog needs to know that if you bend your fan base over and shove your personal ideology up someone's.. well you know.. there are consequences.,,The games basically take our hero's.. hero's that only killed when they were attack as a means to survive.. and spent the game vilifying them both. Their premise.. violence begets violence, is the largest hypocritical lie / double standard of the game.  "Violence begets violence.. but check out this new mechanic that allow you to kill people in all these cool ways!!!" I felt as if Naughty Dog joined a cult and decided to preach at me in a language that they didn't even **** understand.. and the game ended up completely lost as a result..,,The world they introduced us to was beautiful but they managed to make me despise everyone in it.  This game should have been the start of a new chapter.. equally as legendary as the first.. but what we got was a sequel as bad as "speed 2".  Have seen it?  There is a reason why : ),,I guess it is good that the majority of the community canceled their pre-orders (record high cancellations of the LOU2 game for Sony).. but like an idiot.. I was hoping that people were complaining about nothing.  I WAS WRONG. What a joke... wait.. no.. a joke is funny.  This game isn't even shell of its former glory and it is all because some dumb ass decided to try to be are parents instead of a game company CEO.  Neil needs to lose his jobs for this..,,This does, however, make me appreciate the fact that they did such a good job on Red Dead Redemption 2..
638) I made a metacritic account just so I could leave this review. I honestly didn't think this game could disappoint me, despite hearing there was controversy in the leaks (which I successfully avoided, but honestly it wouldn't have mattered).,The gameplay is still fun. Stealthily killing enemies and zombies will never grow old. And the flashback scenes with Joel and Ellie are honestly the best parts of the game for me.,My biggest problem with the game is being forced to play as Abby for half of it. It's not fun. I want to know what happened to Ellie back at the theater. All your inventory is reset. And I hated the character. She's specifically introduced as an unlikable character due to her killing Joel. Only after you're forced to play as her for several hours do they try to establish her likability.,Why is likability so important, you may ask. Well, imagine in the last game, you played as David, the cannibal rapist for half the game. Sure, we may have slowly learned to empathize with him and his backstory or whatever, but is that really enjoyable? Especially when you're forced to almost kill your favorite characters.,To be forced to play as Abby for half the game when we could've spent more time with Ellie or Joel is a terrible decision. ND, you had one job: continue Ellie and Joel's story. And you **** failed spectacularly.
639) The first game was really fun. But the sequel ruined everything. This is so terrible.
640) Iam really disappointed about this game and the story. I have wait 7 + year for this game and the result is heart breaking. I will not spoiler everything but this is a disaster. A other aspect is how Naughty Dog has lying in the marketing the fans and Sony tolerated this. Sony and Naughty dog grab my cash for this game but lost my trust.  Iam thinking now stay i by Sony and buy the ps5 or go to x box.
641) I'm not a person that can show love and forgive the murderers of an important person in my life, so the story really pissed me off. The story uses brutal scenes to get Joel killed, but doesn't use the same or worse level of scenes to take revenge of those murders, so disgusting; also the game does not provide options but forcing user not to take revenge on Abby, more disgusting; furthermore, the game forces players to control Abby - the devil and murderer during different stage of the game, this is definitely the worst way to piss off players.,,I bought the game, played it for lots of hours, but I regret it, because:,1. Bad story and ending - said above,2. Slow pace story,3. Force playing with enemy,4. Not many graphic improvement for in-door areas compare to first one
642) Crap, crap, and more crap. The worst money and time spend ever. Graphics are ok, but just this.
643) I bought this from FB Marketplace... I was amazed at the price drop it had so soon. I tought this game would have 0 replay value since there were more than a couple of this in my area to say the least.,I got very tracked in when playing the first hours, I didn't get how Joel seemed like a different character altogether but I could bite in the "Revenge plot" they needed for this game. I tought it was great with the character interactions but... not really a TLOU game.,Then... in the middle of the game We got to play as the freaking antagonist and I tought this would be a freaking badass momment but we only saw her as a bad character with 0 depth that was shown to be the next best thing besides bread or something. I bought this game because I loved the story in 1 and I don't enjoy the second part at all because the story makes no sense, the characters are different in the skin of the previous characters and honestly... This game doesn't lack replay value, IT LACKS PLAY VALUE. Don't buy it, it's probably worth the same as any bad fanfic TLOU1 had.
644) I can't believe i just waited 7 fckn years for this piece of sh*t game. I can't believe Joël was made so dirty. He tells his name to Abby. In the last of us 1 he was the most cautious character and not easy to trust. We get to play fckn abby for the half of the game. WTF is that?! The ending is just dogsh*t, ellie remembers Joël and spares Abby. The game is just pointless. The leaks were FAKE. Naughty dog you should be ashamed
645) The plot lacks continuity from the first part.  Unable to draw the emotions of the players to conform to the actions of both the roles of Elly and Abe  Letting go of resentment cannot come from compassion from the players.  It must come from the perspective of the character Elly.  Subjected the plot too deliberately
646) I was expecting some better writing. Unless someone else was responsible for the story of the first The last of us. I can see how good this games graphics are. But, if you sculpt a turd on a plate. No one cares about how beautiful the turd is. No one would stoop to eating it and playing this game feels like they are trying to force you to eat that turd. I play games mostly for the story and loved the first game. I can't play something that I find no joy i I thought that was what games were about. To play something that satisfies you. A game is to make you think and get you to look at things differently. As well as introducing new scenarios and ways of telling a story. If a game fails to fuel imagination, then is it worth making?
647) The script messed up the whole game. I spent my money in vain. The game has a very terrible scenario.
648) well... ı give 10 points for the first game, cuz of the story. Gameplay was good quality was good.. exct... but there was only 1 thing that makes me addicted to the game and it was a story.,This game also have a good gameplay, quality... but the story is just soo bad like soo d*mn bad. ı should give 1 star like ı am pretty sure Neil some do nasty things with that star (if he cants find someone). (yea ı know my england is perfect)
649) This game is a major disappointment. As an existing IP with a good prequel, the bar was set high, and an utter piece of garbage was delivered.
650) garbage good job ruining this game for us,,the story was destroyed by turning it into **** revenge story that in the end turned to be pointless
651) The story looks so forced and rushed, I didn't enjoy this and graphically... feels like the first game
652) I played first part tlou and it is masterpice but second part is great **** If you have choice to play tlou2 or rewind first part you should chose second.
653) revenge=bad is not profound. The story just tries too hard to make you feel sorry for people that you immediately don’t want to feel sorry for
654) Pure garbage. They pissed off under the original The Last of Us masterpiece.
655) This game has amazing graphics and pretty good gameplay, however the most important aspect of this game is the storyline, which unfortunately has been butchered and slaughtered in the most inhumane way possible.,,Just a few hours into the game the protagonist is thrown away  into a pile of trash, like an obsolete 1.44mb floppy disk. This decision was made not only because of the clearly sexist and biased political views of the story writers but also very possibly because their imagination was insufficient to live up to the story masterpiece that was in the first game.,,So what do you do when you have a severe lack of imagination and lack of self confidence into living up to the expectations?,You chicken out and kill the most important character of the game so you can make new ones, this way nobody will be able to call you out for your failure to do a proper sequel to the game.,Unfortunately, this was so poorly executed that it makes story lines from films such as GhostBusters 2016 sound like the most innovative and creative writing you've ever seen.,,If you are a true TLOU fan, then this game is not for you as you will find it a complete failure story-wise.,If you are a hardcore fan of Game of Thrones and The Walking Dead, then you will find many fingerprints of those 2 in this game, so it should have some sort of appeal to you.,,You may think that these are harsh words, but there are simply to many examples in game where you can find the storyline killing the entire game atmosphere, i'm not even going to dwell into the clear political agendas that this entire game is all about, lets pretend that those issues dont exist and just consider the story as a whole instead.,,The Good,In the first game you get to play as Joel daughter, then Joel and then Ellie finding a unique storyline about family and hope in the most dificult and improbable scenarios of a persons life.,,In TLOU2, most of Ellie & Joel memory flashbacks are heartwarming, even if predictable and expected, they get to you, frankly these memories were so good that if you sold the game and expanded solely on these memories the entire time it would have worked much better than this actual storyline, it would also allow you to evolve the main story of this game later in TLOU III explaining to the players how JOEL died. That would probably work so much better than this as the whole game is constantly spamming you with flashbacks making it annoying very quickly.,,The Bad,In this game despite so many content being about Joel and Ellie relationship, you don't ever get to play as Joel, instead you play as Ellie and Joel murderer (not skippable).,You get Family Guy type of flashbacks, which becomes annoying very quickly, by the time you're 50% into the game, you're already frustrated with the annoying interruptions from the main game, you are then forced to switch characters from the new protagonist to the antagonist, again, at the worst moment in time possible.,As if it was not enough that you have to play as Joel killer and to fight and almost kill Ellie, you then get another bunch of annoying flashbacks from the antagonist life, the idea here was to allow the player to somehow feel some empathy for the antagonist, however, this character story line is so boring and long, you just cant stop thinking about the main game.,Everytime i was forced to play with Abby i couldnt help to feel a severe lack of interest into the game and i had to almost force myself to keep going, promising myself the rest of the game story could be better.,,Although the game tries to imply that Abby is human too and has her own problems, the story is too flawed and too generic to transmit this kind of sentiment to the player.,,The rest of the story is more or less the same, bland and generic, you really dont feel any empathy towards any of the game characters dying, even when Joel brother was almost killed was a "meh" moment and his comeback a total cliche.,,The Ugly,You might think that im done with the negative side of the story but wait! Theres more! You end up sacrificing the life of your friends, permanently crippling Joel brother, murdering lots and lots of Abbys "friends" just so you can get into a final fight with her and loosing 2 fingers, at the end of the fight, when you're drowning her for good, you give up and let her go because somehow you're starting to think that there is too much killing in this world, so the perfect logical conclusion is you kill everyone except the murderer of Joel, the hole in this plot is so big not even a blue star could cover it.,,In the end its obvious why the story is such a disaster. ND programmers & artists did an amazing job,  since the game graphics and gameplay are so good that this generic, bland and poorly written storyline is an insult to all the years wasted programming, designing and modelling this game. Neil Druckmann had 1 job and failed miserably at it.
656) After playing the game for a couple of hours I will never touch this total mess of a game again!
657) Neil Druckmann should resign and never direct a AAA video game ever again!!,,What a pathetic excuse for a story... killing the main character that we all loved from the first game in less than 2 hours in the most ridiculous and morbid way, just to force an agenda down our throats! Who in their right mind does that?,What's the point of painstakingly building up a character in the previous game that generated so much love and acclaim across gamers only to write him so badly out of character to the point that he's totally unrecognisable; then introduce a character that we're meant to care about after he/she brutally kills the former loved and understood character, despite the fact that he literally had just saved his/her life?! As if that isn't enough, we're now forced to play as this terrible character for what seems like half of the game. Total bullocks!,This is the worst story telling and characterisation I've experienced in any video game... an utter disgrace of a release; especially in view of most of the shamelessly hyped up and  obviously paid (with money, favours...) critic reviews.,Why on earth does an apocalypse game about infected zombies prefer to lay more emphasis on lgbtq relationships and sex? Even if it was straight sex that should not be the focus of such a game, especially being a sequel to such an awesome first game that also had lgbt characters - albeit it wasn't the focus of the story and characters.,Even the fan favourite Uncharted series with only straight characters does not have that forced narrative on the players either, it's solely about the story, characters and gameplay - not forcing us to be the disgusting villain and perpetuate all her/his unwarranted evil acts with absolutely no pay off!I've been a huge fan of Sony and playstation for almost 2 decades and this shambolic failure is almost unforgivable. #NoBotsHere
658) Just end the game. The Art is awesome but Last of Us was always about the story and now is so silly. I actually don't mind about the obvious leftist agenda on it, but force it to a level that can literally ruin the entire story ? I had enough of Naughy Dog.
659) I have been waiting for 7 years for this game and in the end i'm heartbroken and sad. it's not about what happened it's about how it happened which was done very poorly.
660) Don't recommend wasting $60 on this game, you can get so much better for less
661) Deleted and returned the game after they forced the character to kill a crying, yelping dog.  0/0 will not buy from developer again.
662) I want to rate this game as 4 but the second half of the game just a forceful story and nothing working out in that part and the non-sense ending makes it a 4. But in the end the complete non-sense "Forceful" story makes this game as a total 0. Don't waste 25-30 hours of your life into this. It doesn't worth it while so many other things that you can do to improve yourself in this life.
663) Game is fun to play and graphics are incredible! With that said its such a terrible story. Plot holes on some characters decisions. Probably worst ending. Completely disregarding what their characters meant to people. Just bad writing. The game over all was okay. Just ok.
664) Horrible game. The plot is deeply flawed and makes absolutely no sense. Cannot live up to its prequel.
665) As a fan of the first game, this has to be the most disappointing sequel I have ever played.,This story uses the nostalgia of the first game to set an emotional tone for a story which has no relation to the first. Despite seeming to presume Joel was morally wrong at the end of the first game (which I do not!) the vaccine or cure has no impact on events, much like everything else from the first game. Instead, the new character of Abby, has the whole first game shoved as a simple backdrop to her motivations, and is desperately painted as a sympathetic character. Not only does her child murdering father save a zebra (awww) but she likes dogs too (awwwwwwww), but none of this is going to make anyone who liked Joel, think this justifies his murder. The murder, in trying to be gritty, misses key story telling and character opportunities, and signals the poorly thought out story which continues for far too long into this game. The story, a fumbled attempt at a 'revenge is bad' story, fails to understand human nature, basic philosophy (let alone theology) and so unwittingly spirals into a nihilistic mess, which by its very definition leaves you with nothing of true meaning at the end. The story of the first game had both strong male and female characters, the sequel discards both and finishes with nothing. Even Dina, introduced in the original's DLC, and seeming to have a strong role at the start of the sequel, is ploughed over by the Abby narrative, underdeveloped until she quietly leaves unseen. The game tries instead to make you care about a new cast of cliched and shallow characters. A pregnant fighter, an aquarium loving simp, faceless people who now all have names, but no personality are what we are given. It seems the apocalyptic world lacks its vikings, genghis khans, and bundys. That might be a bit dark for a game? Maybe, but that is precisely the tone this game thinks it is giving, but in truth shows a very shallow understanding of... well anything. The clickers, surely the best part, are thrown in from time to time, but are seperate from meaningful attachment to story.,The game play is disappointingly similar to the original, and the added stealth and jumping make very little difference (when people are cheering rope physics, alarm bells should ring!). The game does have its great moments and the graphics are very good (although overrated). These two points would give it a higher rating, 4/10 maybe, but what took away from my enjoyment of the game while playing let alone replayability, was the accusations online from journalists and developers themselves that I had not played the game, or was prejudice, or was a russian asset. Followed by the striking down of reviews online, in order to push the game, and the false advertising from the trailers, which had me pre-order (Do you think I'd let you do this alone?....yes, you're dead, I am doing the next 30 hours without you). The 10/10 reviews are ridiculous, and have signalled the death of gaming journalism . On top of that Niel Druckmann is just insufferable, and his narrow minded conceited tweets have not only put me off this game but also the original and any sequel planned. It will be interesting to see if metacritic remove this review or not. The reviews reflect a very angry fanbase, and lack of understanding, let alone sympathy, will be the downfall of Naughty Dog. Many of the fans fawning over it as a 10/10, I can only assume never understood the first game properly. Instead they are fair weather fans, applauding (or crying over) whatever new release they can join the club of, and tossing the old one to the side.,If Sony and Naughty Dog do not view this as a disastrous step for them, both in terms of the game, and how they have handled criticism/marketing, then their future will come crashing down as the destroy all the franchises they worked hard to build, and the old fans will cheer and the fair weather fans will already have moved on.,0/10,,Finally, play the guitar left handed you idiot, or play it 3 fingered like Django Reinhardt (The World Famous 3 fingered guitarist!!)!! This 'poignant' ending is shockingly dumb, nihilistic, and rather pathetic. If you want a good story about revenge and its effects, read the Count of Monte Cristo.
666) This is a joke. Dull gameplay that hasn`t changed since 2013. God-awful story. The reliance on graphics instead of interesting combat and likable characters. And this is what we get after 7 years of waiting?,This game should have never been released.
667) The storyis very very very **** the ending is **** the gameplay is ggod the graphics is good but the story is ****
668) funny things is :",neil druckmann said player have to think twice before killing someone! yeah ,you can spare or kill abby's father but they're forced you to kill him no matter  you try to avoid it ! in some area in game , enemy get spawned then run straight to your location and try to kill you ! the game is basiclly forced you to do thing they want then judge you as a bad person without any choice to make ! neil should learn from metal gear solid franchises how to make a game that let you decide enemy's fate ! in the future i think you shouldn't buy the tlou 3 or uncharted 5 because i hear that many peoples who work for tlous 1 and uncharted has leave naughty dog ! that mean may be you can get a new sequel but it's lack of souls and they just put old name on it to steal your wallet! like konami did with metal gear survive! bad writing and disrespect to the first game !
669) The second part is very worst, I don't like, I waste my time and my money with this ****
670) This game is ruined my favorite character on PlayStation. i recommend to wait for a sale o skip all together .
671) How could they kill Joel and make us play as a psychopathic serial killer????
672) I and many others sadly waited for this unfortunate and poorly written story. I saw Joel as a second father to me, but to watch him be brutalized for the sake of shock value is upsetting to say the least. We did not wait 7 years to play as Abby. We waited 7 long years to play as Joel and Ellie. When I played my first and only playthrough of the game, I had no prior knowledge to the leaked spoilers. I avoided them because I trusted Naughty Dog to make a compelling and lovable story as the first. I was let down, my heart ripped out, and my dreams crushed just like Joel. We are not homophobic, racists, or bigots like the Naughty Dog team wants to believe we are. We are merely people who want a small ray of hope in the dark times we live in. The first game captured it perfectly. But, The Last of Us Part 2 is a heaping pile of misery porn and forced, manipulative narrative that jams unnecessary messages down your throat. Truly a shame, since the game looks beautiful.
673) I have no words... you guys destroyed the best game i ever played on PS3 and PS4...worst history ever made.
674) Repetitive gameplay and a story that disrespects its characters and the player. Bad game
675) This game is horrible, from the start to the finish, Druckmann terminate all families, emotional connections and charaters... it has no one good fã service at all, a desgrace literally, If u like the First, please, please, dont play this piece of ****
676) Disappointment of the year...................................,.............
677) I hate this game. It breaks my heart, i waited 5 years this ugly monster to play.
678) Spoilers ahead.,,So, in this game you're forced to sympathize and empathize with a new character, Abby, which father you killed in the first game as Joel. The doctor was the only (...) doctor who were able to safe the world (...).,Joel dies in the first ~ 2 hours of the game, which i'm fine with. I'm also fine with how he dies.,But i'm not fine with playing for 10 - 15 hours with this annoying new super hulk character (Abby), in which i have zero interest in. Neither do i have any interest in any of their friends.,,I wanted do enjoy and play the game as Ellie, but nope. Play as Abby and feel what she feels. There were not a second i gave a **** about her.,,The most annoying thing is the end of the game:,You, as Ellie, have a fist fight against Abby. On the way finding Abby you killed hundred of people, just to get her location and get your revenge. Then, you finally reached your goal and find Abby, you're fighting her and you're about to drown her, but then, you stop. Because revenge is bad and you feel bad if you kill her.,WTF.,Anyway: Plot holes and bad writing everywhere. Glad i got the game physically and can sell it again.
679) Don't spend your money in this garbage, good Graphics, beautiful enviroment BUT awful history... nonsense, boring, cheap soap opera. Characters unlinkeables, forced to interact, offensive for fans TLOU 1st Part.,20 hours game, but 10 hours cinematics... And the ending... The worst final in a videogame... Don't but this garbage
680) Story is trash. I give this game one point for graphic. Critics 10/10 rating is lie.
681) If I could give this game negative reviews I would. I have no problem with the voice actors, Abby, or even the agenda they pushed heavily onto our plates. I gave it a chance so I could at least say my peace. My problem is with the people who thought this game was the best they could possibly come up with. The graphics are stunning, the music is beautiful, and the story.... blows. Literally blows. How can you manipulate everyone who loved Joel dearly showing us you guys putting Joel in the main trailers and having the audacity to put him on the tin game case with Ellie for more false advertising. And then when you play the game they proceed to kill him off 2 hours into the game and Abby screaming at him “do you know who I am!?” I can’t believe you’re okay with this and think it’s a fantastic game. Neil druckmann ruined this game for everyone who painstakingly avoided trolls and spoilers for years and this is the best you can come up with?! I hope no one buys another game from naughty dog because you just lost everyone who stood by you since Jack n daxter like myself. I deleted the game once I finished and it left a bad taste in my mouth. To kill Joel, to spit on Joel, and to spit on us to play his killer for half the game. You should be ashamed for the false advertisement to the loyal fans that’s backed you through the years and the micro transactions in TLOU. I will never buy another game from naughty dog because you lied, once you lie you’ll just do it again with another game right? Maybe when Neil isn’t in the top seat I’ll give a view to your trailers and actually look through the leaks and spoilers when the time comes. In finality, I would just like to say, I hope no one else pads your companies pockets again and returns TLOU2.
682) if the story is bad the whole game is 0 for me it doesnt matter if gameplay is good i dont care PIECE OF TRASH
683) The only good thing about this game is the gameplay and the graphics they ruined the last of us forever this storytelling was bad they killed the most beloved character and made the second most beloved character all alone and **** mentally and physically I get it they showed that revenge is bad and lev and **** abby are like joel and ellie and with killing abby you won't get joel back but abby did the exact things and had a happier ending than ellie the main character I loved the last of us 1 and I couldn't wait to play tlou 2 but they just ruined it they could do the best thing possible but they ruined it I mean  they forced us to choke the character we love and care about . that's not how videogames work
684) The first game was god tier but this one was well ****  The story was mediocre and the ending is well if I could give it a negative score I would.  The only reason I gave this game a 2 was because of the gameplay,  the lack of glitches, graphics and environment. The irony is that the developers wanted to focus on the story and not work on multiplayer and they colossally screwed up the story, so no excuse for a ****ty story.  Save your money don't buy the game, I'm gonna try to get a refund on the digital purchase.  I don't know if I will buy a third game if it comes out.
685) I had high hopes for TLOU2. Sad to see how it turned out. The gameplay/graphics are the only redeeming qualities. Some of the music is alright. But the plot and characters are such utter **** that it ruins the entire thing. Also, playing as Abby was awful. I don't care about this chick at all. I wanted her to die the entire time. The fact that Elle never gets her revenge was even more insulting. **** this game.
686) Made an account just for this review, this game had the potential to be epic, instead, it has both the worst beginning and the worst ending at the same time. This is truly a magnificent and masterful pile of flaming fecal matter.
687) A lengthy and poorly presented story, sjw, less memorable music. Only graphics and gameplay are good in the game.
688) Beautiful gameplay! The WORST story and direction I’ve ever known in any game series! If the director still works for the company I hope it won’t be for much longer. I feel cheated and let down by this game it’s absolutely awful and I can’t say anymore without swearing.
689) I really loved the first Game, But this was less than nothing. The ending was the worst.
690) Terrible game. Avoid at all costs. The graphics are mediocre, the gameplay is clunky and the story is a cliche'. I found the characters boring and the atmosphere of the game was uninteresting to say the least.
691) Never had buyer's remorse so bad! Waited for so long only to be so deeply disappointed. Naughty Dog might as well have just put a knife in my heart, It wouldn't feel any different. They've totally destroyed one of the best told stories ever made. I feel nothing for this game but betrayal. Save yourself the pain and just pretend its release was cancelled, the disappointment of that alone is nothing compared to let down you'll face playing it.
692) I wish this game was different, but it ain't.. I'm unable to play it again and I really tried to, such a disappointment it completely ruined the franchise..
693) This has to be one of the most disappointing sequels of all time, disrespectful to the first game and all that it stood for. The story is poorly executed and full of plot holes. The characters that we've waited 7 years for are shadows of their former selves and act idiotically. I feel mislead by false advertising, I bought this game for a story about Ellie and Joel, a story about revenge. I play as another character for half the game that I despised for brutally torturing and murdering my favorite character 2 hours into the game. How an earth was this approved of. The second half of the game was a drag and suffered from some of the worst pacing issues I've ever had the displeasure of experiencing. What also made the original game so special were the side characters, how they were all stellar in their own unique ways. They truly were a gift, I can name every single one of them and remember why I liked them years later for how impressionable they were. Every single one of the new characters lacked depth, I just didn't care and by the time you start growing any connection to them they all are maimed or die. What in the hell were they thinking skipping the 4 years we actually were interested in. They rely so much on shock value and shoving a message down your throat that they sacrificed a well thought out streamlined plot with phenomenal character development which is why most people loved the 1st game. I just felt nothing for these characters. At every moment I see violence is bad. look here abby collects coins, there's two sides to every story, I DON'T CARE. Look you killed Abby's dog now go play fetch with it. I DON'T CARE.  It's so manipulative. Look she's pregnant, dead. Feel bad, Ellie bad after Ellie ACTUALLY kills her in self defense. Look at what you've become, let abby live, PISS OFF. After everything I don't even get to kill Abby the psycho who feels no regret after anything she did, at least Ellie was questioning herself, shaking and puking. In the words of the pregnant lady "You're a piece of **** Abby". Shooting someone who save you with a shotgun and hitting them with a golf club, shooting children, sleeping with people in relationships, being so great at killing you're one of the highest members of the WLF.,She got revenge and got away with Lev, Ellie doesn't get revenge losing everything. Miserable game, It's the death of the franchise for many. It already needs to be remade. I've never felt so disappointed with a game ever. I've never felt the need to review a game until this one. I really wanted a great sequel or no sequel at all, this has tainted the 1st game for me which is my favorite game of all time.  That was my worst fear.
694) This game is an insult to the first one and all of the first games fans. It’s dreadfully bad and I’m sad to say this since I’ve been looking forward to it since they first teased it. I regret buying it day one and not wait for user reviews.
695) The fact that the critic reviews are strictly 100s while the user reviews are as you would expect... reminds me of Dave Chapelle's "Sticks and Stones" special.,The story telling is very subpar. The game is a product of cultural marxism and it is sad to see what they have done with the game.
696) It is an attempt towards human intellect.. It ignores every single social and human values.. Its mediocrity is immeasurable.. I don't care if a story is sad or anything like that.. I don't say that there should always be  a happy ending.. But this is just a huge misuse of art... So pathetic..
697) Cutting edge graphics but the story is so bad, game of thrones season 8 standard. Wasted $60
698) Story is literally trash. Plot holes and the characters have no link with the first game, they are completely different.
699) I waited 7 years to finally play this game. The Last of Us 2013 is my favorite game of all time. It's such a shame that Bruce Straley is no longer at ND. He was the one that made Last of Us and Uncharted 4 such good games. But with him leaving after UC4 released, it's easy to see what happened. Druckmann was able to make the worst game of all time with no one to tell him he was creating something bad. The media gives it high scores because of the "woke" agenda and propaganda in the game. Actual gamers that loved the first game give it a bad score because It IS a terrible story. Great gameplay, but not a good game. The story is why we liked Part 1. And the story in Part 2 is a bastardization of the characters we knew and loved.
700) A very weak story.  Homosexuality has no need.  Insulting to strong personalities.  New and ugly characters do not know how they come to this part and became half story of this **** part . There is not feeling of characters like the previous part. Gameplay weak and became not realistic how give regular people head d shoot and they still runing and attacking me.
701) Story is garbage. They act like players are 7 year old kids. Do NOT buy. Put your money on something better.
702) Played the 1st game, felt betrayed, the story choices are as frustating to me as a fan as last jedi was, some of the gameplay is clunky 7 year gap and no improvement in the gameplay.,,The game is gorgeous, voice acting is good, however this doesn't feel like last of us, or even a good game at all.
703) If you like pre production, if you like games, if you are a normal person, please do not buy this game. Because you will waste your time, your money, your feelings and your life. It's also bad for your physical and mental health because of anger and disappointment. Because the story of this game is veryveryvery disgusting!
704) Way too soon to kill of joel and wtf was that sex scene with the self insert of the game director. Weird
705) I was looking forward to this game like crazy because I believe the first game was one of  the best games I have ever played.  I intentionally ignored all the drama prior to release because I wanted to give this game a fair shake. I wanted to Love This Game, I really did. However, in its current form, this game however, is HOT GARBAGE. Joel deserved better and it was kind of pathetic watching a Neil Druckmann "lookalike?" inserted into the game. The game does in fact LOOK gorgeous and runs very well, make no mistake, but those are the only good things I have to say about it. You can tell where Anita Sarkeesian's political drivebys were infused into the narrative,  The PC / SJW ridden story is horrible, the characters are mostly wooden or stereotypes of "Super Wahmen" or fall victim to the latest "White male leads or major characters are so 1990s, let kill them off" mantra and the dialogue in general, is just atrocious. This game is literally an enduring self-licking ice-cream cone that shoves identity politics down the players throat without a break.  There was a 10 or so hour stretch that felt like the worlds biggest side / fetch quest.  I had to force myself to finish it simply because I wanted it of the hard drive. This game nether respects the original characters nor does it pay any homage to any of them.  Save your money, save your time, and play the first one over again and pretend that that ending is the canonical one.
706) The whole thing is like watching a train wreck except you absolutely feel compelled to look away.
707) great atmosphere. gameplay, music,terrible plot and characters,if you mix honey with poop - you get poop.,and Last of us 2 gets 0 out of 10
708) The whole story conflict with the setting of the main character. Every character went crazy for serving Neil's story. Abby's pregnant friend slaughtered by Ellie, but Abby still spare Ellie's life in the theater like crazy! Tommy tried to protect Ellie and let her stay away from revenge, but in the end, the crazy Tommy even forces married Ellie to revenge, again! AND have a family with Dina, Ellie should be able to understand more about "Joel's love to family, to her". But the crazy Ellie who even spared life by Abby TWICE, but still, abandon her family to revenge!? If Ellie can even abandon the love to her family for revenge, then, how could Ellie let Abby go when Joel's image flashing in mind? The craziest part is cunning like Joel says his real name to an armed group. Every character has gone insane with Neil. What a trash story ruin the while game!!
709) Gameplay is fine, graphics are great, but the story, the way it is structured, it just cannot work, and ruins retroactively what the previous title set up. For me the story was the main selling point of this series, and because of that I'm hugely disappointed, and honestly also somewhat angry. If you don't care about the story though, you might enjoy it.
710) The gameplay is improved, but mostly the same as in the first game. The story is fantastic, emotional and terrifying all at once. It was all I hoped for in the sequel to my all time favorite game.
711) What a way to end the franchise...in the first 2 hours of the game by totally ignored the character personality from the first game.
712) very disappointed story and dialogues from naughty dog.,the same simple gameplay from 7 years just shoot and move on.,the pacing is **** up.,the ending doesn't matter and you won't care anymore about anything or anyone.,the characters are lame and couldn't attachment with their story even Eille's.,killing Joel in a very dumb scene.
713) Worst game ever made and worst story ever written I regret that I bought this game every day!
714) This game is a mess from the very beginning. The way that Joel was killed was completely out of character and a spit in the face to anyone that completed the first game. I had a feeling going into this game that Joel would die, but it’s how he went out that is a sorry excuse for shock value. And the worst part is that this isn’t even the reason why most people including myself are upset. We all waited 7 years to play Ellie’s story only for it to be interrupted by a 10 hour sequence that disengages you from the plot in hopes of changing your already despicable view of the game’s worst character. Instead of embracing Abby’s point of view, I found myself cheering at any misfortune that came her way. The game tries so hard to make the player empathize with Abby and feel compassion for her but completely fails. Even by forcing you to save the life of two children, play fetch with dogs, and watch her lose all of her friends, I still wanted nothing more than for Abby to die at the end of the game. Which brings me to my final point... I almost could’ve forgiven every other mistake or missed opportunity in this absolute dump truck of a story. But when the ending finally arrives after 30 hours of a dragging narrative, Ellie’s choice to let Abby go ruins any last chance this game had. It left me feeling unsatisfied and wishing I had never even played it. Gameplay and graphics alone have never been able to carry a linear narrative game like this before and this is no exception. People don’t buy PlayStation exclusives looking for the best looking or feeling game ever. People buy PlayStation exclusives because they have always told an incredible story and given us characters that we feel a connection to. The Last of Us Part II not only didn’t do that, but actually diminished a little bit of that great reputation. I highly recommend people to not purchase this game as I think they will find it a journey of disappointment and dissatisfaction.
715) I ignored the initial backlash and gave this game a chance. But I was blow away by how vapid and insulting the story is. What an absolute joke.,,Well... At least now I know that revenge is bad, right? ಠ_ಠ
716) I tried as hard as I could to like this game, but I couldn't bring myself to like it.,,There's a huge dissonance between gameplay and cutscenes that really make this story less believeable than the first.,,Ellie, the main protagonist is fine with killing hundreds of people with no remorse or regrets during gameplay, but the moment a cutscene start... she feels regret? I'm sorry what about all the people you killed on your way there?,I had a hard time getting invested in that game, I pulled myself through it and regret wasting my time on it.,,Please, save yourself these $60 and don't buy it digital or new, if you REALLY want to play it, buy it used for cheap.
717) The history used to be the main point in tlou 1, but on this one it is just bad!
718) Imagine watching the original trilogy of Star Wars where you follow the story of Luke Skywalker all the way up till Cloud City where he has his first duel against Darth Vader, only to have the scene cut away as Luke and Darth Vader draws their lightsaber. Now imagine spending the next 12 hours watching the prequel trilogy before you're allowed to watch the duel unfold. This is what it feels like to play TLOU2.,,The problem with TLOU2 is that it contains two stories but the game is only capable of telling half of each. When a game sells itself as a narrative-driven game the story is the crux of the game. No amount of great graphics and good gameplay can save a horribly broken story.,,A story begins, and end with, its characters. In TLOU1 we are given the whole game to explore and develop the relationship between Joel and Ellie. It allows us enough time to understand the characters and connect with them on an emotional level. Not so for TLOU2. In TLOU2 we are given half the time to interact with two sets of characters from different POVs. The game did not give us time enough to care for any of the new characters. This is made abundantly clear when the crux of the game's story is told over 3 days of game-time, as opposed to the year we spent as Ellie and Joel in TLOU1. TLOU1 gave us plenty of idle dialogues between Ellie and Joel  throughout the game while also providing us with meaningful interaction between the two characters in cutscenes. TLOU2 did not do justice to any of the relationships between the characters. Playing as Ellie, we never get to experience how she develops her relationship with Dina and Jesse. We as players are just told they're our new companions, with very few actual on-scene interactions that portrays their relationships in a meaningful way. On the other hand, while playing as Abby, the game keeps relying on flashbacks to tell us why we should care about these new characters but their execution just jars you out of the moment instead of keeping you in the moment. The end result is players are left wanting for a more fleshed-out relationships between all the characters.,,Going into the more nitpicky bit, how did Ellie and Dina managed to setup their farm house in such a hostile environment? It is clear that the farmhouse isn't a 5 minute walk from Jackson since Tommy showed up with his backpack, implying there is quite a bit of travel involved to get to the house. What made even less sense was the house was left practically untouched upon Ellie's return. Someone who knows Dina lived could've asked to live in that sweet real estate since Dina decided to leave it. The alternative would be the house should've been overrun by clickers or occupied by some hostile bandits in the intervening time between Dina leaving and Ellie returning. How exactly did the house remain so pristine?,,Another nitpicky bit I had issue with was who in their right mind would send and/or allow a pregnant woman to participate in combat? Never mind that the pregnant woman is the best doctor they have in a post-apocalypse world. Naysayers are gonna swarm in and say 'she wasn't sent on a combat mission' but that's just **** The moment they leave the safety of their base they are entering a hostile environment and are prepared for combat, or they wouldn't have armed themselves to the teeth. There were also a few instances were any normal pregnant woman not named Mel would've suffered a miscarriage if they were put in the exact same situation, but Mel being Mel, she is able to shrug off the inconvenient realities of being pregnant and just keep going.,,The last nitpicky thing is the ending. The game tries to setup Ellie and Abby as two sides of the same coin, mirroring each other throughout the game. In their first encounter Abby let Ellie go because she had no idea who Ellie was, and this sets off Ellie's revenge quest. The second time they encounter each other Ellie has killed all of Abby's friends, and Abby again decides to let her go. The third time they meet Ellie was on the verge exacting her revenge, only to let Abby go at the very end. Since they are a mirror of each other, who is to say Abby won't later decide to come back and seek vengeance against Ellie for all her friends Ellie killed? Ellie had a nice life with Dina in the farmhouse and decides to throw it all away to pursue Abby. Abby, being a mirror of Ellie, could do the same thing seeing as she held onto her grudge against Joel for 4-ish years.
719) TLOU2 takes a complete u-turn on the narrative path that was established in TLOU. Characters in TLOU2 by contrast to are too one dimensional with dialogue equality matching their characterization. By setting up a revenge plot early on in the game,  the gameplay becomes a boring quest of getting from A to B, clearing out NPCs and figuring out exits. There is hardly any magic that held the original game together and after playing this game I was left with a sense of frustration and grief for the story that has been hijacked and taking on a really weird trajectory. Very sad at having wasted my time and money on this lousy excuse of a sequel.
720) The story just ruins every other part of the game for me.  It just so nonsensical and pandering that nothing else really shines through it.
721) Could have been so much more. The graphics and gameplay are brilliant but story and gameplay take a backseat while identity politics and woke ideology take control of this train wreck. This game is "the last of us" in name only. What a shame.
722) Wow! What have you done?!!!!!,Naughty dog just become another EA another Bethesda another Activision another NO-NAME.,1. False advertising is just plain disgusting. There are just no words for that. As I said ND just has become another NO-NAME.,2. Killing off the most beloved character that who played and loved TLOU cared about and played the game for is plain stupid. Especially this way.,3. ND just made another Call of Duty. Senseless killing room to room from place to place without story is another Call of Duty.,4. It is true. It takes 7 years to become something and ND proved it true again.,ND just become another one. Nothing special. Just plain 0.,,But we have hope.,And it is called:,CD PROJEKT  RED
723) I know it's just a freakin' game and should put aside my emotions when rating but I found the game very very depressing when compared to the first game. I don't mind the ultra-brutality of the gameplay but in the story, there is tragedy after tragedy after tragedy and it almost never stops. And i must admit that when Joel died I got really depressed. Characters die one after another. There is not a moment of relief or even a glimpse of it because as you play the game you can already assume that everything will end bitterly.,,To a newcomer of this game I would likely recommend this but to those who have played and loved The Last of Us Part I, I give this warning that this sequel is something that may probably devastate you. But if you are brave enough, be sure to try this one and if you are not then pretend that this sequel does not exist at all and Joel and Ellie are still living peacefully ever after.,,Respect and Peace!
724) I liked the character who pretended he was a woman, shame there was not much more to like, collecting hormones in the apocalypse seems pretty silly.
725) By far the most disappointed I've ever been in a game. Graphicly this game is a work of art, Narratively however this is an abomination. Butchering beloved characters with the worst cases of character assassination I've seen since the Last Jedi. Trying to force you to like characters you despise and that have the personality of a wet blanket. Naughty Dog had 7 years to craft a worthy sequel and failed in all the places that matter. I would not recommend this game unless you like watching a beautiful train-wreck.
726) Trash, I wish I NEVER played this game before. Story is poorly written, everything is political driven. Worst game EVER!!!! Nightmare!!!
727) All right, folks, I'm not saying that this is the worst game ever just because of the death of Joel or because of Ellie transformed into a stupid selfish a**ole character, but I made an account here just to say that this game is literary one of the most disappointing games in the history of mankind because the events in the plot pop up out of nowhere and happen so randomly without any preparation and they make no sense. Repeat after me, they make no sense. Any moron can write a story that the plot happens as they dream without reasonable facts. The thing that makes a story legendary is that the writer is so talented that gives you logical reasons for any event they show, otherwise anyone, literary anyone can write a story. The true art is to find the acceptable reasons for what goes on in the story to make it feel real. On the other hand, the art is not just wishes of a psychopath mentally ill person like Neil Druckmann who just wants to convey his personal thought about life to the audience by using a masterpiece as his microphone, no matter how the first game was, no matter what actual theory the first game had, and no matter how the characters of the first game were developed and defined. As you see, he is using games to express his thoughts and ideologies about life; he doesn't care about the first game. He just sees it as a tool. That's what he did with the trailer. They showed us Joel in the trailer, they used Joel to hype us, to motivate us to buy the game, but in the actual game, Joel has no effective part in the game and dies at the very beginning as a stupid careless no experienced person.,So, I'm saying this aloud: I hope Naughty Dog removes Neil Druckmann from the company, otherwise, that's the company's end of awesomeness.
728) awful game ever.. No respect for last game... do not waste your money to buy this game..............................
729) A steaming crap taken on the original game. Yes the art and music is fantastic (when it's not being ripped from a different creator without credit), however the story itself and the murder (both figuratively and literally) of beloved characters is just terrible. Let's start easy. Joel was **** in this game. They changed his entire way of thinking in order to get him in the position for Abby to kill him. Remember back when Joel got mad at Ellie for using her real name when they met Sam and Henry? Yeah none of that comes to play when he gladly gives his name to Susan Strong... Ehem I mean Abby. Next, the massive plot armor that Dina AKA "The Nose" and Abby have. It's beyond unreal. There is a scene in the game where The Nose shoots someone and then falls through a window. The other enemy holsters his weapon and goes over to strangle her instead of shooting her. There is no reason for this aside from giving Ellie a chance to stab him. The same thing with Abby surviving all those infected and somehow Joel showing up to save her. Even worse is the scene of Abby killing Joel when Ellie walks in. She stands and watches for many seconds. This isn't what her character would do. We saw it plain and simple when she saved Joel's life in the hotel in the first game. They even reference it in this piece of garbage but for some reason she can't rely on those lighting reflexes when Hulk Hogana... Ehem I mean Abby, is at the end of the barrel. The writing in this game is lazy at best and just plain stupid at worse. Another nitpick of mine is that this is not a romance game. Never was never will be. This game is about survival and the (very sloppy) romance that the writers try to add in doesn't help the game at all. It makes it feel rushed and unfinished. Much like the rest of the game. The story and plot armor aside the mechanics have not really improved. You can dodge, you can lie down, and She Rah... Ehem I mean Abby, can break your neck like a toothpick. That is the only improvement to the mechanics. It's still  just the same animations over and over throughout this empty world and with a story that can't even hold itself together without pulling a GoT "let's kill beloved characters" it doesn't work.
730) I hope the next game you make will be focused on players who actually will give reviews that the game deserves, not editors and mainstream game sites. The gamers review should be considered real and justified. I don't trust editors
731) The most controversial game and it ruins everything since the dead of Joel.. what a disappointment
732) Save yourself the heartbreak and don’t start this game. Garbage story, but the dumpster fire doesn’t start until you’re in pretty deep. Being forced to play as Abby (the antagonist) for 10-15 hours is beyond dumb. Zero stakes. Zero empathy. Apparently, zero understanding of the basic tenets of storytelling. Despite my undying love for TLoU#1, this is a DNF for me.
733) a criticao to check if the rummor es verdad mmmmm dont care this game , anyway i can review this game and that is stupid dont think?,,Are you ready, kids?,Aye, aye Captain!,I can't hear you!,Aye, aye, captain!
734) Very bad story and presentation  disappointment is immeasurable I waited  4 years.
735) I have completed the game and it was just so terrible. I never thought they could make it so bad. After 7 seven of development I can see why most of the staff left the company
736) The game itself as an adventure is good. But the plot of the game did not like me at all. Pour Joel on the second hour of the game-Joel who went with Ellie through a bunch of bandits, cannibals, etc. helps the first girl on steroids. After Joel's death, you are filled with hatred, and you go to get revenge. OK you play for Ellie and get used to it, but then the second part you play for Abby - for the one who so cruelly killed Joel, why, why, I want to end this part as fast as possible. Not once did I get the hang of Abby's story. Closer to the end, there is no strength to play, but damn it when it's over. And the ending is just complete **** you can't get back at Abby - there's just no way.,Another of the disadvantages is the obsession with LGBT topics, I do not condemn LGBT, but for me the game is clearly too much.,I miss Joel-the most adequate character in the game.
737) One of the biggest Jokes this year ha ha ha, made my day, really. Thank you nasty dog !
738) This is a narrative based game and it has one of the worst storylines I’ve ever seen in a game! The rest of the game is just the same tired and derivative stealth and action mechanics that have been done better in most other games. Only impressive work on display here is the graphics and that doesn’t impress me, because any game can have good graphics if it has enough finanancial resources allocated to it. A massive disappointment of a sequel to a great original!
739) What the creators did to the fan base of this game is a reflection of what they are. There's right ways to diversify and everyone gets tired of the same old thing but pandering with bad writing isn't the solution.
740) Worst sequel I have ever seen. Really bad writting. Absolute disrespect towards the 1st game
741) Awful game. Gameplay is boring, there are a lot of bugs in the game and the story... Seriosly, Neil Druckmann has no talent at all.
742) One of the most pointless sequels ever created. If they really wanted to shove abby down the gamers throats they should have given the option to kill her or spare her and made a more detailed ending. Avoid spending your hard earned money for what becomes a pointless and frustrating game in the end. If there is a next installment, and i think what they are going to make also removing ellie or making the game most cringeworthy, I will ignore it and just forget the fact that this franchise even existed. Thank you pigheaded naughtydog writers for ruining what could have been a great game.
743) This game is really bad, the only good things are the graphics but who cares about that? there are a lot of games with trash graphics and good stories and good gameplay, this game absolutely is a 0/10
744) I have been a gamer since 2001 till now and I played all kind of games almost in every platform and in my humble experience in games I can say one thing about THE LAST OF US II (IT IS THE BIGGEST MISTAKE IN GAMES HISTORY).
745) When it was announced 2016 that there would be a sequel in the future I was first really excited.,But as it tourns out I could barley bring myself to finish The last of us 2 since the story is so poorly written and the characters make, throughout the game, stupid decission that make no sense.,Hardpass don`t buy it and safe yourself 60 bucks.
746) The game has an awful story and was executed poorly. Couldn't believe the last of us 2 was made by the same company that made the first one. Definitely not worth your money, buy something else.
747) I cannot believe such trash can follow such a glorious title. its trash, RIP.
748) The first Last of Us was a 10/10 to me. This sequel has great game-play and visuals, but the story is not very good. I would have rated the game as a 3 or 4 out of 10 if it just ended around 12 hours in, but it forces you to switch roles and you have to play an additional 10-12 hours as the antagonist that most people don't care about or want to play as. I was not willing to do this and continue down this messy, boring road to the end of the uninteresting game (that I just wanted to end at this point at the 12 hour mark) so I uninstalled and lowered my rating down to a 1 because I just couldn't even continue. It was the equivalent of walking out of a theater because a movie is so bad. It's the least imaginative story I've ever seen and it all feels unnecessary
749) **** story. Don't try to teach me what's right or what's wrong.,Neil just spoiled one of the greatest franchise.
750) most asinine story I've ever encountered. game never should have been made.
751) This game gets way more hate then I think it deserves. I'm not a very good reviewer but I enjoyed playing the game. I think if you take a minute to see things in Abby's point of view, you really understand her intentions.  Its different from the first game but in a good way.
752) Neil, have I been waiting for this for seven years? Such garbage can be thought up in seven hours. You broke my heart, I hope you will not create anymore.
753) As a separate game with other characters, I would say that it is not bad. Not 10/10, but not bad. And this ... (in general, about the plot, everything else is gorgeous) nonsense, I do not perceive this as a continuation of 1 part.,P.S. Joel, we all lost =(
754) Beautiful graphics and art, but the plot is a spite to the face of the players, not only have nothing to do with the first one, is just nwo garbage with no sense to the first story, is just shameful because you can take away the zombies and post apocaliptic world and it will make no difference because that doesn't matter anymore.
755) I rarely give 0 to any game. Is this a game anyway? Yeah graphics is awesome. But so what? It's high time to sell PS4 as this game definitely confirmed that the mainstream game industry, which btw had gone in wrong direction long time ago already, is not going to step back at all. Each year games reach new lows. Trajectory has been chosen. Now only Nintendo games left, but if they start to wither.... hey! mid '80s - here we go again!
756) Stay away from this garbage. Poor writing - does the original an incredible injustice.
757) The story is very poorly written. I was all for the game (even with Joel dying) until I had to play as Abby for hours. I didn’t wait 7 years to play as a character that killed someone so special. The way Joel died didn’t even make sense. Tommy wouldn’t just give up their names to random people. This completely ruined my two favorite characters of all time, and barely even touched on their relationship and forgiveness struggles. This game was a total disappointment. Besides all of that, the game looked great and the mechanics were amazing.
758) This game is a joke compared to the first, kill all beloved characters, leave us with garbage, and dont forget the troll director already say that fans will not like.. wat?
759) it is laughable decreasing quality than the first one. where is 7 years gone?
760) The game starts with a cheap shot at anyone who ever cared.,,The writing is lazy. The characters have no depth but instead rely solely on their sexuality as if that is the only thing that is important about a person. Nothing new as far as game play goes.,,The graphics are the highlight. The game is dark for the sake of being dark and has nothing important to say. The first game was a masterpiece. I believe they fired or suppressed any real talent this team had for the first game and that is a shame.,,They will point to sales and claim a success but you won't get people back for a third trip after this. Any sequel was going to sell well after the first was such stellar piece of storytelling.,,This is a uninspired sequel that looked to cash in. It didn't have anything new to tell us or to show us and it forgot that it was the incredible bond of Joel and Ellie that endeared so many to the story....and then it punished you for caring in the first place.
761) There wasn't a need for a second part, the first game ended well. The poor development of the story and characters was a letdown for this sequel, such a shame. Don't try to justify this story, is just plain bad in every way.
762) This game has been made by genius programers who deserve the best. But one inept has ruined all their good work with they trash history
763) Terrible nongame, Neil did dirty to my boy Joel and tried to make him and Ellie as the villains which spits an insult to them when they aren't
764) How many years have I waited for this, only to find this horrible story? They destroyed everything they created in the first game and the worst part is that even with all this, Ellie didn't complete her revenge, she killed hundreds to get to Abby but still didn't get her revenge? After killing so many you don't want to kill her? rly devs? My only consolation is that in the future there is the possibility of one more game ... "the last of us 3", Ellie wakes up in the middle of the night and everything that happens in this game was a horrible dream, so she goes to Joel's house and forgives him ... and A GOOD STORY begins...,My disappointment is immeasurable and the history of my favorite game is ruined.,Shame on you devs :(
765) Imagine if those leaks never happened. Players would concentrate on the whole story, without specifying certain moments. No one would play the game with leaked scenes in mind. Just try to perceive the story as a chunk, not in pieces. Maybe THEN you will understand.
766) Just don't buy this trash its just not a good game it didn't do the first game justice at all the only good good part about this game was the graphics
767) No...just...no，Gameplay is good. Graphics is great but story~The story is really bad.,I can't play this game.
768) Spoilers. Spit in the face of everyone who loved the first game. On no green earth is this a good game by any stretch. You are forced to witness the death of a beloved character and then play as the murderer of said character all the while the game wants you to sympathize with them.
769) When I played the original The Last of Us  it was one of the most fun & exciting gaming experiences I had ever had.  In recent years, I have replayed the original game twice and enjoyed it again each time.   Needless to say I was really looking forward to Part 2.   For me it was a disappointment of epic proportions.  I strongly suggest you save your money.
770) Gameplay 10,Story: Disaster,I dunno what to say. I’m disappointed Abby suddenly SUDDENLY in a span of 48 hours does a complete 180!
771) Disappointed!! This game is trash that filled with political agenda, storytelling is so bad!!!!!!!
772) Just finished the game. Nothing you do matters. Don't waste your time and money on this garbage story.
773) I don't have anything to complain about gameplay but in story, Oh boy..,so many plot holes and dumb decision made by characters especially at the start of the game, i can not believe what i've watched, near the end i was not emotional at all because game's story became so **** i was laughing instead,UNBELIEVABLE
774) Its game has a lot of problems and the biggest problem is the first last of us. The first part has a good story, nice graphics, and interesting gameplay. I'm not a fan of is first part, but it was good and I waited for the second part and...It's this is the disappointment of the year. I believe that game is 4-5 points from 10, but the developers have created so much hatred around the game.
775) Imagine they announce Bad Boys 4 and within 5 mins of the movie they kill one of the two main actors, which build up the franchise and people watch the movies only because of those two.,,I want to point my middle finger deeply to ND, for delivering a game which destroyed one of the most loved and shared stories of the entire gaming industry.,,Whenever I thought about Last of Us, what came to my mind was a beautiful delivered story about a man and a girl, who let me be part of their amazing story.,,Ellie made Joel find a reason to love his life again, he found a reason to be alive, to live and find love .,This is what part 1 delivered.,What did part 2 deliver?,,Revenge, lots of revenge, and in the end they throw it away and tell you it's a part of "growing". That revenge brings nothing.,,One guy tries to kill an innocent girl, he decides about life and death, and then another guy decides about this guys life and death. After that the daughters from both of them do the same again but in the end they decide to let it go, because they won't get their fathers back. And that route took us 35 hours of redundant fights against zombies, wolfs and scars, over and over.,,Gameplay 10/10,Graphic 10/10,Story -1000/10,,Fu** Naughty Dog, you broke my heart and I will never forgive you. This game doesn't exist at all for me. The story endet with Part 1
776) I hate this game, I hate Sony, I hate Sony Fans. t breaks my heart to write this, but I really did not expect such a poor story after all these years of waiting. While there were a few genuinely good moments, majority of game filled up with plot holes. I
777) "Worst story ever. Naughty dog should be ashamed of themselves,the last of us part 2 is pure trash"
778) Game play is okay. The story line, story telling techniques and character development are horrible, absolutely make it the trash of the year.
779) This is Pathetic. Joel said it best there was a sequel wasn’t as good. Do not buy this game save your money
780) I wait 7 years for that? LGBT, Joel death. They spit in my face. I hope somone will be fired.
781) From a technical perspective, the game is fine, but the story is really bad and insulting to all that are invested in the characters from the first game. One gets a sense that the writer is trying to be clever, mistaking shock value for genuine emotional responses. A failure from start to finish
782) It breaks my heart to write this, but I really did not expect such a poor story after all these years of waiting. While there were a few genuinely good moments, majority of game filled up with plot holes. It just took elements of what worked for the first game without understanding what made them compelling.
783) Unfortunately doesn't improve gameplay at all with the first and introduces a new story with bad characters and nonsensical decisions.
784) Obv gameplay, graphics and sound are perfect.,But when a story is so bad like this it makes the game completely unplayable.,Replay the first game instead of buying this.
785) Big **** Story Way to much sexsism Ugly mussle Girl Way to High Price for the Short Time of **** Story  not enough new Stuff in the game Loot Loot Loot Loot ............ Yo no Multiplayer nur 79$€ Never buy again Naughty Dog im done
786) It's horrible to see a sequel to a narrative people fell in love with be torn apart in the name of a shallow theme. The cycle of revenge is not new, interesting, or profound. To sacrifice the potential of the sequel which has been so ingeniously built up over the last game was not at all worth the lesson/take away from the game.,,There are many arguments trying to justify and explain why things happened the way they did, but it doesn't matter. The reality is, **** chose this story. Out of the infinite possibilities he chose this story. Only he can answer why.,,But regardless of his reasons, he is out of touch with the fans. The fans that loved the beautifully crafted story of the first game are ignored and discarded for cheap shock tactics and a shallow message.,,Shame... Shame... Shame... Do not buy.
787) At first, the light departure, the later the challenge is more difficult, even very difficult for new players. Until I had to adjust it to the easiest level, it was still very difficult!?!?!?!?!,Mr. Joe died at the beginning of the game,The enemy has an unusually strong buff, even to the point where he is no longer a human or a monster.,Many episodes detail the obsessive thoughts of the characters excessively.,Players are always in focus and cared for to the level of braking. It guarded so tightly that there was no opening 1cm for the player to slip through to the screen
788) Avoided spoilers. Kept an open mind. Bought it. Tried it. Nope: Truly disgusted. A slap in the face to fans of the emotional core that made the original game great. What an unpleasant, joyless disaster. The story writers should be ashamed of themselves, and Naughty Dog should go bankrupt.
789) The main problem of the game is the plot, which is a terrible, stupid,  for which you can find a comparison only with reading Tolstoy in English, translated using the Google translator, and so that you believe me: you can start at least with this text
790) The surrogate father daughter relationship shared between Joel and Ellie was obviously ruined. It was almost as if they were strangers again. Nothing was fostered between them so he could be a placeholder for a more ambitious character. Character(s) that demand your attention and try their hardest to make their case to care about them. The great archetypes of the story from the first game are lost. The last of us part II thinks very highly of itself inside the story begging for you to take it seriously, but in the end its just a petty revenge story.
791) God awful writing. On my 2nd playthrough with new game +, so I don't want to hear, "Y0u DiDnT pLaY iT." It has its good parts, it has its great parts. Visually stunning, music is amazing, gameplay is very close to the first one. The ending was terrible. 30 hours of my life wasted, and you didn't even get to make a choice to kill Abby or let her go. You just let her go. Nevermind the hundreds of people Ellie killed along the way to get Abby, apparently they don't want revenge. The ending doesn't make sense.
792) It's just really bad and very inconsistent with the first game. Very disappointed
793) Just two hours ago, I already finished. I understood why the fans fell in love with the standard part),,I will be brief. During the passage of the sequel, I have a difficult feeling, and I will play the Game Tycoon product, when the developer will have many game points, and the rest of the game for the gameplay and quests would not have enough points.
794) This game is a piece of crap near FFVII... So  much hype for this waste of money.
795) disappointing, ruined the franchise. Joel and Ellie deserved a better story and the writers really baited fans with the lying trailers.
796) This game is absolute trash. I've loved every game from Naughtydog all the way back to Crash. This is the worst thing I've ever seen let alone paid for. They should offer refunds like movie theaters use to. Bait and switch.
797) Worst game sequel in the history of gaming!,,I'll keep this nice and simple.,-Music and sound design is pretty good,-Graphics are not something revolutionary, they are not bad but not perfect either. But overall a good looking game.,-Gameplay....is there really something to say about this? Same old boring copypaste of the first one with some minor changes. The infamous jump button, some guitar sections.,I've seen many people online and videos on YouTube talk and show how the game is a BROKEN piece of trash. So many glitches and bugs.,-Story....the worst part of the whole game. We waited 7 years for this. Boring characters, boring old rEvEnGE story which we've  TOTALLY NEVER seen before in a movie or videogame. Not just that but it executes it badly. The whole point is that revenge is bad, Abby gets her revenge and is awarded for it but Ellie goes through living hell and is punished for seeking her revenge. You literally cannot emotionally connect with the characters, and the way they try to make you to feel bad about your actions is so bad but not only that but they repeat it many times through the game. The way they try to make you sympathize with Abby is by making Ellie look like the villain, really shows their writing skills. The dialogue is so bad and the only way they could have done that to Joel was by making him stupid.,Don't believe those fake 10/10 who literally give no explanation for their score. Only thing you'll see them say is "masterpiece","game of the year","amazing story","don't listen to the haters". In other words they say "dude trust me". They don't back up their opinion at all unlike all the people who give it a negative score who explain why they did so.,Final words:,Complete garbage, a waste of time and money. Keep your money for Ghost of Tsushima or Cyberpunk.
798) A prime indication of how the critics are detached from the real world and don't deserve to be critics, the ideology forced here is just plain wrong and as I'm opposed to far left propogands I give this a zero
799) it is a game that you hate more and more the more you play it.,Weak story with a political agenda.,That was advertised with false advertising.,I feel like the developer tricked me into buying it.,And now he can not even stand up for his mistakes
800) Horrible game. Hate Abby. Honestly a pain to play, and that's not what video games are for.
801) I admit that graphics and technology are excellent, but developers and directors need to know that this game has a name of two and the sequel is made because of fans.
802) The Characters are ruined and Destroyed which we loved in the first one! Not like it!
803) Naughty dog had such a good thing going with the first game but they took the main characters we cherished and dragged them in the mud. Be it the physical torture and murder of Joel right in front of Ellie, or Ellie's wild goose chase through a city fighting two warring factions. All for nothing. And the nerve of naughty dog to try and make us feel bad for Abby by having us play as her for ten hours with hardly any context after doing what she did. And to top it all off, they try to crudely force propaganda in our faces while we're forced to kill dogs that we later play with in a flashback.,I'm not buying anything this studio is trying to peddle to us after this "hot pile of garbage", to quote Ellie.
804) This is not a happy Story and this is not written for you. But regardless of that, it's a compelling story nonetheless. It's a bold move for the team behind this to tell a story that pushes the boundaries of how games should be made and told. It's a revenge plot, sure, but it's narrative and character review and how real and raw it is depicted in that world makes all sense. It's a test of empathy, of breaking down biases, of looking at different perspectives and of walking a thousand miles on another persons shoe. It's that narrative and how well they handled it, and they make you feel things. It's a masterpiece. And the graphics, and the sounds and all of it is so good. While I do love this game so much and how good it is, it is a depressing game and you might want to take a few days, maybe weeks before you start all over again. But yeah, this game is perfect.
805) Very disappointing game, absolutely does not live up to the original. The writing takes a back-seat to propagandizing garbage and the autosave system makes the game way too easy, among many other issues.
806) Art is supposed to imitate life, not the social agenda of your chosen political party.
807) Forced and horrible, good to please a portion of the population. This game is a ****
808) If you want a game with a bad story, bad characters, unorganized relationships and recycled gameplay, this is your game.
809) Giving a zero breaks my heart. I wanted to love this game but the story ruins it. I’m not sure what made Neil Druckmann want to alienate his fan base by destroying his two beloved characters, but here we are.
810) You had a great story, it is very hard thing to ruin this masterpiece. I wonder if you take scenario from Tumblr? Your killed a great game for SJW's, although they probably never gonna play it. By the way, we know you gave money for reviews.
811) Garbage. Old and boring game play, boring walking sequences, narrative dissonance (our town has not much ammo but we hunt zombies with firearms, not with crossbows, bows, etc., there is apocalypse, the humanity is dying so we just watch lesbians having sex, little girls capable of killing strong entities almost with bare hands, etc., etc., etc.), boring mechanics that require zero strategical thinking.
812) A game that had everything to be the best game ever. Graphics and incredible gameplay but with a very bad story. They traded players for interests.
813) Whoever wants to play as Abby? No game time for Joel but they killed him instead. Minor improvements to gameplay and AI. Ellie could have just ended Abby’s life or left her to die while tied up in the pole. Ending is bad.
814) This game has a very good gameplay and graphics but very very awful story, filled with a lot of agenda, people are not stupid they are aware of it, they literally ruin last of us 2013 with this awful game.
815) I have finished the game and my advice to you is just wait until it goes under sales and don't waste your time and money.
816) They killed joel off what a joke unimpressed with the route they chose. The story was a mess and the characters were very hard to enjoy unlike the first 1.
817) I'm fan of the last of us! The last of us was amazing and awesome game! I think that impossible make bad game after so beautiful game like last of us! Tlou2 destroyed everything that we love in first game! They destroyed awesome story and make really b... Sh... T! Tlou2 is not the same that they show us on E3! They made downgrade of this game and it's look like that they used the same game and nothing add new in this game! But more funny how Selling more funny how Journalists try seedling this game before how they get money for that!)
818) I feel like this sequel had to have different writers or something. All of the character development was gone, an overwhelming amount of plot holes, sh*tty writing and execution, and on top of that the game play itself wasn't even as enjoyable as the first. Myself and many others expected so much more from waiting seven years after the first game. Incredibly disappointing.
819) They killed The Last Of Us with this ! I hope they will do better with PART 3 !!!
820) this game worth nothing...if u want to enjoy story. if not it's a good game with good graphic.
821) I will shorten my words, and I will not waste my time on this game. The game is the story. The trash is an oddity, God is upon you.
822) This game could be best, but story destroyed everything. I can't like this game
823) If you want to waste money this is the game for you, this is very delusional.
824) Game is boring. Don’t waste your money. Save the cash for the gen of games and consoles this is not worth it promise.
825) DONT PLAY THIS GAME! Playing this game will ruin your entire perception of the series.
826) Great graphics but the story is worse than the ending of the TV series Game of Thrones, The entire story is just a big mess and overall the story is unsatisfying. Unfortunately the game was just ruined all in the name of subverting the players expectations which is a story trope that has been overused in our media for the past 5 years and everyone is honestly sick of it because most of the time we actually expect that you are going to try and surprise us with the big "twist" and it ends up being an unsatisfying and boring end. The first game had such a great story and the second game just threw that story into the garbage instead of following our main heroes on their journey trough the world that was established in the amazing first game. (Also the bias towards the "new progressive characters" are just disgusting in terms of story writing (BEST EXAMPLE: they make Ellie kill dogs while the badly written excuse for a character gets to play fetch with a dog))
827) Another franchise destroyed. Anyone who has played the first game and felt the bond growing between Joel and Ellie will agree that this is a slap in the face. Joel dies almost instantly, giving us nothing, Ellie is portrayed as "evil" while Abby (the girl that kills Joel) is portrayed as a saint and they try so hard to make us like her. She sucks. She killed Joel. No one wanted any of this and it's just frustrating. Oh and you have to play as Abby for the majority of the game. FFS. Just do yourself a favour, go buy TLOU - Remastered and enjoy the original story of a bond between two unlikely characters, and the growth of a beautiful relationship.,,Also, Ellie doesn't even kill Abby at the end. Like what the ****?
828) SJW agendas pandering you name it , it's in here. I threw my copy away. I don't want political agendas or SJW crap in a game just tell an original story. Forcing you to play a trans is the cherry on top.. Never buy this even if its $1..
829) No respect shown either for main characters either for series fans. Poor writing killed the game, strong emotions were achieved by a very cheap moves and overall logic was absent. Second part of the game is quite simply a torture, just like the ending.
830) If you want a good revenge plot, go watch I Saw the Devil by Kim Jee-Woon - they're not the exact same plot, but go over the same tribulations of seeking revenge and what you lose along the way. Except I Saw the Devil doesn't bottle it at the end. Any poignancy TLoU2 tried to have on its fresh take of vengeance is lost in the pure fact that Ellie is forced to kill countless people in the pursuit of her vengeance on Abby, which in the end is moot.,,With that in mind and TLoU2's absolute shoddy judgement of what revenge can do, along with repercussions of past sins, you can expect, I'm sure, an onslaught of sequels and DLC to follow each characters off-spring all seeking vengeance on Ellie John Wick 2 style.,,The graphics look great, although nowhere near the best. The technical aspects of the game and animations absolutely shine. The gameplay is aged, not that far different from the first, and not an improvement on similar games like Tomb Raider.,,Story is a middle finger to the first game.,,This game is more of a 5/10 but rated it 0 in response to the deluge of perfect 10's people are giving it and the blind-sided media bias to give the game perfect scores. Less than a handful of score based reviews have actually critically reviewed the game and have instead opted to champion progressiveness at the expense of shining a light on its shortcomings. It begs to question if this game was not as inclusive as it is (and therefore in need of protecting) how earnestly reviewers would have been in regards to the games glitches, dated gameplay, insult to characters and the fans of those characters, and the pretentious plot which has been done to death in much better ways.,,What's worse is the media campaign to silence the voices of the FANS who care about these things, and instead to paint a huge brush over everyone is some sort of phobe or russian bot. It's not okay for fans to be disgruntled at a game and give low scores, but it would have been perfectly fine for the cowardly media (don't want to be blacklisted or to be seen as going against progressiveness!) to spew 10/10's all over the place without any questioning as to why?
831) First I like to talk about its gameplay, The gameplay of this game is extremely good, it is aesthetically pleasing to eyes  the sound quality is great and the visual looks good, the stealth mechanic and all the other aspect of this game regards to gameplay mechanics  is simple one of the best.,but when it comes to story this game is nothing but a blunder and because of this I am rating this game a 0/10 because a game like last of us in which it feels and looks like a tv series or a movie, Story is all that matters and if the story sucks then the whole game is just trash.,now where should I begin there are so many flaws i like to talk about but I want to keep this review as short as possible,First I'd like to talk about Joey, the main character of Last of us part 1 In which he was portrayed one of the intelligent  character but  in last of us 2 What The Hell happened  it became a duffer of some kind and a character as great as his dies just like that? thats not acceptable. now coming to the revenge part of this game, After joey death Ellie wants to take revenge on every single person who was responsible  for Joey death, so what she does? she goes  on a hunt kills everyone who was witness to joey death and were responsible, she even kills  a pregnant lady but when it comes to abby the main culprit behind Joey death she chooses to forgive and let go because revenge is bad?,I mean what? did I miss something? all that buildup only to push a cliche narrative(revenge is bad) that does not even make sense  in this scenario since she has already killed a ton of people even a pregnant lady at this point. this is Dog******* story design.,Now I'd like to address the politics  this game has how it looks like just a SJW propaganda, when you add too much content based on gender identity and sexuality in a game thats when you ****** up because games and comics are a way to escape from real word problems  and to relax, so when you start adding gender politics  in games and comics thats when you will face  extreme backlash because nobody gonna like these things in comics and games especially when it is  against their narrative and you start shoving it down to their throats. It was a post apocalyptic  world, there was no need to add such things  you could cut these things  and  the story would  have been better and maybe just maybe  you wouldn't receive  a backlash and a permanent stain to your franchise. I don't know why you felt the need to add these in the first place? was it to please the LGBT community or to piss off the gaming community and laugh at their faces?,If it was to please LGBT community then it sad to say you've done a pretty bad job because this game is getting a backlash even from people who identify as gay or lesbian.,and if it was to piss off the gaming community then i'd say you've done a fantastic job because you sure as hell pissed us gamer and it never ends  well I mean just look at the score we gamers have given.
832) I've played through the entire series all the way through. It's hard to believe that a good game came before this. This game feels like it dug up the corpse of the first game, skinned it, and is using its dead skin to hide from how horrible it truly is. May God have mercy to those that worked hard on this game for nothing.
833) What an awful sequel. Was so hyped after the first game and then they release this BS. Not sure if I should cry or not. Ruined franchise.
834) If you liked the first game do NOT buy this one, run away from it like its the devil its self.,You will hate the story due to some poor plot twits in the game that come more has a cheap shoot then an actual plot twist. The game play is basically the same but you can jump now hooray for innovation!,Graphics look amazing jaw drooping but it all goes to waste since you the story is probably one of the worst ever in gaming, you though the mass effect 3 ending was bad? Oh boy you haven't seen nothing.
835) One of the worst & disgusting game I ever played in my life. I wish I could give -10 rating, and I will leave it at that.
836) A very bad game with good graphics and music,The disrespect for Joel is unbelievable Ruined Ellie's character Playing 25hours for what...absolutely nothing.,Forcing diversity... Enough is enough this is disney star wars all over again. Screw this game and screw abby
837) a sequel that doesn't live up to the original, the story is just crap the gameplay is boring
838) Grate mechanic, good gameplay, and the narrative ruin everything, Tlos>tlos2
839) A bad Script, bad fisics, the game is"MI MI MI LACRAÇÃO"............. sjwvdurb
840) I wasted my time and money in the trash. This game is a disaster..The worst game of my life..
841) No no no nice try deleting me when i never said anything mean either just what i thought was honest and real very bad game.
842) Bruh bad righting and hole in one it just was not a good game also ign stop kissing up to everyone
843) **** game, fked up stories, forced to play unfavorable moments, pc everywhere
844) they just ruined the game, I bought it, and I regretted it, I even had difficulty reselling the game, not even for free, learn to make a script like the first one.
845) The entire game is a basic, generic revenge plot with forced political correctness all around. Every big bad you kill or friend that dies goes completely forgotten until the flashback points where you find iut more about the bad guys you've killed, but by the point you get there it's already too late. Its been too long since you killed them, you've completely forgotten about them by then. Could have been much better, but isn't.
846) Dont even bother buying this game I've finished it just to see the ending and it is truly just a slap to the face for someone who loves the first game .All the choices the character made are just pointless Garbage that the game want to threw at you and i wont even gonna mention the politics. Overall trash
847) Pure **** Done Playing The Last of Us 2.,Pretty much disappointed, the only good thing about this game is the insanely good Graphics and the gameplay is quite fun.,The rest??,Well, pretty much disappointing.,Especially the story.
848) Just disappointing, the whole story was pointless and all for nothing, Ellie had zero character progression and Joel died way to early.,The graphics are good, the atmosphere is good,Congratulations on ruining a great franchise
849) A game about Hate and Empathy written and can only be enjoyed of by people who don't actually understand Hate and Empathy actually work.
850) The most disappointing game of the year. The story-writers are arrogant and technically inferior, causing the main characters in the story to behave irrationally and illogically.
851) I am disappointed with the last of us 2, an evolution of minor gameplay, we are messing up the story to integrate politics in the games, and we are told if we don't like it's that we are homophobic.,the last of us 1 will remain a masterpiece but on the 2nd my disgust of the license, I never saw it again
852) Sorry but this game is a big no from me, I thought it would be good after waiting 7 years, but after that cheesy death of Joel I wanted to quit the game, I still gave it a chance tho, and then it went down hill, then the Abby plays made me sick, then after the ending I couldn’t I just had to go and refund the game, like sorry, but ND you won’t see any money from me for this game, I will continue to support your first TLOU game and continue to support your other games, but not TLOU 2.....I hope that at least that Crash Bandicoot 4 will be good....,EDIT: These positive review bombs omg I can’t tlou fanboys can’t see a good story
853) Story was literal garbage and the developers made sure to piss off all the fans. DO NOT BUY.
854) The storyline really sucks. The writer is trying too hard to “educate” people. If you’re a hardcore fan of the previous one, please do not buy this one!! It just doesn’t worth it! Don’t waste your time to play it!! If you already have one copy, please return it or sell it.
855) The story ruined everything.,for me [THE LAST OF US PART II] Never released.
856) An absolute spit in the face for last of us fans. If you enjoyed the first game DO NOT BUY OR PLAY THIS GAME. Nothing but a waste of story.
857) Around 7 years ago I was battling depression and suicidal thoughts and was so lucky to come across one of PewDiePie's videos of TLOU1 as I was browsing YouTube while eating Tandoori Chicken Masala. As I was watching the gameplay I was amazed at how much emotion I was feeling through my apathy and anhedonic mental state. What is this withcraft I thought to myself and went straight to PS-store and bought the game.,,Finally, I could feel something after months and months of anxiety, helplessness and lethargy. Watching Joel's daughter die and feeling myself get more and more attached to Joel and Ellie was something I hadn't felt in years. The game's amazing graphics, Gustavo Santaolalla's bittersweet music and the incredible plot gave me hope. It gave me hope for life, something which my entire existence had been lacking for so long. It gave me back hope to keep on fighting and resist the void that was in my heart. The Last of Us reminded me that there still exists beauty in the world and that there are human relationships in this world that are worth looking for and fighting for. Just like Joel and Ellie find something that they considered worth fighting for.,,As I was finishing the first game 7 years ago I started crying. I was sad and felt the helplessness and apathy for life slowly sneak its way back into my mind. I knew that the comfort and camaraderie that Joel and Ellie gave me had reached its end, but I knew I had to let them go. They had taught me to appreciate life and not be sad. Life's not too bad kiddo, like Joel would say. However, in my heart I was still hoping and begging that Naughty Dog would one day release a part 2 so I could join Ellie and Joel on another adventure and this time in a next-gen console with even better graphics and an even better story-line.,,Two days ago I bought Part2, and I couldn't stop playing it. Frantically moving around as Ellie and Abbie hoping to finally go on adveture with Joel and Ellie once more. Seeing glimses of Joel and Tommy brought warmth and hope back into my heart. Finally, my two best friend would be together, but the tone was off from the start, so I was unsure what to think. Ellie was acting funny and Joel was distant in a strange way, like he had lost his tough brutal mentality.,,I finished the game earlier today, and I am left speechless. I have no words. As the credits rolled in, I reluctantly pressed the button to the PS4 disk and shakingly removed the disk out of the console. Carrying the disk to the kitchen I placed my hand onto the stove. I turned on the stofe started burning my hand. I was uttering "This is what happens when you have hope, this is what happens". With second-degree burns I place the disk back into its cover and head off to the living room. I sit on the sofa and contemplate. What now? Is this it? Was this the game that I was hoping and waiting for 7 years? Was this the game that saved me from suicide 7 years ago? Were these the characters that helped me realize that life isn't too bad after all?,,I went back to my room and picked up the disk with its cover once again. Like Joel picking up Ellie from the operating table in game 1, I picked up my newly bought game and carried it over to my game collection. As I was walking down to the basement I whisphered in its ear. "listen kiddo, everything is gonna be alright, dont worry, I gotcha". Carrying my child down to the basement made me realize how much I loved my kid. My bond with this game was too grand to let it go, but I knew unlike Joel in the first game that I had to let go, but I just couldnt. As I was placing the disk besides The last of us 1 and being reminded how much emotion that game made me feel. I felt ashamed and sad for placing TLOU2 besides it. I decided that I couldn't. I simply couldn't let it be in the same room as this game. I took TLOU2 out of the shelf and ran back up to the kitchen. I turned the stove back on, but this time, unlike in the first game of The Last of Us. I let the doctor do his thing. I watched as the letters on the disk started to melt and drip slowly onto the stove leaving behind a tar-like residue.,,I watched the fumes from the burning plastic take the shape of Neil Druckmann's name and as all this was happening, my girlfriend walked in. She asked me "what are you doing?". I told her, "what I should've done the first time". Together, we were standing around the stove, watching our adopted child disappear and be sacrificed for the greater good. Thank you Naughty Dog for making me realize that some things are not meant for this world. Some things are meant to be forgotten. Some things are simply meant to be forgotten. Some things don't deserve to have a place in my heart. This game is one of those things. I hope you got your social and political agenda across, because you ruined the only game that helped me see the beauty of life. Thank you. Thank you so much. I hope you are happy for my 60 dollars now in your bank. Thank you.
858) Worst sequel I’ve ever seen, disregards everything in last of us 1. Just overall a horrible written story with Major flaws.
859) The Last of Us 2, has nothing new to present to the game industry! In my perspective, they just ruined the game and even story of the game is biased and trying to attract audience in a different way than an artistic way. The Last of Us 2 will buried under dust of game history forever very soon.
860) I don't even know where to start with this review. It's disaapointing on so many levels. I've put about 27 hours into it and feel like I played 50. The writing and these new characters are terrible. Is this the same writer from last of us1? I don't know what happened and I can recommend.
861) Really, I'm upset with this release. Sorry Naughty Dog, you really do a bad game. Worst history ever, disconnected with the first game and trying to catch "real life and politician discussions" to games... I want to spend my money and play a game to have fun. It's a shame. First, say that we all will love the game, now, the same people said: "it's not a game to everyone". Right, I really don't care if the company wants to do this kind of game, but I felt bamboozled with trailers creating hype and connection with the first beloved game to just deliver this crap.,,Unfortunately, I need to agree with another review here that said that "buy pre-order" from Sony could be a real problem. Spend money on a AAA game that I don't want to play. We received "a lie", probably they don't say anything before to avoid the game to "flop" as movies with that kind of "narrative". Nonetheless, if that is the way that Sony wants to follow from now, I will think twice before buy the new PS5 console.,,I don't give 0 because the game is really, technically, beautiful. But, you need to check it for yourself... but don't buy the digital version you will not be able to sell it. I think that you need to check for yourself (don't believe in me), but come back here to tell to everyone what you discovered.,,Just to finish, I never saw a number of user scores on Metacritic so high on years and a lot of AAA games... "something is wrong", are really gamers voting or people trying to defend their causes?
862) Are professional game reviewers not to be trusted anymore?,Sony's long awaited sequel does not live up to expectations; but it is worst than that. the gaming community, the large TLOUS 1 fan base have been betrayed by both the game developers (the 30% percent who remained at ND) and the so called professional gaming journalists.,The Last of us part 2 character development and story telling fails in many ways to elevate the game to were it should be, not even the beautiful animations and the upgraded game play could save the wreck ship from sinking in the bottom of the real gamers garbage bin.
863) Terrible. Worst story i have ever seen in a game... Graphically much bad than gears  4 or quantum break.,Graphics 6/10,Story 3/10,Characters 3/10,Gameplay 7/10
864) A terrible creature by Naughty Dog.,The story is unreasonable, illogical, unconvincing and unsympathetic,Users were insulted by Naughty Dog and Neil.
865) The dev team didn't understand the reason people wait for this game. I bet they still don't understand why people hate it.
866) This score is more because of the bloated critic score and based on the story, characters and their poor development with a lot of their portrayal and how much I dislike the execution of the whole story.,,If i were to weigh the story with the rest of the game, I'd give it a 7/10, but that's because a lot of my enjoyment is from the story of games.  I've played most of the game and seen the ending as well and a lot of the remaining parts since I watched someone during the last few  hours of the game as I played up to that point, it largely discouraged me from still playing it right now.,,The story and the characters were the worst of it for me. It really ruined my enjoyment of the game with the involvement of characters and how they want us to feel for some of them but they are just so largely unlikable.  Ellie is OK but I don't like her nearly as much as before and I loved the flashbacks with her and joel but they made her not as enjoyable. Also the fact that she didn't kill Abby at the end really bugs me.,,The fact that they killed Jesse the way they did, one of the only characters I actually liked, made the game slog even more as well as Dina leaving but I didn't mind her as a character, I personally expected her to die since this was meant to be a tragic story, same with Abby, and have Abby kill dina. I really didn't care for Abby and their situation with any of them and I was glad to see Manny killed right with her. Ellie made sure to ruthlessly murder all the guys but didn't kill the final two  girls for such a poor reason.,,The banter between ellie and dina got sort've old as did the flirting, them communicating  is also often off where it's almost like ellie doesn't know how to feel comfortable or really talk anymore but she was always so enjoyable in the flashbacks, especially the museum. I enjoyed that. The way they are often judging and thinking they are so much smarter than everyone as well, often thinking their version of justice even when they know next to nothing was rather annoying and their view point.,,I wish they would've involved jesse a bit more, he was sort've killed off  fast but he had such limited involvement and I liked him. Probably one of my favorites which isn't saying much but they killed him off with little actual interaction over all compared to most characters with dina and tommy. Especially given the fact that he was the first new character introduced in the game. I rather enjoyed tommy's involvement and wish we got more time with him and his view during the game. however, he was really dumb with saying his name to a bunch of strangers. They made it well known last game to not really address yourself as well as their history. He nearly instantly states his name and joels after things calmed down rather than being on defense. Especially with their history besides only the last 4 years. Also, abby showed no hesitation to start killing joel after he just saved her life? Terrible writing and build up.
867) Besides the awful plot, the worts part is that it was boring. The additions to the gameplay fell dull and unispired and the ending of the game makes no sense whatsoever.
868) It's this simple.  The positives: The graphics are fantastic, the game is longer (which can be a negative at times), the level design bigger/better than the original & the gameplay is slightly improved from the original, but nothing drastic.  The jump button is a welcome addition, but it's barely useful for anything at all.,,The negatives:  The story is abysmal & depressing.  I honestly don't know if I ever played a more depressing game with characters I could care less about.  Besides the stuff with Joel, Ellie becomes almost completely unlikable, by the end of the game, I didn't care about any of the characters at all.  I just wanted it to be over.  On top of this, The decisions & conclusions the characters make are completely irrational and illogical.  It's a complete disservice to Joel, Ellie and the original story.  The gameplay while slightly improved feels dated and gets boring & really drags through the second half.,,It's definitely not worth 60 bucks, I wish I would've waited for a used copy down the road.  Selling this one on Ebay!
869) This is not how the story should go. You can't just kill off any beloved characters in such an undignified and stupid way and expect us to play as the villain.
870) Hey ND...,Give my money back...,You kill Joel... are you imbecil?,This game is ridiculous.
871) I never felt so stupid trusting my money with a company that doesn't give a **** about the audience and a guy like Neil who uses feminism and the lgbtq community, as well as, the memory of the original masterpiece as leverage in getting the pay out he wants. BASTARD lied to us and I wouldn't want anyone wasting their time or funds on this terrible addition to 2020.
872) This game is horrible, you have to play as abby who is very unlilkeable for half of the game and the story is ****
873) Good Graphics bad story it's all about revenge...  so this game what I thought it will be good but it ain't
874) This game sucks. The story its a joke........,The end of the game ia the worst
875) I'm mad that I had to wait 4 years just to end up disappointed with the sequel and I feel really bad for the people that had to wait 7 years. This sequel made my year even worse than it already is.
876) I couldn't believe the story was going to be this bad, even though the spoilers was already telling much. I felt the new character did not do much good for the plot and poked out like a sore thumb. The new direction this game took was, to put it mildly, not my cup of tea, and after all I went through, the ending killed my love for the franchise. It doesn't mater the graphics look good, it doesn't mater the gameplay is engaging, if the story is this bad how can I enjoy this single player story driven game? I might as well go for a game without a plot, and I bet it would be better than this.
877) i'm pretty sure that you can't make story worse than that, if you are a fan of the first game this one will spit in your face and then play golf with your head
878) Overall a trash game where the main character is killed at the start, just don’t buy it
879) If you like paying 60$ for the same game with a worse story, than you will love this game. They kill off Joel for no reason at all, call you a toxic man baby if you dare to disagree and actively try to trick people into buying this game even though they know you won't like it.
880) Horrible writing. It’s not about the killing of Joe, it’s not about lesbians etc. But it’s about all the characters lost their originality but serve as a purpose for Neil Druckmann to tell his own values.
881) Story is so bad it is so laughable. Gameplay is the same thing so not much going for it.
882) Why did you add a noise filter to hide the defaults or the doanwgrade of the games?,Total disappointment the gameplay of the horse is to be reviewed because it slides on the side the gaming experience is marred by details and the 30FPS the impression that the character when you rotate big blur effects and the noise filter that the thing even worse.
883) It was horrible. Game is for FUN, not Politics or Personal thought. No one want to be educated the Politics or Personal thought by playing a Game.
884) This game is pure trash. Imagine if Tony Stark held the Infinity Stones in his hand and decided to not snap and Thanos was like "k, bye".
885) It breaks my heart to write this, Because I waited so much for this game, but.. In a nutshell... No, it's not a masterpiece. It isn't even good.
886) Totally garbage, stupid scriptwriter.,How can a game force us to suddenly forgive a personal enemy who killed our father with no mercy right before us, after we killed a lot of her followers for revenge? It's ridiculous.
887) There is no respect for fans at all. ND's arrogance hits the sky. He is mocking his fans. I want him to come to his senses..
888) Great graphics, gameplay etc. but the structure of the broken game play (half Ellie half Abby), Abby, terrible story, executed awfully, makes 0 zero sense why you would create such a masterpiece in part 1 just to undo everything here, really what WERE YOU THINKING????
889) The only possible explanation for ppl rating this game so highly is that they didnt care at all for tlou, or are forcing themselves to enjoy this game, because if they don't, they're gonna be 'homophobic'. Everything the first game built was completely thrown into the garbage can, it's that simple.
890) Pros,- The graphics are amazing 10/10,- Combat is also really good because you see how they tweaked the fighting from the first game to part II and how they added many more things,which i think create a good gaming experience. (at least for me it did)  9/10,- Amazing cast 10/10,,Cons,- Joel being killed off for shock value.,I personally think that they should've killed him in part 3 or maybe not at all,because i just think that  the whole idea of killing off the main protector is so overused nowadays in these post-apocalyptic games.,- This game is full of forgettable characters,- Character development that was developed in the first game was thrown out the trash in part II,- They forced us to sympathize with abby,- So many plot holes, like way to much,- There were one to many parts that were unwanted and unnecessary,- The ones who wrote the game apparently forgot what made the first game a masterpiece.The Last of Us isn't The Last of Us without Joel or Ellie.,- Waited 7 years to just see one of the most beloved characters of the gaming industry tortured to death and then we see our little girl Ellie all alone and sad.Which is her worst fear by the way,,Ok,so i am gonna to stop yapping,sorry for the long read,in Conclusion I think that there are good things about this game and a lot of bad things about this game as you can see.It killed me to see such a good story and characters go to waste.I am so disappointed in part II.The way they handled the original characters that we grew to know and love was just messed up,but i also wanna send a big thanks to everyone who put a lot of effort in this game.I think for me The Last of Us ended with the masterpiece that was the first one.
891) well... where do i start.,obviously killing joel and bringing in a freak character + that totally unneeded shoving obscure lgbt stuff down my throat makes me give a zero score. I just wanted to play a game! Get it?,,graphics and the gameplay is mostly okay though and if you can ignore that freaky sexual stuff, then go ahead.,,all the puzzles are WAY TOO EASY to solve, everything is served to you on the gold platter. mostly looking around in the same or adjacent room is more than enough to find the final clue.,,very annoying is the way ai works, all the enemies stroll on the same route, they are too predictable and the co-character always gets in my way when exploring rooms/areas or when hiding behind obstacles to attack enemies. the other character get on my way ALL THE FREAKING TIME.,,Also, too many cutscenes. TOO MANY!!! at the end of the first chapter, there are 4 cutscenes in a row, that's annoying, to say the least.,,i played it through and was hoping i can then select individual chapters and collect all the missing stuff, but as it turns out... at first all chapters were available and i started re-playing the first chapter, it then fookin thought it was a good idea to again hide all the rest of the chapters and now i have to play the whole game, all chapters in the original order again, to get 100% of the game. WTF, how did that happen? I did not do anything strange, After completing the game, I chose Story > Chapters > saw that all the chapters were playable > opened the first chapter > played it a bit > went back to main menu to choose another chapter and ... WHAM... only the first chapter Is playable.
892) Terribly directed. Terrible writing. Sure the environment is nice, but whats the point if you feel uncomfortable the entire time?
893) Really didn’t like the order of things in the story, really ruined my experience.
894) Game was overhyped to the extreme. Story isn't anything special, dragged on for long periods of time, gameplay wasn't anything special, and the so-called twists in the plot where both predictable and typical. Not worth the $60 and any critic who gives it 10/10 is clearly doing it for Political reasons and not the actual game itself.
895) Shame, this could be a very good game.,But the second part is so God damn boring.,Technical side is rater good. but the story...
896) Story is all over the place and a huge mess.,Gameplay is outdated and hasn't changed at all from the first game.,Pacing is terrible and the game is overly long for no reason.,Almost no environmental puzzles.,None of the new characters introduced are likeable.
897) OK Don't write many reviews but had to for this one. I played TLOU about 5 times or more. Again just before this game in anticipation. Sadly, I've only played this game once and will be trading it in and forgetting about it. What a wasted opportunity to build on top of a fantastic game (TLOU).  The character arc and development is extremely poor. There is no explanation for many of the plots. In TLOU you were a passenger n the journey the Joel and Ellie took. In this game,,,I can see why fans are angry and saying Naughty Dog deceived them. All promos and trailers essentially showed Ellie on a revenge spree. Yes Joel was there but it could be guess that either he or Dina were gong to die to make Ellie so angry. But the main part of the game, you're not playing as Ellie.,,Even worse, youre jumping back and forth between characters and time periods that it gets downright confusing.,,I don't mind Joel got killed. That actually made me want to play the game as it gave Ellie her motivation for what she was about to do. Bring it on!! But from there, the story falls flat.,,Then we start playing Abby for what seems the majority of the game. WTF? I hated this segment and was forced to trudge through it only to see the ending. The sections where you're fighting Ellie as Abby were just plain dumb. Many a time, I stood out in the open so Elli could kill me but that ended the game.,,I got excited when we became Ellie again, albeit it for a short moment.,,Sadly this is a forgettable game and wont be played again by me. This isn't the Last of Us part 2, may a well have called it "The Abby Chronicles".,,Such a shame Naughty Dog handed this out after 7 years of development. Would have been better to leave TLOU as a one off and done a different IP.,,I was thinking Id play this game a few times to get my fill and savour the moment. All I can say is thank God Gh0st of Tsushima and Cyberpunk are coming out soon!
898) They ruined the great game. Everything that we knew about the first part is crossed out here. Great graphics do not save. The musical accompaniment is weak.
899) This game has finally lost all the trust and respect I had for professional game reviewers. I read about the leaks but still came in with an open mind because TLOU part 1 had one of gaming's best storytelling and I felt like that they would still retain that quality. Then all the reviews came in and my expectations shot through the roof only to eventually crash and ignite when I experienced the story. BIGGEST DISAPPOINTMENT EVER. Then I heard about all the DMCA takedowns and Sony Reps and those rumors made this game very uncomfortable to play. I think Naughty Dog may have officially ruined their reputation with this entry.
900) This is one of the most WOKE trash game with the best graphics that I've ever seen. Great design, moderate control with an utterly lazy storyline. Neil has lost his creativity but intended on selling a sequel, it totally makes sense for him to prefer an SJW agenda based story because he was certain that the game could stir up a lot of controversy which in turn provides free marketing. I am not homophobic or transphobic, I loved Stranger Things not just because of the story but their way of expressing true love without vulgarity. Sex scenes do not convey strong love or intimacy but good storyline does. This game sets a great example on how you could potentially ruin a great franchise with a storyline that kills off major characters for absolutely stupid reasons. Joel and Ellie never deserved this and they were not given justice.
901) An unfortunate failure at everything it sets out to accomplish. Avoid, especially if the previous game meant anything to you.
902) Absolute trash, this game is the worst game i have ever played. Neil Druckmann is completely delusional. DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!!! We all deserve better including LGBTQ+ . I think it’s strange of sony/naughty dog, to be pro trans but make a trans character that everyone will hate. seems like maybe they are trans phobic themselves but hide it under virtual signalling
903) Why I didn't just burn these 60$.......the story was just terrible. I don't care about the "agenda" or the LGBTQ characters. The story and characters are contrived. Especially Joel and Ellie did everything to fit into the games story, they didn't behave like they would in TLOU 1. I could have written more but I really am exhausted mentally after playing this game for 14 hours straight.
904) they game is the worst game i playd in 20 years im realy sad they has ruined the game and the characters I hope Neil Druckmann gets fired or else it is the last game I buy from Naughty Dog,,the story is crap and now we know we can not trust the media game critics are full of,it was soo disgusting to play and look at the way they treat the characters,we dont need all this sjw **** in videogames  don't waist your hard earn money on this propaganda ****
905) I believe it is a triple A game on PS4, but with frustrating and disappointing plot and storytelling. As a game player, I'm looking for entertainment, not education. If this game could offer many options to have different endings, it would feel way better for players. No one likes to accept the forced decision. And the order of the plot could have better adjustment, which can improve player's sympathy. Please change the writers, Naughty Dog!
906) the worst disappointing game.,I've ruined all the stories I wanted to see by forcing a play I'm not curious about.
907) This is my personal point of view. I really liked the game and I find a bit unfair all the negative comments going on.,,I went through such an emotional roller coaster throughout the game and while I also had moments of 'anger' and frustration the first time they make you swap characters....as time goes by, it all made sense...starting to see the story develop from the 'enemy's' point of view was a progressive learning curve for Abby and would connect in such an emotional way with Ellie.,,This stops being about the infection and more about humanity through different perspectives. It was so nostalgic and emotional all the way you can connect with each character as you spend more time with them, exploring more views of the world we hadn't seen from Ellie's point of view. It was such an emotional wreck when you see a similar reflection of Ellie's story through Abby as she also goes through similar changes of heart and perspectives as she also connects with Lev. It is kind of a mirror story from Ellie and Joel in a way, and I've found the storytelling as a genius plan.,,The way Joel is portrayed was super emotional as well...it makes you right away feel Ellie's anger and as she goes on and on...as much as loving Ellie, you feel like you just want her to stop being in pain...and all the shocking moments in Seattle and her reason to go out again to California....is so powerful and painful (in a respectful way and greatly done).,,While also kind of hating to play as Abby at first, as time went by, the story makes you really connect with her and I've found it brilliant how the game gives you an expanded and also different experience that at the end, I ended up enjoying a lot. The different weapons, fighting style, challenges and also epic story and challenges to face as Abby, were great.,,I've never felt so conflicted internally when you connect again with Ellie....I just didn't want to fight against her and while you start to understand Abby, you want them to stop...it was so thrilling to play through that, knowing both's perspectives. Then being Ellie again and fighting against Abby out of rage and all the trouble you go through....was so emotional and I found a great resolution of Ellie finally 'letting go'.,,I have nothing but respect and thanks to Naughty Dog for making such a bold and daring new emotional experience as a whole. I'll always love Ellie and Joel, but this second part made me go beyond what I thought about empathy and perspective of different people. This was such a powerful experience.,,Beyond the great story everything is amazingly executed, the artistry, environments, animation, lighting, fx, cinematography, the connection between cinematics and playable action and of course, the beautiful and melancholic music. If I had a hat on, I'd take it off and say: Thank you.
908) Do you want people to have played the first game or not?,You advertised with Joel and Ellie.,Yet you want us to feel and love Abby?,I don't need to know why she did it. I know, from that moment, she's firefly(not THAT doctor's daughter though),,Playing as Abby first might make this less bad, but probably will raise other problems.,,The greatness of the first game, partly comes from the journey and experience, and you feel for the characters.,But I have to force myself to progress through this game.,I can't believe I said "it's finally over" after the end for a game I've been waited so long.,Bye bye playstation.,Xbox for me next gen.
909) Even though the graphics and the gameplay are impressive, playing a game where the initial motive of the story is unfulfilled makes the rest of gaming experience pointless. Playing as the killer did not help with the score as well as most of the players have developed deep attachment to Joel from the first game. If I did not play as abby in this game i would have given this game at least a 5.
910) Everyone giving this a positive 10/10 didn't play the game and is bashing people for giving it a 0/10 and not playing the game. People who played the game know that yes it's beautiful technologically and the acting is great, but being realistic the story is bad. The story changes an important character trait of Joel just so they could kill him off. We all expected him to die, but a death scene should feel earned, not happen because the writers couldn't think of a reasonable way to kill him in context. They didn't flesh out any of the new characters well and besides Abby, who is shown a lot but lacks proper humanization. Apparently, by telling me that a person has friends and a dog I should immediately feel bad for them, like did they not expect me to think she also is a typical human?? They treat the player like they don't understand much without explanation, and then at the end, they add info that you should have known the entire game (Ellie knew the entire time but we conveniently aren't told despite playing her) for an emotional blow. In the end, it feels like a good idea that was ruined by cop-outs and bad writing techniques. Not to mention the fact the game is specifically made to make you feel bad which as expert game designer Reggie says, "If it's not fun why bother" In the end, you play as Ellie who's okay with brutally murdering everyone who hasn't done anything wrong and decides to stop by the time she gets to the person who deserves her rage. The game just feels like they had a point but no idea how to get it across.
911) This is a disgusting game, and not just because SJW is just out of hand and interferes with the narrative. It has huge problems with the plot, the game is just a dummy, the only thing that saved it is the gameplay, but playing for the characters was disgusting and unpleasant. All that the first part achieved was destroyed.
912) I have no words to describe how disapointed i am with this game, from the plot to the ending...,The graphics are great, the gameplay too, the animations, you name it... but what happened with the story? How could you take such an horrible aproach to this sequel... and Neil Druckman takes all criticism as if it was just a temper tantrum from the fans, and calls us idiots for thinking this way, he ignores thousands of fans that he betrayed and just pretends that this game is a masterpiece just because he feels like he is a great writter.,This game is a punch to the face of every fan of this franchise who spent all these years waiting for a sequel that in the end should have never existed...
913) As an asian, I felt the racial discrimination to asian. Not only black lives and white lives matter, asians lives matter too!
914) Completa garbage. Utter trash , an insult to the first game.Waste of money .
915) This is an absolute abomination. They butchered the story and it is clear character assassination, Joel is nothing like he was in the first game, makes a very stupid and out of character mistake that real Joel would never do. They went for shock value... so many disgusting scenes. The graphics are downgraded compared what they originally showed and the gameplay is still mediocre, this product has nothing to offer
916) The story of the game is very frustrating... me make angry, I really force me to enjoy it, bur really I cant
917) A huge letdown, this game really did a number on me. I waited 7 years for this, avoided all the spoilers, got myself the special edition and couldn't wait to see what was in store. This game just takes the first one (a masterpiece imo) and burns it, kicks it, stomps on it and spits on it. Characters that were very well founded are so out of their traits its nothing but lazy writing from the higher ups. Plot doesn't make sense, **** just happens for the sake and convenience of it. This game is spiteful to anyone who remotely enjoyed the the previous entry, especially towards people like me who  were so in love with the first. I regret ever playing this.
918) Neil Druckmann you done **** it up. The story is really forced & jumble & too many flashbacks. Also, you don't even get to kill Abby.
919) One of the most disappointing sequels in video game history, if you enjoyed the original game for its characters and story then this game will not be for you, if you disliked the nonsense plot of Star Wars The Last Jedi or the lazy writing of game of thrones season 8 then once again, you will be disappointed playing a game that takes the story in narrative directions that should never have left the writers room, the game is FILLED with unlikable petty characters who are forced down your throat as the game tries make you sympathize with them while also spitting on the beloved characters of the original in the name of SUBVERSION. The game is simply just substanceless misery porn that employs cheap shock tactics to make the player feel sad and angry although it will probably just leave you disappointed and confused in the end because it is one of the most anti-climactic stories I have ever witnessed in any medium
920) the story of this game is completely garbage, the fact that this is supposed to be a story based game yet the story itself is the worst thing about it is why its just not worth it. The 2nd half where you play as Abby is trash as she's just an unlikeable character all around which doesn't make the game fun. Also wtf was that ending?
921) Save your 60$ and your mental health. Story and gameplay - trashfire on sunflower seeds husk factory. Animations also bad as f lol.
922) I was waiting for this game god knows how long. And they gave me this... ****,I have nothing against LGBT, but why kill off Joel? Yeah, he wasn't a good person, but can you at least show some respect?,And for what our beloved Joel was killed? For having a new bland character, that authors force you to play as for half of the game and force you to feel bad for her.,You know what?,I. DON'T. GIVE. A. FLIP.,Abby is a goddamn nobody, who killed Joel. The hell we supposed to feel bad for her?,Also, what was the point of adding LGBT if you never use it? Yeah, why explore the relationship between Ellie and Dina, when we can have the "dark and edgy" revenge plot?,You know, The Last Of Us is a franchise based on a story, not the gameplay. Without the story, this game costs nothing. Oh and the game is just boring.,I wanted to love this game. I really did. But I just can't.,You were the Chosen One Last Of Us II! You were supposed to save 2020, not ruin it even more!
923) This game was absolute trash with the story line, only thing enjoyable was the graphics, but because like many others I waited 7 years for a sequel, it gets a 0. Like many others, we had hopes of walking beside Joel for joyous moments in the apocalypse, no no. Instead, you get to see Joel die, play 12 HOURS as the villain, beat the **** out of Ellie, on top of that, this game really pushes the LGBTQ Agenda in your face constantly, as if the game itself is rotated around a Gay Apocalyptic World that plays out like Game of Thrones. This game is an actual **** bag in a present, don’t buy it. Don’t even watch it, just leave the first LoU as your main story. You’ll be so much happier with it. Thanks dumbmann, you officially wrote the worst game of 2020.
924) the gameplay is good so i gave it 1,,the story is awful,too many bugs,there is more cinematic than the gameplay
925) Naughty Dog used to be one of the best game developers in the industry. It really is a shame to see how far they've fallen under the leadership of Neil Druckmann. He has close ties with Anita Sarkisian (anti-gamer) and you can tell she played a major influence in this game.  When it comes to The Last of Us Part II, it's some of the worst story telling from all games prior.,,The only positive I could think of while playing The Last of Us II was how amazing the graphics are, but it's the epitome of proof graphics are not everything to make a good game.,,Reviewers are right to compare this with Game of Thrones season 8, because that is where it falls in line in terms of story and character development. Not only do the characters from the original TLOU do things that are totally out of character all to move the plot along, but what happens to them is disrespectful and infuriating. It is not joke to say the story is not only a slap in the face to the fans, but a hard hitting nuke to head with Druckmann pissing agenda on the ashes (Yes, it's that bad!).,,Aside from story, the gameplay is average at best, and mediocre at worst. While the original The Last of Us was ground breaking in terms of gameplay and story, it's a game that is now six years old! Part II does nothing groundbreaking from it's predecessor, and feels very last generation with very little to offer. It is a tedious exploration going from one area to the next, fighting hordes of enemies over and over only to have another cinematic with characters I care nothing about. After a while I just want to stop playing The Last of Us II altogether, and move onto something more enjoyable like God of War.,,I truly believe with Niel Druckmann at the helm it will be the end of Naughty Dog after playing The Last of Us II. I feel terrible for the employees that work under him, their blood, sweat, and tears for an oppressive manager like Niel will only bring morale down within the company. Hopefully ND will realize the mistake they made with Niel and beg for Amy Hennig to come back to take the reigns again. It is wishful thinking, but it's going to be sad from here on out knowing how my once favorite developer has fallen from grace solely for an agenda they want to force down upon others, and gamers are the ones who lose because of it.
926) This game is a  =  The Last Jedi simulator..,-,This game is a  =  Subvert Badly All Expectations simulator...,-,This game is a  =  Guitar Hero but Minus 2 Fingers simulator..,-,It is advised not to buy it!
927) This review contains heavy spoilers for the game, proceed with caution.,,So the game went like this:,- hmm you thought joel was a great character huh, well imma have him die a slow and painful death to start things off.,- oh and you thought the relationship between joel and ellie that the entirety of the first game was building is amazing and special, well guess what not anymore. its riddled with conflicts now.,- will they resolve them conflicts? wait till the end to see.,- oh so now you hate abby huh, well lemme try to change your mind with a 15 hour gameplay with abby.,- oh so you haven't changed your mind and still want her dead, well boo hoo hoo she ain't gonna die b**ch,- well at least did ellie and joel resolve their conflicts, before he died? well yeah, but actually no.,- oh, btw remember ellie's worst fear was ending up alone, well you know how it goes by now.
928) Nauhgty dog must kill Natan Drake next. Oh yeah he should be GAY!!! It is Disaster of 2020.,Druckman lier! Fake trailers for more money! Bravo Sony & Naughty Dog! Refund!
929) I really like first The last of Us game but i rellay hate The last of us 2 it s bad game. Graphics and music are very good but story is bad.,I wait 7 years to play TLOU2 with joel and ellie but i get new Ellie which i don t like and abby which i really don t like.,I regret to buy this game.
930) Story based game with a worst possible story writen, its not about hating lgbt or something like that its about lauzy writing, GOT all over again.... Gameplay  5 years old....
931) who wrote this fanfic? It's so bad, so bad... My disappointment is immeasurable
932) Worst game ever... Never play this game. Worst 20 hours in my life... Worst game ever...
933) Horrible game who betray spirit of ancestors for simple story like vengeance is bad!,The worse part there nothing good quality with exception of tech part of game and actors play, but even this cant save this product.
934) Angry Joe sums it up best for me. Destroyed the characters I loved clumsily and tried to shove the murderer down my throat as sympathetic?! Emotional manipulation at its worst. Enjoyable gameplay and scenery but that's not why I was here.
935) Horrible bait and switch marketing. Story lacks logic, making the gameplay feel hollow and pointless. Why would I keep on going in playing this, when the driving force of the game is its story, which its as weak as its ever been. For a sequel, you have to live up to expectations and surpass the originals. See the Metal Gear franchise.
936) Story absolutely horrible.. lack of logic. Stupid soap opera, and to play only for revenge with no better purpose or goal is a downer.
937) If you are a fan of The last of US. Almostly ruins everything! every characters!  Very disappoiting story
938) I am sorry but this is just pile of garbage!,There are so many wrongs in the story that I need a billions of letters to explain
939) This game destroyed everything I loved about the first game. It is filled with characters that the game force you to immediately adore. It is a dark game with no light in it. It is just another empty revenge story. It doesn't bring anything new to the table. Kinda like new Star Wars trilogy . Very dissapointing after 7 years of wait.
940) The whole game the feeling that every part is not completed. Maybe that's why it calls part, because it is only part of whole game. Gameplay almost like in first part, but went more than 7 years. Many things changed in games and give allmost the same gameplay this is funny. Fully broke plot, all shock moments don't work. All new characters are indifferent. And game too long it would be better if it was shorter by 10 hours. Don't see any right thing to buy it. Think twice to do this.
941) Game is good except the story. Ruined my favorite character, and director is trash
942) They don't allow you to make your decisions, they force you to think the way they want, and I mean Naughty dog.
943) This hurts to right but truly this game was just horrid. The writing was messy and it just went for shock value. Not worthy to be apart of this franchise, should be re-written to follow Joel and Ellie in search for a cure.
944) **** this game so bad, how can you do this with my favorite game? wtf happen with the story?
945) Just disappointing. That's all I gotta say after ssitting through 25 hours of gameplay.
946) They wasted it just for LGBTs this awful game destroyed my hope and happines,Shame on game makers
947) It sucks how everything turned out in this one. It sucks how bias towards Joel or Ellie will make u hate this game. The gameplay, the graphics are absolutely amazing but I cannot bare how the storyline of the game was handled. It could have been so much better. A wait for this game for so long just to find out what happened absolutely left me in shatters. They could've just left it at where it ended and it would still be something I'd  remember. But they went ahead and made me hate their production. Whoever called this a piece of art was just being subtle to not hurt some mentally **** up people who came out with that kind of a narrative. And they even went ahead and bought these critic sites who are calling it a must play game. If u loved the Last of us, I'd really not recommend u even reading about what happened in this part. Also I hope Naughty Dog burns down in flames.
948) The game itself is beautifull, it looks great and gameplay is quite entertaining.,However the story is so lazy and quite awfull.,,Making you play as someone you have absolutely no chemistry with just to force the quite awfull ending on you is really tragic.,And that is what really kills it for me, I cannot reccomend this game to anyone.
949) False advertisement, a bold yet ultimately bad approach to storytelling and a terribly generic and boring message and story
950) Horrible Game. Abusing the fan base and players. Do not buy. You will be disappointed. The story makes no sense anymore and it is just shocking how less the creators think of their customers.
951) I would like to call the game a masterpiece, but the language does not dare to do it. The gameplay is not bad, I would even say "perfect", but the plot is just **** Since they wanted to give us the opportunity to take revenge, we would finish the job !!!
952) Game was ass. Terrible story. Ruined all the characters from previous game. Hated it. Don’t buy it. Don’t waste your money
953) This game is like getting your head smashed by a golf club and spit on by a random person.
954) Neil Druckmann, you ruined this game.,,The only + in this game is that i get to see Ellie and Joel again.,,Everything else is bad beacuse the story is bad.
955) The first game was a work of art, second game is just a waste of time. I will never trust critic reviews again.
956) Wow... The story and pacing is so bad. I want go back in time and play The Last of Us (2013) for the first time again and then commit sudoku.
957) A story experience as bland as flour. Looks fantastic, plays decently well if not a little clunky.
958) the  game review  is,the good  :,good combet  ai  of  the  enemies,good open  world  for  exploration,good  graphic,the  bed:,the horrible  story  the  story  is  ****,the  characters  development  is  ****  you  can`t connect  to them,half  off the  game  you  play the disliked  character Abby,when you  kill an enemy  or  dog  the  game  want  you  to be ashamed,the  game  is  fall of  SJW  and  cringe,and  the  worst  of the  game,they  kill  a favorite  character  in  a way  out  of  character and  lie  about  it,the  game  is  fall  of  agenda,the  game  isn't  replayable,the  pacing want  to make  you  finish  it  fast  and  not  paly it  again,the  game destroys the  first  lore  and  history,the  ending  is  not really its ****  to  not  kill the  ****  let  her  go  for  forgiveness  after  you murder  people  who  protect her,overhaul  who is it  for Niel  its  not  for  the  fans  you show it  when  you  destroy  people  who talk about  the game leak  **** ND  the  game is  ****  you  butchered  a good franchise it is 3 or 2,5,worst it's worth  0  but I give  it  a there  because  the  game  is average  at  best  the  story  is  ****  don't  buy  and  if  you  want  to play  buy  a 2 hand  is  a lot better to let  it    to not  let  your money,also  metacritc starting  to  delate  reviews
959) The story of this game feels like a bad netflix movie . I really wonder how corrupt critics have 95 of 100.
960) If this was a game on its own then it wouldn't even be that bad, but being a sequel to a such well-written and heartbreaking masterpiece this second chapter is nothing but pure garbage. From the characters that we have learned to love in the first to games that have become irrecognizable, to the new characters, so easily forgettable and unrelatable that bring nothing new to the saga, representing one of the many problems of a bad-directed and even worse written game. The plot just drags on and on without a reason, moving from scenes that would fit only in a spanish soap opera to gorey scenes written only to remember that you are playing TLoU2, thing that you would otherwise forget. Furthermore, the terrible pacing will drive you to madness and at the end you will feel as you have just been wasting 30 hours of your existence, due to the most horrible conclusion I have ever seen in a videogame. Last but not least, compared to the previous chapter the game shifts its attention from interesting themes and possible character growths, just to put useless love stories and teen drama elements that you usually only find in those **** CW shows
961) The game gives everything to abby and basically spits in the face of ellie worst game to ever be created trash pure garbage
962) To the idiots who still don't understand....,We know the gameplay will be good,We know the graphics will look amazing,We know the voice acting will be great,But when you completely butcher the storyline, which is the focal point of this series, what you do well DOESNT MATTER
963) Bad story writing that really takes apart the whole joel experience from the first game and kills off main characters like that i understand abbys or whoever that girl was but killing off a main character that had the experience To kill a faction and hundreds of infected and killed a person with a car just cause he doesnt take risks to blatantly say his name on some strangers is highly un acceptable people giving a 10 would disagree because they havnt played the first game soo stupid
964) No respect for last game.worst story i've ever seen... do not waste your money to buy this game.
965) It's a shame that the whole thing went that way, while the gameplay and graphics are solid here, they don't do anything better that it's previous self or of serious remark. I can't give this a good score though. That's because it's a story driven game, you can't just go along and give marks to graphics while there are even better out there. The characters just like most reviews state, are poor written and not memorable at all, a huge hit to a game that's supposed to make the story have a impact to the player. I fell in love with the art style and enviroment the first game created with the whole apocalyptic world and the story was constantly remind you of it, cause the main purpose was to survine it and find a cure for it. Here everything is ditched and we are focusing on characters fighting eachother for reasons too mediocre for the setting of the world. In my honest opinion they chose the  wrong storytelling for the sequel of a masterpiece.
966) This game is a disappointment, disaster, and a great pile of **** in the writing department. The graphics and the music are great, but it’s hard to overlook the writing and the horrible characters. Save your money for Ghost of Tsushima.
967) Can't accept this script.,Insulting this series.,Waste everyone's waiting time.
968) Why repeat what has already been said thousands of times.. just don't buy this
969) Peace of **** **** Drakman, CJW and Naugthy Dog for me this story ends in first part
970) Too rude, doctrinaire, and coercive.,All the choices of the characters are confusing and hard to understand.,The developer and director were irresponsible, and contrary to their intentions, they were not immersed at all.,,The PC was too outspoken.,Even I felt repulsed because I had no discriminatory thoughts about PCs.,It was an attitude to teach with a sense of moral superiority, but it was not that high, and it felt like I was forced to continue eating uncomfortable food.,,Basically, the last of us Part 2's sense of subject or story is not very unconventional. Rather, it's more like a cliche.,What was the reason for showing an obvious story through unpleasant plots and directing?,I have no idea what the benefits of him are.,Regardless of the unpleasantness of the PC or story, the composition itself seems to have dropped.,,I think Star Wars : the last Jedi and the sequel to the masterpiece can be a challenging choice. It would have been a more destructive story if it had done well because the return was a bold but big approach.,But it failed miserably in an unconvincing way.,Shouldn't we focus first on showing the game to the public as a culture and art and enjoying it? It is too irresponsible to draw only the pictures they want.,,Is there anyone who made this fun?,Especially for people like me who have deep memories of their previous work...,To be honest, it was more like a last of Earth sequel.,It was a series of inconveniences while playing games.,,I advise you not to do it for your mental health.
971) The storing telling perspective of this game is very lousy. Joel even dies in around 1 hour of play. Many parts of its campaign are throw to the table as a puzzle, in which the player is forced to constantly endure flashbacks... Its story is simply disgusting with regard to narrative quality as a whole!
972) The game looks nice and that's the only positive thing about it, the story makes The Last Jedi look like the greatest film of all time, and by that I mean the writing in this game is an abomination against mankind.
973) Good the picture of the game, beautiful scenery , and nice UI , but the WORST story ever!!!!!!
974) The story was completely corrupted, the characters are made primitively. The game is filled with ideological propaganda, which makes it political **** I will try to get my money back. I highly do not recommend anyone to buy this.
975) I enjoyed the first half of the game, until I had to play as Abby. For the entire 10 hours of her story I hated her, no amount of pandering or attempts to make me empathize with her worked. My only feeling for her as a character was seething hatred as I realized she was going to be half of the **** game. The only way I could make the second half fun for myself was by killing Abby in as many forms as I could. Especially when you are FORCED to beat the **** out Ellie. The game looks and plays great, but the soul that existed in the first one clearly died. There was no character development that could match up to the last game. Since they added too many new characters and killed them off before they could earn my respect. I regret my decision to buy this, and I immediately deleted it after finishing.
976) The Last of Us part II isn't what I wanted. I wanted The Last of Us part II to continue the journey that Joel started, that bond of human nature we all have. It took a turn in a different direction but let me tell you one thing. This game should have another title, this is not The Last of Us, this is Ellies Story. I know people will not understand my point of view, but imagine Toy Story without Woody!
977) Boring and repetative gameplay for 30+ hours that was supposed to be justified by the story that is boring and repetative as well. It is full of filler episodes and cliches that are 50 years old classic of post-apocalypse genre but were advertised as groundbreaking and new.
978) Please don't waste your time and money in this game. This game shouldn't have existed
979) What a terrible story. It's like they had 100 points and spent them on the graphics and the ganeplay and 0 points for the story. Pity.
980) Made an account just to express how frustrated after playing this game. The system doesn't evolve a lot; the storytelling is way worse than the previous game; the characters are unlikable, especially the change of Allie's attitude toward Abby (although I already guessed what she would do, based on the pattern of how the story is written). Generally a disappointment. I don't know why it received such praises from most of the media, but I do know that IGN Japan, Game Revolution and GAMINGbible are some of the most honest ones among them all.,,Also, Sony/naughty dog is freaking racist and double standard. The writer has tons of ways to express that Ellie is not into Jesse, but they chose that race joke. They added so many political correctness thingies, pretending that they care but they do NOT. Deep down they are still a bunch of racists and always trying to pick on a race with the lowest risk. That joke wouldn’t be there if Jesse was black or gay.
981) Pros:,- gameplay (first hours),- graphics (its ok),- atmosphere (again, first hours),- sound (its good),- music,,Cons:,- story (absolute unlogical),- character development,- character design (no worries for heroes),- plot holes (no comments, if u want check this, just try some YouTube passing)
982) If you want to play this game, Please, Don't expect a story.. Only Focusing on game play with graphic. ah! if you don't have enough money to get this game, you can just watch game playing video. that's enough
983) This game was such a disappointment. All the high end polish you'd expect from a ND game. But when the story is such and integral part of this game, when it falls flat as hard as it does the entire game suffers. I played through twice. I just didn't care. Sold the game used today.
984) The worst story ever. Naughty dog should be ashamed of themselves.,,My disappointment is immeasurable, I waited 5 years to play this, and they gave me a horrible trash.,,I just want to forget about this game.
985) I don't care about the SJW sh**, the graphics, game mechanics are all amazing but this story completely sucks in this one. Unlike TLOS this game is more about revenge and hate but the ending does no justice for that. The characters are all unlikeable and the narration falls flat on this one.
986) cheater! cheater! cheater!,,Awful game ever. Don't waste your money to buy this ****
987) Graphics 5/5,Sound 3/5,Play 4/5,Story -all /5,,I won't say anything.,The story blocks all the other advantages,The game that the creators themselves wanted to become like a movie,But there is no probability,There is no character,There will be no users trying to play this.,No matter what the issue, there will never be a good game.
988) I made an account just to say this game is **** stupid. Kill off the most beloved character less than 2 hours into the game and the rest of the story is "revenge bad". If you really want to play this game, buy it 2nd hand/used. Don't dump 60 dollars on this dumpster fire.,,Gameplay is basically the same as the first game from 7 years ago except NOW YOU CAN PRONE!! WOW!!! INNOVATIVE!!
989) What makes the last of us part one got that 10/10 legendary status? the gameplay? the graphic? No its the story, literally. The bond between Elie and Joel is what makes TLOU franchise unique.  When that story fails to deliver  in TLOU part 2, then nothing makes this game standout to other games alike, such as uncharted franchise. The story is completely a mess, and trashes the first game built on so much for players to care about. The story is that bad once you enter the first 3 hours segment you may not want to play anymore
990) The story is so incredibly bad. The new playable character that isn't advertised anywhere is kind of a psychopath.
991) 0 innovation, incredibly disrespecful towards the first game,  disgusting unnecesary content And terrible characters
992) This game is an absolute disaster, it destroys everything you love about first game without mercy,One if biggest dissapointments I ever experienced in video gaming
993) LoU pt one had problems with progress 'sticking' at bottlenecks that sort of made the linear gameplay feel like old "retry this challenge 100 times" games. I HOPED they would ease up on that with part II...in 2020 game AI should respond better to progress chokes.,I'm not even going to remark on other things making the game unappealing. Frankly i'm through being woke-scolded in every dimension of life. it has the opposite effect on a person, or didn't they know that?
994) My disappointment is beyond words. The poorly written story makes me want to burn it to ashes and bury it in the desert. I will never trust ND again.
995) This game is disrespectful to the first tlou. Terrible characters, plot, writing, just all around a bad game. I can't believe this is what we got after all this time in production. I'm so disappointed and I wish I had gone with my gut and not even played it.
996) Disgusting game which is not fun to play. Boring gameplay, especially the second part of it.
997) Everything that makes this a good game is there. But the pacing and the story falls short if its potential and it treats the fans like they are idiots. There is a boring and stupid back and forth between characters and the 2 story lines that never reaches a solid conclusion in the end. The LGBT representation is really good specially Lev (I'm not sure about Ellie and Dina). But this representation feels like they did it for the marketing and to get good reviews, awards and coverage (which I'm sure they didn't intended to do).,The graphics are really good and the acting is top notch. The music is beautiful the sound design is dynamic.,My honest score is 8 out of 10 but the story treated me (a real fan of the first game) like an idiot and I don't like it. That's why I'm giving it a 0 out of 10.
998) This game could be one of the best games made if it were not for its history, they want to put LGTB characters every 5 minutes by force instead of doing it organically.,,They kill the protogonist like a dog just starting the game, then they make you control the worst character of all Abby ... It is as if she was a goddess in the game no one really reproaches her, does not think that she is to blame for everything what happens the game
999) This is a breakthrough--on the perspective of broken narrative and ridiculous character design
1000) For a heavily story-based game, none matters if the story itself is critically flawed. Not graphics, not gameplay, not mechanism, not sound effects. Not to mention that the gameplay of TLOU has not evolved much compared to the first tile, and that multiple bugs occured during my playthrough.,I have no problem with so-called politically correct stuff. It is totally OK. It's just that the story has multiple systematic errors and doesn't make any sense.
1001) I thought I'd actually play and complete the game before posting a review. The gameplay is excellent (but linear). The story is probably the area that most divides people. It is a challenging and brutal tale that sometimes leads you in directions you don't want to go. But the benefits of walking in another person's shoes are tangible. Verging on a masterpiece, I'd rate it very good indeed. It many not be my personal GOTY (there are heavyweights launching later) but I suspect it'll be a close runner-up.
1002) I'm done with Naughty Dog. I'm done with Sony. Story absolutely sucks. Sony and Naughty Dog continue to silence critics. Real scummy.
1003) Disappointing in almost every way. Same old boring Naughty Dog gameplay, but where the original was propped up by a brilliant (for video games) narrative, the story here is absolute rubbish. And for a series built entirely on narrative excellence, that is the most unforgivable sin of all.,,If you are a fan of the original, do yourself a favor and pretend that this sequel doesn't exist. You'll be much happier that way.
1004) Waited 7 years for this game and ultimately it disappointed. Uninteresting characters, established characters that act completely different when they shouldn’t be. The gameplay of the game undermines the message it tries to convey, making the whole thing pointless. The “twist” doesn’t work because they completely failed at making you care about a certain character. Everything disappointed.
1005) Good graphics but really bad and slow story, forced arguments and characters.
1006) really bad, too bad,So, even with all the pros this game is really really bad. It makes NO sense that Ellie act how she acts in certain parts of the game but that isnt even the biggest thing about why its bad.,The reason is: character development.,If you kill one of the most beloved characters early in the game (Joel) and want to bring in new main playable characters like Abby, you HAVE to bring WAY more backstory in order to make the player feel with her.,I mean she KILLED Joel!,How do you make the player like her? Bring more and more backstory before she does that. Let the players play 2-10h as Abby when she was a child or whatever. The backstory of her is basically told in 10minutes and then her dad is being killed. Thats it? And now I have to feel with her and understand why she killed Joel?,Hell no!,That is weak story telling. Really really weak.,,Then there are all the other new characters. Nobody is likeable. Like really. They all feel empty. They are only shells without any meaning.
1007) This might be my most disappointing time in my short gaming histroy. I was so excited for this game just to buy it and see all the main characters be destroyed. the writing is some of the worst in Naughty dogs history. I won't be buying part 3 if it even gets made.
1008) Gameplay is good. Here's the issue. Last of Us is a story driven game first and foremost. The story here was atrocious. They added LGBT characters and I think that's neat.,,Main issue was that we waited 7 years for this game with no payoff. We didn't get to play our favorite character again, they spent most of the game trying to vilify the other main character, then tried to make you like the worst character in the series, maybe the worst character Naughty Dog has ever made.,,The ending is just.... not great. The build up is not great. Everything about this game aside from gameplay is extremely disappointing and this is amplified by the fact that we waited 7 years for this.
1009) Save ur money you don’t even play as Ellie most of the game. The game has shallow gameplay
1010) I catch about one thousand bugs so I just deleted game. If you want feel bad I recommended this game
1011) the worst scam in history. they lied in absolutely everything they announced in the game's trailer
1012) Joel dies. Not only does he die, but he dies like an animal. He dies because incompetent writers made him incompetent for the sake of getting him killed. Abby gets everything. She’s living the good life. Hey, her friends might be dying one by one, but it’s all good. She got to avenge her NPC father from the first game. What does Ellie get? Nothing. She goes on a long and arduous journey to avenge her father figure. She loses everything. She finally reaches Abby, and having piled thousands of bodies just to get to her, decides— “Eh. I’m not feeling it anymore, Mr. Krabs.” She is left alone and broken at the end of the game. Abby gets off scot free because Neil couldn’t stand the thought of killing the character he mocapped a sex scene with. The game doesn’t have a bad ending.,It has a pathetic ending.,What a waste of time. Disgraceful. You’re better off pretending it never existed.
1013) never seen more shiit game than this also 30 fps lock lmao. Also the story my god what an ass can story it was lol.
1014) Bad game they ruined it i would give it a 2 or 3 but that would only be because of the cutscene for Ellie’s birthday that’s it most if not all the characters are forgettable and overall not a good game
1015) messed up story that could not keep with the original they tried to force some stuff that dont work for the 2nd entry of this game
1016) I hate to say that but the game is trash the story doesn't make sense at all
1017) For a game that relies on it’a story to you know be good. It falls flat in so many ways. The game is gorgeous and the gameplay is good. But the story is what drives the game. And it’s just bad. The games not worth buying. If it was written better the game would have been a 10/10 but the game is a mess I’m the worst way. Pewdiepie said it was a mess. I think it’s a mess. The game sucks. They tried to do something new and they sucked at doing it.
1018) The contrast in storyline and character development between the first and second game is almost inconceivable. Almost every man in this game is depicted as a hollow shell to bring forth the liberal, progressive, feminist narrative which makes for a terrible gaming experience as it tries far too hard.,The political bias to the game, the rediculous russian hammer and sickle fight, the unnecessary trans character, the predictability of getting caught out by NPCs during cut scenes EURGHHH and the stupidly sterioded up arms of the antagonist, the poor facial expressions and narrative, it was all exhausting. The developers lied again and again in the build up to this game about not having to kill dogs, and that you'll only be playing as Ellie which is false all adds to a game that tries to bring nothing but shock value.,Couldn't wait for it to be over, I don't think I'll ever buy another Naughty Dog game again.
1019) Nothing can be said that hasn't already been said.  The series has always been known for it's story, and it's way too long and bloated on top of just being poorly written.  The score is to emphasize that more **** like this shouldn't be made in the future.
1020) Many bugs, horrible story, bad gameplay and a politician agenda forced. I expect an alternative ending.
1021) Awful, don't waste your money on such Garbage or support such awful story telling and disrespect to original players
1022) I'm sorry, but I can say only one thing about this game. This is a fkn piece of sh*t. I used to be a fan of Naughty Dog, very big fan. Ofc I was very huge lover of TLOU, but second part is really such a sh*t, that I threw my PS 4 Pro in garbage container and that isn't joke. I bought it only because of TLOU 2 and they destroyed my favourite game... Thank you, don't buy this piece of crap...
1023) Not only do they fail to tell a good story, they also destroy the whole franchise. What's worse, they seem to think we gamers are not entitled to judger the game(they tricked us to pay for one product that cannot live up to their promise while blaming on us for our negative reviews...for god sake...). What's more astonishing in this drama is more than the game itself, but the attitudes from some game creators and the way they're trying to control the media and our freedom of speech.
1024) Could have been a great continuation of the legendary first part. The whole thing was spoilt by the way that the radical feminist movement influenced the plot, the appearance of the characters and consequently the general impression of the game.
1025) I played through this game and I hate how they not only lied but made Ellie loose everything in the end that is messed up!!
1026) Finished the game. Having been developing indie video games for almost 9 years, I can confirm that although the graphics, sound design, gameplay mechanics, and the soundtrack is 10/10, the way that the story is implemented is not good at all. If you're planning to kill a legendary character(you don't actually have to), kill it in a legendary way. Joel is a character that everyone loves and cares about. People who have waited for 7 years for this game are disappointed and the game is not worth a dime from their perspective. This game is a storytelling game and without a proper story, even though all the aspects are perfect, it doesn't appeal to us. We should not be forced to play as a character that we don't like either. This game could've been at least a tiny bit better if it gave us choices at the critical points along with the story so that we could either save Joel or lose him because of making a mistake. There are many games out there that implemented the butterfly effect. No doubt that Naughty Dog could've done it as well. I guess it's all the director's fault.
1027) Hard to believe it's the same company. What the hell is this trend to intentionally disapoint fans. This is on pair with Game of Thrones season 8. And I bought PS4 to play this game I was so hyped. Please buy it second hand if you want to play it.Let's not make them believe they actually made a good game. Sales are driven by the success of TLOU1 that's all.
1028) I never thought I would ever say in my life that I hate The Last of us. They took everything that made the first one a masterpiece and just threw it in the trashcan. This is a failure in storytelling a disrespectful to the OG one and to us the players. Nothing makes sense. The whole game just tries to introduce us to a new character without giving it any dimension while the game tries super hard to just trash Elie for no reason. If at least they tried to give Abby dimension, character development instead of just making her a zebra savior and dog person. I can't believe they managed to ruin this game. I was defending the game until half when I saw that instead of choosing the path of good writing they chose the path of trying to manipulate the players. This is one of the most poorly written game I have ever played and the biggest game disappointment ever. I'm mad I threw my money away for that crappy game. I will never buy an ND game ever again. What they did is just so disrespectful to all the players who waited sooo long for this second part to happen. It's just a big slap in the face.
1029) amazingly bad. gameplay is good but the story is **** its like watching the original ghost busters then watching the new one. the new one is dog **** The way that the media have handled this has been appalling as well. Anyone who doesnt like the game has been branded a trans-phobic, homophobic piece of crap when in reality its just the ****e story line. Druckman pretends that there is no issue with the game and that all the bad reviews are just bots. wtf. I used to look up to naughty dog as theyre the creators of the uncharted series. the first last of us was a masterpiece. Its also been found that bad reviews have been deleted. Wow. The media act like we are all the problem when in reality they are getting paid to do these reviews. **** IGN **** all these **** sites
1030) The end was s... and I really hate what they have done with Joel. Also the "political correction" has pissed this game too.
1031) So u guys kill the most favourite character brutally to make us hate Abby just to let her go at the end?!? **** **** And **** critics guys dont listen to these bought reviews...
1032) Neil Druckmann is an egotistical moron who ruined this franchise, and will most assuredly take Naughty Dog down along with it.,,From Crash, to Jak, to Uncharted to even TLOU1... then this travesty happens.,,A downward spiral is beginning, and this man is the source of it all.
1033) What an absolute nightmare, this should be preserved well to show how bad game production can be.
1034) Bad story, bad plot, lots of visual bugs, this game look and feel like a movie, a 30 hours story that could be told in 10 hours or even less. The world is very bad designed, comparising with the first game, and look even worse in a base ps4. I finished this game and I don't get what is the point, "Revenge is bad, forgive is good"? Don't buy this game, it's a total waste of money.
1035) The name is "the last of us" not the "story of Abby". This game is about Joel and Elle, not about Tommy, David, not even to mention Abby. Neil knows this well and therefore he cheats.,I spent over 100 hours with Joel and Elle and within the first hour of this gameplay, Neil slaughtered Joel and forced us to play 10+ hours as Abby and wish we can understand why she slaughtered Joel? NO WAY! In that world, everyone suffers, everyone has reasons, Even David has reason to eat human. I don't care what is Abby's reason, as long as she slaughtered Joel, she has to pay the price. Neil slaughtered my Joel, Naughty Dog will pay the price.,As for Abby's reason? Come on, Abby's daddy wants to kill Elle first, Joel is about to stop murder, this action is justified even under our current law system. Even if the goal is to create a vaccine, does anyone ask Elle first? No. Unless Elle wants to give her life to create a vaccine, Abby's dad is a murder. There is no justice for Abby's revenge, period. Not even to mention Joel just saved her life 10 mins ago.,Abby's story is meaningless, if she can turn back on WLF because someone just saved her life, then she shouldn't kill Joel in the first place. If Neil wants to convince me that Abby is a good guy, he nees to work harder.,I won't deny this game is a miracle. This is the first time in my gameplay history that I wish the character die in my hand. When I play Elle part, I am careful and I don't want her gets any injure, when I see the scars in her back, it breaks my heart. As for Abby, I don't care, no stealth, all face to face battle, I just want her suffers. I won't forgive her, never. If Neil don't let Elle kill her for vengeance, I will do it. During the batter, I often stop playing and just watch, how, runner, clicker, WLF, etc, kill her. I even let her fell on purpose. How dare Neil force me to play Abby? This is unforgivable.,I won't buy any games from Naughty Dog any more unless Naughty Dog officially apologies and fire Neil.
1036) Every year since i get myself a ps4 I play The Last of Us and Left Behind minimum once.,I pre ordered part II twice. Ignored all spoilers. Never had a problem with Ellie's characteristic and knew what is coming for Joel since first trailer came out. The way it is made in part II just doesn't feels right. Storytelling method, story as it is - they are illogical for a dark world where Ellie and Joel are placed. Main theme of part II isn't new just like an original game, but there we had brilliant story and storytelling, every character was great and feels live real. Part II have beautiful picture and nothing else. Game feels like "Snow" of Nathan Drake and Tomb Raider, but Nate left it just with graphics. It was long-long and extremely boring adventure without any single reason why it must be connected with one of a best games ever created.,It full of lies, bugs (ya it is), illogical deaths and hurting fans feelings.
1037) This game was created to displease the users, and the director said not to empathize with the character.
1038) you know this game is some trash when professional critics rate it high a horrendous storyline that doesn’t even start to do justice on the originals. it’s plain bad, and the writers should feel bad.
1039) Crap game. You can tell they paid for the  high scores. Desperate to get the average up. Naughty dog pulled a Disney and destroyed what was with liberal woke garbage. Avoid this.
1040) A bad, bad game... And i never put a 0 in my life, but this game destroy EVERYTHING about TLoU lore.
1041) The game is tactless, boring and should have never been made. Wish it could have been executed better
1042) The wait was not worth it. The crunch and abuse of countless developers during a pandemic was not worth it. The story is awfully written, there’s little logic to it and you end up not caring about any of the characters. I can barely even remember half their names. If you like senseless torture p*rn, this is tour game.,The fact that the developers are doubling down, saying “lalala I can’t hear you” to any criticism and only listening to unchallenging praise and bootlicking leaves a disgusting feeling in the pit of my stomach. Don’t buy this product.
1043) It hurts me to give this a 0. But i had to . Im a massive fan of the first game. However i cannot express my absolute frustration and disappointment with how this has turned out. Not only that but Druckmann took 7 years and said '' would do JUSTICE for characters''. Not only did he lie , but the trailers published were fabricated to believing that the main character is alive. I feel manipulated , played and laughed at by naughty dog and the entire team. And then i get forced to play with the character that ruined the game . Ellie has been made weak somehow as well and the end is just disappointing and meaningless.,,RIP to a great legacy ruined by this so called ''sequel'' .
1044) In a game where story is paramount, failing in that department is unfortunately going to affect very negatively the final score. The writers use any ham-fisted technique to try to engage you in the story and emphasize with its characters. Unfortunately this narrative strategy produces the opposite effect, making us not care.,,The gameplay and visuals are very good, but for those alone I could have bought a different game,,,The story of the Last of Us should have stopped at part 1.
1045) It's boring, is preaching, is broken, is money wasted, and they refuse to give refunds..,This is not a game, made to entertain you. This "game" is hate speech against you.
1046) One for the first half of the gameplay. Zero for whatever comes next. If the goal of this game is to create the **** story ever I would have given it 10/10 cuz it did that with style. If you are here for gameplay and graphics you would really love this game. If you’re passionate about the storyline of the game this is your time to turn back cuz man you are lucky. I wish i can return in time. It was simpler times to live. Now all I think about is how can they fu.. up a story like this. I believe it had became a trend to bad writing as we have seen in GOT, Star Wars, the man at the high castle, ..... etc . I don’t know if there’s a virus that’s only targeting writing after their first publish and let them become dumber and dumber as they go or do some men just want to watch the world burn.,Thanks for reading my review.
1047) I Waited 7 Long Years Just to Be disappointed by this Trash Fire Garbage of A Game, the Graphics are Absolutely stunning, the Game Mechanics are alright, the Stealth is the strongest part of the game but the story is The absolute worst. we don’t won’t to play half the game as the antagonist who just killed the most popular character Joel brutally just so they can justify her actions, in the End Ellie the surrogate Daughter of Joel to massacre hundreds of people and all of abby’s friends to give up at the finish line and let Abby and Lev go and lose her fingers, she even loses Dina her girlfriend and her stepson because of these events. There is also major plot holes in the story and The game took elements of what worked for the first game without understanding what made them compelling. It seems like this game was done by other studio. The advertising for the game was miss leading us to believe that was about something it was not and trying to tell us Joel was bigger part of the story than he actually was, if they had to keep the story the same they should of have finished the game on the tractor with JJ. In the end worst triple A game of 2020 and worst Naughty Dog Game the should just ended it at the first one...
1048) How sarcastic that a game publicizes itself as being diverse and friendly to every group eventually showing discrimination and stereotypes towards Asians from every part of the game! Not to mention this garbage studio's parent company is Japanese.  As a video gamer, I am ashamed for this industry to let such an electronic garbage full of bias and racism exists in the market.
1049) The most disappointing and unfulfilling game I’ve ever had the displeasure of playing.
1050) very weak game :/ this is game? this is some joke like fallout 76. That graphic in 2020 ? please :D
1051) Technically speaking the game looks very impressive while running at a stable framerate to boot so props to the artists and engineers. From a story and gameplay perspective is where I feel it just falls apart. Subpar third person shooting mechanics with a story that’s on par with Game of Thrones season 8 in terms of destroying itself. If the developers had been more concerned with telling a good story and less with subversion and their own personal politics, the game probably would’ve been a lot better. As it is, I feel like I’m playing through an advertisement for Druckman’s political opinions where the game is just a mouthpiece. Other stories have done really well without shoehorning or coming off as preachy like HBO’s “Wokemen” and this. Definitely skip or buy heavily discounted in a couple years if you’re interested in the tech.
1052) Two fingers out of ten. Ten out of ten Golf clubs.Seven long years paid off.
1053) I played the game expecting something dark but not like this. The last of u part 2 is excessively bleak and depressing and lacking in what made the first game great
1054) The ending gave me testicular cancer. Hate the overall theme of the game. Wasted money. This game should never have came out.
1055) Metacritc removed my review on my old account because of its "content" and I suspect they've been using that excuse to remove a lot of other negative reviews because this game does not deserve a 4.9. Metacritic, do not remove my review again. Ive heard a lot of people saying "This game doesn't deserve a 10/10 but it definitely doesn't desrve a 0/10" fs Naughty Dog flat out lied to you during the marketing for the game, they abused their staff to the point of hospitalisation and they issued false copyright claims on youtube channels who merely discussed the leaks, which is illegal btw. So yeah, as far as i am concerned this game has truely earned its 0 out of 10,For the record, i went into this game with an open mind and did not look at the leaks as i was hyped for the game. I completed the game from start to finish and so did everyone who are giving this game the **** reviews it deserves and anyone saying people are giving this game the terrible reviews it deserves because they are homophobic then they definitely didnt play the first game. Because guess what? Ellie is still gay in that game but everyone still loves her beacuse being gay is her sexuality not her personality unlike in this terrible game. Some of the "good" points about this game that keep coming up are its graphics and gameplay. Like i mentioned Naughty Dog abused their staff for years and drove them to quit or end up in hospital. This abuse was the catalyst for the leaks and anyone thinking that some how hackers caused the leaks are **** stupid. So yeah, if you work your staff 24 hours a day then the graphics have to be good fs. The gameplay is the exact same as TLOU apart from a **** rope and jump button and the mainstream gaming media were sucking them new features off, like fs its a jump and rope addition its not that **** great
1056) Worst game I've ever played if I'd want to make a storyteller game at least they should make a consistent story and a better decision making, playing as Abby was a big mistake, it doesn't matter what Joel did you just can't force player to kill him. Enough when all the suckers saying this is mature and a masterpiece this game is horrible and just an ideology seller they poop on everything that make the last of us great
1057) I'm happy i didn't buy it. YOU KILLED JOEL ?? WTF is wrong with you ?? Remake this game
1058) terrible story telling. Complete disappointment.,Wont go too much in detail.,The characters are all out of character,especially Joel and Tommy. They are apparently two biggest idiots in this game and blindly trust strangers. They re not stupid.,They literally force you to play as Abby, person who killed Joel. They re p much forcing you to have a connection with Abby and her friends, but honestly the only character I liked from the group was Mel. Abby's parts are honestly so boring and pointless. People p much speedrun her parts.,This game is a complete let down, devs should be ashamed.
1059) scammer developer, misleading trailer and teaser. Wasting money on the game
1060) Disappointing. Not even close to the first game. I guess that's the new standard on games nowadays, disappoint the players.
1061) Awful writing by Neil in every way. To make it all even worse a politically correct agenda is forced upon the player. I don't think the writing could have been any worse. I'm actually disgusted. People have been waiting for 7 years for this game. You're also forced to play as Abby for 10 hours, a very unlikable, character, which I didn't even bother with and sold my game when I realized this.
1062) What a letdown,,I don't think that I can add anything that wasn't already said why this game doesn't work as sequel to the Last of Us.,Other then the graphics which are seriously astonishing, I can't say much of a positive to anything.,The length of the game is also problem, it overstays it's welcome, story I don't even want to open this Pandora's box, but in short it is as terrible.,Gameplay wise it is just the Last of Us with smoother animations and ability to dodge upcoming attacks, so nothing special.,I wouldn't be as harsh as many people are that the game is 0/10, no game is that bad, maybe some terrible iOS/Android game for kids is really 0/10 but not this one, I would give it like 5/10 but I can also be hypocrite like a lot of reviewers that gave this game 10/10 even though they mentioned many times in the review they didn't like this or that.,So 0/10 is I think fair score for this game.,Really don't understand what was the end goal for Naughty Dog here, seems like they took inspiration from SW: the Last Jedi, movie that subverted our expectations with no payoff, basically this is the same, the Last of Us 2 subverts our expectations with no payoff.
1063) this games a violation of the memory of the first game , to neil druckman WHAT THE HELL WERE YOU THINKING you said back when this was announced... we will honour these characters we will see you right ( to the fans ) what a lie , avoid this abomination of a sequel i waited years for and am gutted.
1064) Disaster. The first game was a masterpiece, this one was shameless. Bad writting.
1065) This was absolutely horrible. I have no idea what they were thinking. Why was undoing everything established in the first game necessary? Why make Joel so naive as to go with strangers to an unknown location? Also, the unnecessary level of bonding with dogs you have to kill... And the ending for gods sake, you end up just letting Abby live, after she destroyed everything in your world??? What the hell naughty dog? Graphics? 10000/100, gameplay? 10000/100.
1066) Worst story ever since Game of Thrones Season 8.,Whoever signed that should get fired cause he was seriously only looking for cheap money grap.,Maybe even watched too much ST Picard. Refund and never buy a game from them again.,Site even blocks negative reviews and only lets post positive ones. How shady can you be?
1067) I'm sure that someone already explained, why this game is such a mess and a disrespect to the antecedent...
1068) This is complete insult to old fans. How come this is a masterpiece? Naughty dog destroyed expectation.
1069) Good graphics.,Common game-play.,BAD STORY.,Hypocritical media public relations.,This is not an entertainment product, this is an ongoing disaster.,The Social Justice Warriors and Political Correctness destroyed this game.,If we keep silent, The S.J.W. and P.C. will control the whole industry.
1070) the graphics is amazing very cinematic game like everyone was hoping for but the story is garbage
1071) The in-game physics and graphics make it a good game without doubt. But the terrible narratives and plots in this sequel totally ruined . The more deep you love TLoU, the more disgust and abomination you will experience playing-through TLoU2.
1072) Huge dissappointment.  Developers tryin to be woke and shoved in my face. Didnt even get half way through.
1073) The best aspect of its predecessor was the story, it has been completely obliterated on this sequel, you can thank naughty dog for ruining such a once epic franchise, well done ND, WELL DONE...
1074) TLDR: Gameplay is fun, it's the last of us but better, story is hot garbage, nihilistic, full of cliches and "how convenient" moments. 4/10, gave it a 0 because of the positive review bombing it's getting. Game is not a 10, but that's all of the positive reviews. if you want a longer more thought out explanation of my thoughts, watch upper echelon gamings review on this, matches me pretty well, can't link apparently.,,For hardcore fans of the first game, do yourself a favor and give this a pass. I played through the first "the last of us" 4 or 5 times over the years and have no intention of going back to this one. I'll make a list of pros and cons but in short, gameplay is fun as ever, expanded stealth mechanics and melee made the game much more engaging and fun. That being said, the plot was some of the most contrived cliche horse dung I've had the displeasure of playing, and that's saying something considering the first game had it's fair share of unbelievable moments. And this isn't me griping about X or Y character died, or didn't die etc, I actually wound up liking the ending more than I thought I was going to half way through the game, but the story was just tiring by the end of it, and i just wanted it to be over. Literally I took a two day break from playing and forced myself to finish it, just so I got to experience how it ended rather than read it. They GoT season 8'd this one.,,Pros:,Stealth is much more engaging, being able to go prone and hide in grass, crawl under obstacles was a welcome change.,,Some added mechanics made gun fights and running from enemies more entertaining like squeezing through cracks in the walls. (though some seem like they could have just been cut. The removing the arrow thing they showed off in trailers? I actually had to do this a whopping 3 times the whole game) Some weapons get new ammo types, you can make a suppressor for your pistol etc.,,The game is gorgeous as expected, creeping through dark infested areas were as tense as ever, and getting a good view of an area is awesome.,,Added some new enemies, good and bad, stealth infected, heavy melee wielding humans, and they all feel mostly organic ( i like that they call out a name if someone dies or they find a body, but how many Amir's and Skylar's can there really be?),,Cons:,(first off spoilers) Story is the big one here. Characters do things that just do not make sense, even for naughty dog touting that they want to make characters act like people and not characters( maybe it wasn't naughty dog that said this but still) People just happen to be the perfect place, some fights make no sense at all, when abby has to fight ellie, the fact she doesn't get obliterated by the girl who still has all her weapons on her, and is known for traps and stealth is astounding. Truly. Tommy is shot in the head but alive?? Looks like they were going for "oh it went out his eye" Yeah and Jesse got blasted in the eye and he's toasted. Nonsense.,,End Spoilers,,Enemies: while some of the new ones are refreshing, some of them just get tiring, the big  heavy melee guys I mentioned, should not be able to take multiple shots to the chest from a hunting rifle, just because they're big. You've got a punctured lung, shot in the gut, a bullet lodged in your sternum, plus a few more holes that missed vitals, but that's still a lot of blood. You're not infected, so you're not superman, just go down my man.,,Marketing, which I can only describe as deceitful, I'll try to avoid spoilers, and this kind of ties back to the story. A big character is dead, early on, but they released trailers, one in particular where they are clearly alive, and with ellie after she sets off. But, when you get to that moment, they just swapped them for a different character. I get trying to avoid reveals in trailers, but that's nothing but trying to deceive and build hype for the game. Additionally, I had no idea there would be a character swap in this game, never had I seen any indication of this. And besides that, it's like they went out of their way to make this other character dislikable, but still force you to see their part implying "see? They have struggles too, they have people they love too, they're the same!" Or some **** and to that I say F**k off. The first scenes of the game make it clear how that character will behave, and we're supposed to feel sorry for them or something? Give me a break. This isn't game of thrones, and even if it was, did anyone feel sorry for Cersei?,,Flashbacks: Oh my lord, not much to say here other than please, for the love of god, stop with the flashbacks. I would have enjoyed this game a lot more, if they had just told the story in order. And that would have reframed a lot of the conflict of the game rather than just be told later "oh see this? They were a kid too!" No **** naughty dog.,,In short. Their themes all fall flat due to weak manipulation attempts and plot contrivances.
1075) This sequel was butchered by Naughty Dog like Ellie taking a knife to the throat an innocent NPC.,This is probably the worst sequel I've ever played. It's actually nothing like the first game outside of gameplay (which is EXACTLY THE SAME). The themes and tropes of the first game have been replaced with "muh cycle of revenge". The entire message of the game is not subtle, but rather beaten into your head over and over, similar to the fate of a beloved main character.,The story is actually one of the most pretentious dog piles I've ever witnessed. The writing thinks it's 100 times more profound than it actually is. In reality it's about as deep as a puddle.,The entire game exists to massage the egos of the developers.,Naughty Dog no longer gets a pass after this one.
1076) Loved the first game, but this sequel tried to push its agenda through characters like Eillie and Abby rather than good story telling. By starting it the same way Terminator dark fate did. Beloved franchises dying is apparently the new normal.
1077) great graphics. great design of maps. good musics.,but story was absolutely 'GOJA',worst game ever in my life.
1078) With the Games  main characters Joel from the first dead and Ellie non existing with another main character as dull as a door. This game is something you need to play to experience how poorly it is. A Paid £50 for a game
1079) The game doesn’t understand its players. It’s focus is directed more towards sending a message than it is to telling a story. The ending feels like a punch in the face. You’re telling me that Ellie kills hundreds of «bad guys» who have families (and dogs) and feelings and still she just lets Abby go? Ellie didn’t realize beforehand that Joel wouldn’t want Ellie to waste her life?,Everything that made the first game so amazing is just gone from the second game. The 10 hour long journey to make us understand Abby just left a sour taste in my mouth. It felt like a bad DLC and I was constantly waiting for it to end. Besides, Abby was a spiteful and bad person. Her dad was about to kill a 14 year old girl, and she doesn’t understand why Joel would defend that girl? Her dad even expressed uncertainty when faced with the question of what he’d do if it was Abby who was immune, and still she doesn’t understand why Joel did what he did? Mel was right, Abby is a piece of ****,I could rant forever about how bad and disappointing this game is, but the game doesn’t deserve my time. Words can’t describe how bad this game is, but numbers can. 0/10,Gorgeous graphics and fun gameplay tho!
1080) To be honest The game play is awesome the environment is beautiful But they destroyed the story,I dont like the game and i will not be excited for any new LAST OF US anymore Rest in peace LAST OF US
1081) Horrible game!! Garbage storytelling!! Terrible character development! A Filthy dirty stain in the gaming industry!!! Shameful Naughty Dog!! Fraudulent business practices.  Boycott Naughty Dog!!!
1082) Spoiled Character,Spoiled Story,Can't give message,,Well I think game has great graphic&OST, and decent when played game.,But I can't understand story especially ending. Ending make spoiled what they want to say, lol.,It can't give any message just give hatred.
1083) Worst story ever.There was nothing enjoyable about this. Go waste your money on another game.
1084) This is not a game this is propaganda.,Every minute this game promotes its "children" views. This is not a post-apocalypse, it is a rape of common sense.
1085) It breaks my heart and soul to have to write this, but I can't keep it in. The whole story is made to subvert expectations, but it is done just for that sake, done very poorly. Joel dies for nothing, there are no good moments between him and Ellie. Nobody else important dies, but Ellie loses everything. It is sad just for the sake of being sad. The media wants to make it about gamers hating LGBTQ and women, but we don't care that certain characters are the way they are. We simply don't want that to be the focus, just like Ellie being lesbian wasn't the focus in the first game. The game was about Joel doing whatever it took to survive and protect Ellie. Part 2 should've been Ellie doing whatever it took to get revenge for Joel or Dina. Playing as Abby sucks, its the worst thing I have ever had and not wanted to do in a video game. Consider my expectations subverted. As I said, Joel dying is the only meaningful thing that happens, other than that Ellie just loses everything, and yeah it's sad. And killing Abby at the end wouldn't make up for that. There are plot holes in almost every main plot point, especially with the way Joel acts, and with Ellie too. I did not want to play the second half of the game, I didn't even want to play after Joel died because his death was meaningless, in the end, the whole "quest" was just for Ellie to lose even more. I don't know everything I'm feeling, but I know I am just sad. I can't cry over this anymore, and I take solace in the fact that others agree with me, and we know that this just doesn't make sense. 0/10, I am sorry for everyone that knows this exists, I know many of us wish it ended with the first game, and I think we truly can believe that it did, and this is just so absurd that we can realize it is simply a mistake, tainted by Neil Druckmann, and Anita Sarkeesian, not because there are women, lesbians, and (possibly) transgenders in it, but because it is not a part 2 of The Last of Us, it is a completely different monster that makes no sense, and focuses on the wrong issues of a post-apocalyptic world, and changes the characters in an unrealistic and borderline absurd way. Also, the false advertising through the trailers changing the ages of Joel and Ellie, and in one case replacing Jesse with Joel, is a pretty significant issue. Nobody deserved this, and once again, I am truly, deeply sorry, and saddened that this is the way it went. My heart is broken.
1086) Naughty dog took advantage of their good will earned from their previous games, Not Pre-ordering ever again, story = 0,Graphics = 10,Very disappointing.
1087) what made the first game great is gone. it was never about game mechanics or graphics, it was the story that made TLoU one of the best games of it's generation...so , if you take away the good story, what have you got left. horrible, just horrible
1088) we were tricked, terrible **** we wanted to play with ellie and joel and they spit in our faces.
1089) they destroyed the whole story, this is not a continuation the story is very very bad, abby had to die in the ugliest and most painful way possible
1090) No one needs to play this terrible game to learn such trivial and redundant message what the developers are trying to say.,Meaningless of Hate and revenge?,Everyone knows it and does not want to pay such money to get such trivial message.,Users are not idiot. Don't try to educate players, you truly arrogant stupids.,No one expects Joel must survive, at least you should show some respectful walk-off.,Playing Abby is disgusting and makes me puke.
1091) The game is nothing less than a 7 out of 10. The middle portion of the game is slow, and arguably unnecessary. While slow, it's a masterpiece of video game creation. Graphics, animations, and sound are the best of the generation. The story and lies (from previous trailers) are what hold this back.
1092) This was disappointing. SJW issues and left wing agenda propaganda getting shoved down the players throat.
1093) Totally not worthy, its not even a videogame, it's just a bad movie with bad characters
1094) Story is a dumpster fire of ruining character progression for shock value and they force you to play as Joel's murderer. Sat there forever trying to come to grips that I have to play this character just to wrap up the story. It's a struggle to get through that part just for "oh hey killing is bad guys" after murdering hundreds of people and... good bois. I can't bash in the skull of Joel's murderer? No choice just... nah. Game play is basically the same but no issue there. Graphics are exceptional if that's all you care about. 1 point just for great graphics and voice acting.
1095) I preordered this and avoided all the spoilers/news beforehand, but was so disappointed with this game. The graphics are amazing but the writing is atrocious with a forced “woke” SJW agenda. Complete 180 from the masterpiece that was the original. We get it, Ellie is a lesbian (that’s been clear from the spin off game), but the writers find a way to constantly remind viewers of some character’s sexuality every 10 minutes. The sex scene was also so unnecessary. It just feels like the writers would have preferred to make **** videogame porn instead.
1096) Shambolic. Don't spend your game on this terrible game made by greedy developers who lack the creativity and talent to make a good story.
1097) This **** **** SUCKED. Who ever is rooting for Abby needs to leave. She is toxic. I can’t wait for Abby to die hopefully in a dlc or something.
1098) The game plays well but the main focus "the story" makes the final season of GOT looks like a masterpiece especially if you loved the first one like I did
1099) This is an extremely bad game.  While the graphics are top notch and the gameplay is smooth, the story is complete garbage.  Joel, the main protagonist from the first game, is brutally murdered by Abby.  Most of the characters from the first game act contrary from how they were in the first game.  You are forced to play as Abby in a petty revenge story even after brutally murdering him.  Ellie kills most of the group that hunted down and killed Joel.  In the end, Ellie, after losing everything lets Abby go.  This is so ridiculous.  The story is one of the worst I've ever encountered in a video game.  The marketing was also manipulated so that players thought that Joel was still alive and would play a bigger role in the game.
1100) This is another proof that graphic cannot save bad plot. The ending is just as disgusting as it can be! NPC live matters!!!
1101) Nope, not worth it. Storyline was absolutely horrendous but gameplay was eh. Last of Us thrives on their story and they messed it up.
1102) If I criticize the game, they demand that I buy the game, when I do, I finish it and I don't like it, they boast that it was the best-selling as if that justification was enough to make the game good, but it's not .
1103) Don't buy this game. Such a wasted potential. First game is amazing but that one just pathetic.
1104) Unfortunately, game developers today think they can teach and control people.
1105) It's just a S.J.W. based game without any real game play. Don't give them money for such a bad game. Worst of all.
1106) worst game ever. it's a slap in the face for Last of US I fans. DO NOT BUY IT.
1107) Would you believe it if you were trampling on your memories, stuck in a grave, and then twerking on it? Surprisingly, this is what NaughtyDog did to us as his next work. Part two was born because there was part one, and they insulted the person who enjoyed part one. They have no understanding of their fans, no respect for any character from previous work, and They're trying to force us into it with only trashy beliefs. Companies that don't understand gamers needs will follow Blizzard's path.
1108) Your level design it's a worst, who i seen in a lot of games, how story line can,look like a very bad game
1109) They messed up what was great and meaningful about the story. Highly not recommended.
1110) Everyone (player, developer) is crying except ND.  The GOLF game is much better than this.
1111) You can't call the game is not THE LAST OF US.,No soul.,No zombies.,No story.,Its garbage.
1112) Nothing to say that Iam rly disappointed.. And I rly hoped for a nice hyped game with a good story...
1113) i just bought this game and after play this a week, i am very disappointed, the history argument is not intelligent, and is in so many things is very boring , its like a bad tv program, failed totally to deliver.
1114) The story was very forced in some parts, I was disappointing, but in a very bad situation, Tommy and Joel trusted a person without even asking what she was doing there and arguing about, once Joel was or suspected, that doesn't change in a callous person like him, and Tommy in good faith, just like the beginning of one when Joel didn't want to stop giving a ride to a family when the outbreak broke out. Abby's own revenge, after 5 years, is a little forced and finds its target as it was, given on a platter, once again forced. An interesting point, despite the strength, playing with Abby should cause aversion, Joel's postmortem gameplay, as much as fighting Ellie. Ellie's moments of remembrance with Joel are very touching, the highest point in history, the only point that is not forced, emotional! Another forced part was done by Tommy, demanding Ellie's participation, Tommy always seems to be calmer than Joel, trying to do less or worse, time to stay on fire because he believes in the ideals of the group, then in Jackson, starting a family and using City . In the end, less, Ellie didn't kill Abby, I was already rooting for either, I was already totally lost and Ellie paid a very high price and didn't see how it could be different. Be surprised that Ellie has known the whole truth since the beginning of the story, the group's motivation was already predictable, and to hope that Ellie's revenge would be balanced with the truth told by Abby and Tommy by denying or confirming everything. The story of the first one was the best because it was fluid, without forcing it, you could understand or Joel when he resisted bonding with Ellie and then killing the workspaces to save Ellie. Naughty Dog was audacious with the story, because it is not an infiltration of Abby in Jacksson, as the group was planning and ending a revenge in the first meeting between Abby and Ellie, it was interesting the attempt to provoke aversion when using Abby, but if one the intention was to create sympathy, try to make the player understand Abby's side, I don't think I did, a person who keeps security for 5 years and leaves a recent murder of his friends alive, doesn't make any sense to me.
1115) era melhor nem ter lançado,,this game would be awesome if it didn't existed
1116) Disclaimer: I don't give a **** if Ellie is gay or if she now identifies as a man.,,For me, TLOU 1 has one the most breathtaking and immersive storylines of any game I have ever played. I was almost in tears in the first 30 minutes of the game and the ending left me feeling broken and empty.,,With TLOU 2, it seems they have totally ditched everything they built up (story wise) and went in a totally different direction.,,A shame really.,,But hey, apparently if I think the TLOU 2 is **** because the story sucks, then I'm anti LGBT.
1117) This game is just a nonsense. Im pissed off, this story makes no sense.  Do not buy this game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   I played the first game and i just loved it,but this one is just a big  ****
1118) It started good playing as Ellie. Then the second half the game playing as Abby, Joels killer where painful. She is the most unlikable character possible. How can it be good to go from Ellie to that thing. Just wishing the game ends asap and never re play it.
1119) I've played some terrible games (and enjoyed them), but this game takes the cake. Worst story I've ever experienced. The woman they push as the new main character is a psychopath, and like her friends, isn't likable at all. I could go on with the negatives, but I don't think care enough about it to rant anymore. All this being said, the graphics and gameplay are amazing, top tier. This game feels like a slap in the face, I'll just replay the first for years to come.
1120) In 2020, there is so much going on. I just want to enjoy a good game, but instead, TLOU 2 gave me a nightmare.,This is a great disappointment. I am a big fan of Naughty Dog studio since Uncharted 1,2,3 & 4 as well as Last of us. The whole development team from Last of us part 2 seems don't understand the core success of the first game. It's not about gameplay, its about the characters and story. In part 2, they decided to throw them all away; characters are disposable for the sake of the story. If Naughty Dog is so confident about their game, why didn't they promote Abby in the first place and let us know that we will be controlling Ellie and Abby in this game? The answer is simple; they know the reason why we bought this game, coz we wanna see more interaction between Joel and Ellie. So they decided to give us a fake trailer and lure us into buying this piece of garbage. I know Joel will die, but the way you treat him is unacceptable. And still, try so hard to make Abby likable and sympathy her. AGAIN, I don't care about her. No matter how hard ND tries, I still won't like Abby. Even you gave her better weapons, better gameplay. Sorry, I just can't relate to her or what so ever.,The beauties of the first game are characters driven the story, but in part 2 is story-driven characters, which led to unreasonable action for different characters, such as Joel, Ellie, and Tommy. Naughty Dog, please stop finding excuses for yourself. We, gamers, do not care about your PC stuff. If you can get us a good story, none of that matters. I hope ND can learn from this mistake and bring us more good games in the future. I still have hope for you, please don't let me down.
1121) The only factor I care about this game is the story and everything related to it.,Last of us 2 is a mess of storytelling and character development.,Everything else is great but I couldn't care less.,So if the story is bad in a story based game then it's a bad game.,Cheers
1122) Superficial characters, poor storytelling and illogical story.,Gameplay is good but just the inheritance from the TLOU 1.,Very Disappointed.
1123) I was a big fan of The Last Of Us I have played it over and over again. I just finished the game and the story just seems forced and the plot seems like it was not given much thought considering how the first game was delivered to the audience in such a masterful way. The game play is very similar to the first one so I don't see how this can be the game of a generation. The graphics and fighting is amazing but the story was a let down and not just because of the death of one of the main characters. Streets of Rage 4 should get more hype then this game. I play it online and with my daughter on a weekly basis it is an awesome game on the higher difficulty levels. STREETS OF RAGE 4 GET IT! You also cannot compare this game to Red dead redemption 2.
1124) Top kek my dudes, but i'm not trolling i was a big fan of the first game and this is by far the greatest spit to my face i've ever recieved.. generic gameplay, graphics and characters.. lmao, the only thing that's good of this piece of trash is the memes.
1125) This game sucks....  this game is a real disaster....  the story is so...  stupid.,,Joel DIED from the beginning of the game..,,naughty dogs   shame of you!!!!
1126) If not because so many 10/10 out of no where I would probably give it a 3 or 4 considering the graphics are good.,,But cannot bear with Naughty Dog's attempt to mute and demonize the critics, their "bribery" to the fake media, and their questionable ethics (they cheat us on their trailers) has me suspect where these 10/10 coming from.,,So, 0/10
1127) Bad storytelling ever, i mean, the graphic and the gameplay are great, the soundtrack is so-so. However, the story? Wow, it really annoys and make me disapointed in many ways. I hope more than this after 7 years.
1128) I just finished this abomination and created this account to join in adding my voice to the rest of the fans of the previous game who feel aggrieved and let down by Naughty Dog.  What on earth were they thinking?  Didn't they actually play the last game?  I'm asking Naughty Dog for my money back.  The story plainly is awful; Joel's early demise is handled without respect for the history we as the gamer have had with him.  Is it simply a poor copy of the "Sarah" moment from TLOU for the sake of an early shock to roll the opening credits to?  The characters just don't capture that great chemistry that Joel & Ellie had from TLOU, Dina & Ellie just don't have it, their story / interactions were just boring or annoying and felt more like pushing an agenda rather than making or developing a story.  Ellie & Riley from the Left Behind DLC were much better.  However, their dull contributions cause nowhere near as much grief as the proverbial knife in the back from Naughty Dog in forcing us to play half the game as Abby, Joel's killer.  This is a character that has no redeeming qualities or interest to me whatsoever. I feel bad for all the animators and mo-cap artists whose work I didn't see because I skipped her cut scenes at every opportunity I could in order to get to the end of her appearances; I just didn't care less what happened to her and I often fed her to the infected or threw her off tall buildings in the hope that it would enact some kind of digital voodoo to give the writers violent diarrhoea of an equally appropriate level.  I cannot believe I waited seven years for this.  I don't buy Joel getting caught by a group of well armed strangers given his experience of years as a smuggler and even sometime hunter and I don't buy Ellie wading through dozens of killings (of other people) to meet her nemesis (twice!) only to let her go after realising "killing bad" without any kind of communication or resolution other than more fighting.  It just doesn't make sense - its a triple kick in the teeth - Joel's death, Awful Abby and Ellie's Revenge that wasn't.  This is not a worthy sequel, its not even a funny parody.
1129) horrible story, it looks like they forgot the first game and did this, do not play, it is not worth your time
1130) It’s a big shame what happened to this franchise from the masterpiece it was in the first game to this trash ,simply one of the worst sequels in gaming history , the story is poorly written and pointless with no progression  ,the characters are unlikable and making stupid Decisions ,the gameplay with good at first hours but it gets tedious with time considering its a30 hours game the only good thing about this game is the graphics and animations but overall it’s a **** game and a waste of time
1131) extremely heartbreaking, i avoided the spoilers/leaks i was about to go out and get a physical copy then i accidentally saw a tweet saying Joel died in the first 2 hours of the game and at that point i don't care anymore i started watching gameplays, read user reviews and it's all true, a complete garbage ruined by some people who think they made creative choices and bold moves but in reality they delivered garbage with a cheap shock value plot twist that nobody asked for. Joel, Ellie, the programmers/graphics team deserve so much better than this awful game.
1132) this is the worst story i have ever seen ! graphic are so good and animations too and even gameplay but since this game is story based NOPE completely destroy the first one storyline !! worst buy this year as far as i can remember.
1133) The story is pure trash, i wna delete it from my memories and never play it again
1134) Not only were we deceived in the plot trailers. We were given the killer Joel, as one of the main characters of the game, this is disgusting. The game is good, but because of the dullness of the plot and the terrible ending, I put zero.
1135) The part where you have to play as abby 12 hours.... kills the whole game. I don't care about wolfs or fireflies  I just want to play as Ellie, and with her friends. Way to ruin my all time favorite game. Good job naughty dog good job.....
1136) If you plan to play it you just SHOULD NOT , it will let you down so bad they killed all the hope I was having for this game ...... Joel Should Have Better Ending . Than That **** One .. I'm very sad & angry
1137) Horrendous game. The writing is completely inconsistent, is fundamentally completely different from the first game in terms of its theme, and is overall terrible. Makes you feel like a terrible person for absolutely no reason, only play if torture and misery are your thing, or if you think unnecessary graphic and grotesque imagery and pessimistic themes of misery, loss, violence and vengeance are something you're into.,,If you played the first one and enjoyed it, for the love of god do not play this. You will be massively disappointed.
1138) The game is sucks why the rite 94 ‘?? She doesn't deserve it , she deserves 0%
1139) My disappointment for the story line that was presented in "The Last of Us Part 2" is immeasurable. This game is missing the soul that was in the original game. There is so much wrong with this game....,,But I am emotionally exhausted because of how terrible this plot went.,,Thanks NaughtyDog. You ruined some amazing characters.,,To put it in Joel's own words.,"There was a sequel. It wasn't as good"
1140) I waited for this game, for soooooo long. And now... I'm so dissapointed....
1141) 0/10 storyline, probably the worst i seen, not logic and boring with the living dead feeling. 5/10 for gameplay, better than the first game but nothing special either compare to it
1142) Main characters motivations feel forced and unbelievable most part of the time. They are always unable to understand the big picture of the game thay are part.
1143) One of the worst AAA game.  horrible plot. don't buy! who can return my money and time?!!!!!!
1144) the fact that this "Game" is sonys most selling game shows that you dont need a good game to succeed. you only need to hype your **** game and start to milk the cow...,"gaming journalists" are giving the game 95-100 reviews because they are afraid to get blacklisted by naughty dog. on the other site people are giving it a 0 but didnt play the game.,i watched the game while pewdipie streamed it.,pewdipie gave it a 6/10, which is just blant mediocre, while i had the feeling that this game is not even a 1 out of 10...
1145) Allí the story centers arround is elly's and Joel's sexuality and It os not a good story
1146) This game is **** I would elaborate but most people have already done that so....yeah. After playing to the end I can proudly say, this is the worst game I have ever played...EVER.
1147) I can’t bring myself to give this game a score better than 0 because of how betrayed and deceived and robbed I feel right now. I would write a long review about all the things this game didn’t get right but I’m not sure it’s worth my energy. Thanks for ruining the francise ND.
1148) 5 years waiting and such disappointment,,for me the game ended with  Part One.,There isn't Part 2 for me
1149) only the grafics looks good,and part 1 was epic,no one thought naughtydog could screw up a masterpiece,but adding anita... did
1150) This is simply an awful, awful game. I thoroughly enjoyed the previous TLOU game, but they managed to both ruin the gameplay sections of the game as well as the story elements of the game with some terrible writing, especially towards the end.,,I will give credit to good accessibility options. That's it.
1151) I hate this game because of changing the level of the story and supporting anomaly
1152) It looks like critic never played this game before! This game supposed to be the best game ever created in this time. They mess it up big time, Not only they killed Joel main character but also they mess up with new character Abby that no body fuxvlkdj;ldsfkj care about! and you have to play many hours. Do they seriously think player are forgotten about the past and let's move on. What in the world they thinking? Please fire the story maker and never come back to gaming world plz. What a shame for them and shame of myself to play this game and waiting for long time.
1153) Way to ruin a game guys. Not believable  situations. They ignore basic human behavior and change it out for this PC insanity. Nobody acts like this IRL. ugh. It went from very good to why? Just like that.
1154) If you wonder if the game really is that bad to be deserving a 0/10 (if you can even call it that, really tries to be more of a movie / walking simulator / interactive storytelling experience) - yeah, it is. The story is abysmal and illogical holy schmokes. Gameplay has been simplified compared to part 1, and there is less action of that simplified gameplay, too.
1155) Just... Why? This has no respect for its characters, its fans, the first game, even the "theme" of revenge is horribly done. And the ending... 2020/10, this year has nothing good to give us. Please, let Cyberpunk be released in 2021 and not this doomed year.
1156) Ever since before the end credits, The Last Of Us already become my favorite videogame ever. Never I loved a game so much, never felt so close to such intimate characters, trapped by its atmosphere. I wanted to love Part II even more, (and I did with absolute passion) and struggled to keep that feeling until it was impossible.,I have been maturing my opinion on the game for days and like many others I have never decided to write a review on this website until now.,I don't write this to give myself credibility but because apparently nowdays the only authority to opine on a videogame is held by videogame websites, whose only reason to exist is to help selling videogames. According to those media, opinion of real players is pure review-bombing without any value, as they have been unanimously sentencing for weeks all over the internet.,I would like to write in detail about my impressions of the game, but I feel disappointed and emotionally dejected to do that tour again even in my memory.,Furthermore, there is little that has not already been said about the impeccable and unparaleled tecnical work and inmersion feeling Naughty Dog has achieved in this game.,Sadly there is a point when a studio forgets for whom they make videogames and start to be more interested in doing something paradigmatic for the critics, something that nobody dared before, rather than making an actual good videogame for the players. They abandoned the philosophy that made them great, poisoned with ambition.,"This is for the players" says Sony. Well, it looks like this is more for themselves, for Naugty Dog to become industry-revolutionary at any cost. It's impossible that most of the players enjoyed this game.,Is the result of a Neil Druckmann drunk with success from the masterpiece he created 7 years ago. His ego now out of any prudence that contained it, and allowed him to make a game with his audience in mind. His glory became more important than his characters who are mistreated in a cruel, unfair and cheap way to achieve no effect on the player other than depression and hate. A hatred feeling he immediately makes sure of making you feel guilty about. That intention is very obvious to the spectator from the very first moment due to the very obvious, easy and little elaborated narrative resources usted to that end.,Nor did George Martín, whom Neil seems to aspire to compare, dared to go that far with his main characters.,The team will indeed be remembered in videogame history for breaking the fourth wall in an innovative way. But that at the cost of emotionally harming the players, miserably mistreating perfect and beloved characters and destroying a masterpiece out of pure ambition.,I do not think it's dishonest to score so low even when the game is inpeccable in many tecnical aspects, in the same way that in an exam a single critical unacceptable error can invalidate many right answers. This way, my score is solely due to the sensations I experienced playing this game, a depression and disappointment which last even today and that no game ever caused me.
1157) It doesn't feel like last of us, I don't like the story at ail. Ellie is too brave in my opinion which is not real at all. People have too little to no background information. Graphic and music are nice but nothing else. Should be better than this.
1158) The Spongebob game has better plot than this. Tlou 2 is more focused on lgbt and variety than it's damn story, what is gaming industry coming to.
1159) The first game was good, but it was important to us all as it set the heights of what video games could achieve if care, attention and love was put in to a title.,,Sadly, the second installment of this game is more of an impostor, riding in on the coat tails of its predecessor. A politically driven mess of a story that eventually finishes on a completely pointless and flat note.,,Yes, the environment is gorgeous. The character animations are second to none, and the gameplay is as good as the first albeit, not improved in any way.,,Neil Druckmann, you should be ashamed of yourself for this. How can this game receive stellar reviews from critics and such bad ones from users? Shady, under the table deals. That's how.,,I wasted my money on this title, please don't do the same.
1160) A wretched story after waiting 7 years. Screenwriter should be fired urgently
1161) Contrived story where they kill Joel (in the first two hours of the game), ruin Ellie's life while painting her the villian, and try to make the new villian sympathetic while forcing you to play as said villian. Naughty Dog needs to go sit in the corner and think about what they've done.
1162) Had nothing that the original story had, all of the characters feel like they are from a diversity commercial and nothing feels genuine or real, sick of the game industry forcing SJW crap down our throats. the LOU DLC was good enough
1163) If the game would have been a separate, brand new project, that doesn't have any connection with the previous game, I would probably have put 8/10 score. Unfrotunately, this missunderstanding appeared to be a continuation of the great game, that has its own history, favorite characters and community that loves it. For the sake of modern trends, Naughty Dogs has spat in face to its community crossing out all the successes appeared after the first part of game.,,Don't reccomend to play this ****, especially if have played the first part.
1164) In all sincere fairness, the Last of Us Part II has disappointed me beyond belief. I am so glad that a friend lent me his copy to review the game because I have saved myself $60. The game is extremely mired with Neil Druckmann's political beliefs and the WoRsT DiReCtIoN I have yet to see in a videogame.,For starters, the trailers were purposely misleading and that cannot be ignored because they were advertising a game that people did not receive. I was ready for Joel to die, but the terrible way his death was handled is a "spit in the face" to character everyone grew to care for and love in the original game. I mean this literally, as Druckmann created a character that looks just like him and spits on Joel's face after her gets murdered.,This has to be the Worst Writing In The History of Videogames! That is not an exaggeration. Joel gets murdered by this new character that is forced down your throat and you Do NoT care about at all.,Druckmann tries so hard to make you sympathize with what honestly seems like a Transvestic character, but he fails so hard at it, it is despicable and brutally hilarious at the same time.,In the name of RePrEsAnTaTiOn and his association with Anita Sarkeesian (a person who knows nothing about the videogame fanbase), Druckmann decided to pair you with a TranSexual Child that one also fails to sympathize with since his or her or they or whatever that can be called does not get sufficient screen time nor does it have much of a compelling story that most people playing Last of Us can relate to.,I thought that playing Ellie would be the redeeming quality of the game, but even that turns out terrible with the atrocious story plots involving her like the silliest love triangle, if you can even call it that, I've witnessed portrayed in entertainment.,Some levels are expansive, but become overly repetitive and downright boring after performing the same stealth takedown animation 300 times.,I will say this because others may not have the audacity to, but it needs to be said. The Abby 'Transvestic' and Owen sex scene that Sony and Naughty Dog have forced/coerced players to watch is dowrnight Disgusting, it is Gross, and Laughable. The irony is that Sony censored Trish's buttcrack in Devil May Cry 5, but they want you to see manly **** rubbing against another dude. Something is going terribly wrong at Sony Headquarters and Naughty Dog needs to get rid of Druckmann if they want to stay relevant because Last of Us Part II has sent them down the rabbit hole.,It is so crazy that I have to write this about a company and a developer that I admired for so long.,Something changed, and it has changed for the WoRsT!,,Pros: the game has pretty graphics,Mixed: Somewhat-decent gameplay (not much evolution from original),Cons: Worst story ever; Force-fed Druckmann politics; androgynous character faces; worst revenge plot; Joel dies; You play Ellie only half the game; You have to play with a Transvestic character and have a TranSexual child for a partner; Gross uncensored transvestic nudity.,,You get the gist of this review. The Cons outweigh anything remotely positive by 9000.,,Last of Us Part II is the stairway to doom for Sony and Naughty Dog.,,Last of Us Part II turned out more like End of Us Part II.
1165) Next level woke disaster. Pandering and political correctness ruined the perfect formula. Avoid at all cost. Characters are blend and..., well charactless. Story is artificial. Naughty dog should be sued for false advertising and misconception.
1166) I had TLOU: Remastered on PS4, because of what a masterpiece the original game was I was cautious about the sequel.  The new Druckmann led crew at ND clearly has hijacked the game to push a social justice agenda.  This is bad on its own as its essentially a form of propaganda eroding the genuine artistry of the medium.,,The real shame is that they lost the skill in crafting a good plot or telling a compelling story.  This is a very common outcome in propaganda driven "art".  ND delivered a boring, unpleasant experience and ruined one of the greatest gaming IPs.  If only Amy Hennig was still in charge.,,The majority of game is filled up with plot holes. It’s characters, their decisions and therefore the overall story feels extremely forced.  Somewhere in this mess was potential for a great story, but unfortunately it is bogged down by unnecessary side plots and baffling character choices.,,Unfortunately, the graphics are not enough to save this game from itself. There is hardly any improvement in game play (not a noticeable generational leap), the AI sucks and enemies are reused often and most of the game is walking doing nothing. The game play loop just gets straight up boring.,,You are dropped into linear levels with roaming enemies that are very dumb.  Early on in the game you are treated to a wide open area that feels more free roam, but its an illusion that doesn't last long and is not repeated.,,This game killed the first part in a very disrespectful way.  Terrible story, with characters which remind me of some hipster emotional low budget drama movie.,,I really don't get how all those reviewers brought this game up to a 95.  The most overrated game this generation.  The "critic" reviews are either fake or the reviewers are too fearful for their jobs to say how generic the game-play is and how terribly the story and characters are written.  It is like a snuff film disguised as Oscar bait.,,I literally hated playing the game.  A story driven game with a terrible story is terminal.  Given the technical polish of the game it could be argued that the game deserves a higher rating.  However since I hated every second of playing this game, the only way to give it a higher rating is to say that torturing yourself with a game (a device meant for passing free time) is somehow a good thing (if it serves some kind of nebulous artistic or higher purpose).  This is nonsense.,,My rating is accordant to the enjoyment I received from this game; specifically a 0.
1167) I watched my brother play through this and just immediately shrugged it off due to the hate it was getting on the internet. After he completed it I decided to play it myself, having completed it I can say that everyone was right, this is an absolute travesty, I will be honest and say I didn't like the first one either but I enjoyed the story somewhat and thought I should give this a go. The story is terrible, there is an attempt at "revenge is bad" but it just completely misses the target, I would rather them have made a spin off so they can shove these insufferable new characters down our throat but I suppose the only way this game was ever going to succeed was if they added a shock value. Avoid this game at all cost.
1168) The original game The Last of us was a really great game the perfect balance between everything in a game that game  really touched the hearts of many people.They fell them self in game they would do the Same what Joel did to save Ellie that made the game phenomenal. But What Naughty dog did with Last of us Part ll is just horrible they just destroy the whole franchise they get rid of every thing form the first game and just make it a nightmare to play every time I think to play the Joel scene hunts me I that I can't kill that **** which would give me same relief or release the depression for the **** game But the game sucks If it will solo game for Abby it Will be a great game but including the last of us character they us destroy the game the false advertising and marketing stuff made us thinking the game would be great but it was miss leading I really hope naughty dog understand their mistake stop doing the practice.I really hope they not launch the Part 3 because their nothing left for it.,They should really give an option in the end so we can kill abby.To satisfy yourself.But the mess up .,Really hate the game don't buy if you want to stay away from depression that this game bring to me.
1169) The looting in this game is stressful as **** Doing it in the first game just required you to be reasonably observant... in this game you have to run in circles all over the place watching really slow 'draw and cupboard opening' animations. The enemy AI is so aggressive that you are basically forced to just kill everything in the area straight away and then loot a ghost-town for 20 minutes. Stressful and the story sucks. I felt like the soul of the game died at the same time as.... you know who.
1170) It's hard to process, but it's a cruel world afterall, I applaud it for making the effort, and love it desoite its imperfection.
1171) Poor story, trying too hard to separated it from the last of us 1, telling a cheap revenge story and ended up horrible in so many ways. Too much pushed political correct elements in game which makes people disgusted. Neil Druckmen is the one who is responsible for this mess! It is a shame that others people on the team worked so hard to deliver such good gameplay and visuals.
1172) The most I can give this game is a 4/10. The gameplay and graphics are phenomenal, possibly one of the best of all time (in my opinion), but the story in this game is very lacking and is what makes this game so unfavorable. A story game such as Telltales: The Walking Dead without a good story is like playing an FPS game without the actual "shooter" aspect. In my opinion, it would have been better if there just wasn't a part 2 at all. The main reason people love The Last Of Us so much is because of the relationship between Joel and Ellie. When everyone saw the trailers to The Last Of Us 2 we expected to be going on another journey with Joel and Ellie. Instead the game was ruined by killing Joel in the worst way possible by some new character named Abby and expected us to feel sympathy for her. Not to mention the game wants us to play as Abby for more than half of the game.,There are other problems with the game such as false marketing lies such as replacing Joel's character model in-game with Jesse's character model to trick us to think we would be playing with Joel in-game. There is also a problem such as the altering of Joel's character. Joel has 20 years of survival experience and that's what kept him alive. Then suddenly he just walks into a locked room with 10+ armed people he doesn't know and gets beat to death. Conclusion, the game to me was a disappointment and waiting 7 years for this was not worth it.,,(now hopefully I'm not going to get dislike botted by people working for naughty dog or game journos.)
1173) An incredibly bad part 2 which has nothing to do with the sexuality of characters etc. but just the storytelling in itself. Simply disappointing after a 7 year wait. It makes me angry that I was looking forward to it :(
1174) There is a 75 character minimum in order to say that this is the worst story i have ever heard.
1175) Its just bad man, its just bad.,The graphic,sound effects and character voices are very good.,But everything else is just garbage and and just mockery with the fans.
1176) The most disappointing game ever. I don't know why some reviewers gave more than 5 score.
1177) This game is disappointing tbh. The gameplay and graphics are good but the story sucked. Not well written and badly executed. How can you feel sorry for someone that killed your dad like wth? TLOU2 is not even TLOU without Joel. What made THLOU good was Joel and the story. I want my money back
1178) Sold my PS4 straight away after waiting for years on this game. Terrible game
1179) I get it. Revenge is bad and blah blah blah.,,Nobody wants to hear about your elitism nonsense, Nick.,This franchise is ruined and after only 2 hours of playing. OMG,I know they wanna play GOD, but they don't have a right to disrespect someone's feelings like that.,It's a game!! Man. Game should be fun, not disgusting.,I guess wishing to see more journey of Joel & Elle was too much to ask. RIP Joel.
1180) TLOU2  why? what is this? Is this story? TLOU1 better than TLOU2. I hate sory mode
1181) Very bad story. There is no logic to what the characters do. Fairy Tale for Little Kids.
1182) Abby worst character in the history of gaming. You take last of us 1, one of the best games ever and ruin it like this. This is like someone giving you a cute kitten as a gift and then shooting it dead with a shotgun. Cmon
1183) Terrible game with no story line to it at all. its like someone has a story board and just threw ideas at it. way to ruin a good game
1184) I was so excited for this game to come out.  Turns out the game is just not very good.  ND bought all those critic reviews cause in my opinion there is no way this gets a good score.   It does have good graphics, but the story is just awful.  My 5 year old boy could come up with something better.
1185) Extremely weak writing and directing, overall pointless and meaningless storytelling and conclusion.
1186) Lazy writing, 1 Dimensional characters, predictable, plot wholes, just full out boring, it’s not a horrible game no. go decide for yourself what you think, it’s just hard to believe this is the same team that created the last of us & left behind dlc,What’s w Joel & Tommy trusting randoms, far cry from them in the first game, plot whole!,Helga(abs) mini hulk beating zombies up w her fist is cool but that’s about it she’s very dull just like the rest of the characters.
1187) The grahics look good but the story is really bad especially the end. We wanted to play more with Joel.
1188) (SPOILER) Absolute trash game dragged out story ellie loses everything and most heart breaking bit ellie loses her fingers and cant play guitar given by joel
1189) Ah yes TLOU 2 Review here we go.,tldr version w/ everything you need to know,,The Good,,Incredible Visuals,Good Performance,Polished gameplay mechanics,Wide variety of customization,High level of detail in-game and in optioning,Good Script writing,,The Bad,,The core loop of Stealth-Loot-Shoot has not evolved,Not highly appealing or engaging than the first game,Minor to no changes in exploration, traversal, and environmental puzzles,Tired and Outdated gameplay,Messy story
1190) This game is terrible! The story is awful and the characters you play are NOT enjoyable unlike the first game. Naughty Dog should be ashamed of themselves for releasing a sequel like this. They took a great game and flushed it down the toilet.
1191) The Last of Us is all about the story. It is made to let it feel cinematic. Part II doesn't disappoint in that regard. The story really feels like a poor made low budget B-movie. Doktor Uckmann unfortunately puts a lot of ethical propaganda elements in "his" game that doesn't make sense and add nothing to story.  Story 3/10. Gameplay 7/10. Graphics 8/10. Overall 0. Big disappointment.
1192) The game is a **** joke. I am not even a fan of TLOU but I still can feel how angry they are.,I have played and finished the game, and here are my questions below. If the xxxx xxxx writer can give me some of these answers I will change my rate.,,Why xxxx Joel confirm his name to someone he never know and believe? (I know Tommy said their name to WLF, but Joel confirmed it when Abby asked.) How stupid Joel is!,,Why xxxx Abby free Ellie but killed her friends especially Jesse?,,Why  xxxx Abby betrayed her friends and whole organization?,,Why xxxx Abby can forgive Ellie and fight for the kids in opposite org but killed Joel?,,Why xxxx Ellie can forgive Abby in the middle of a death of life dogfight?,,Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx,,Also don’t doubt me if I’m robot. I have barely used this account for review and rate. But this xxxx xxxxx pissed me off so much! I can not hold back without any words.,,Xxxxxxx
1193) Hands down the WORST game of the year. Graphics was good but thats to be expected, everything else was trash. What were you thinking nauty dog? Im rethinking ever buying from nauty dog again.,I watched a full playthrough on YouTube so THANK GOD i didnt waist any money on this.,First of all (sorry for the language) but **** ABBY!!! and screw you for killing Joel. 7 years ive waited to see the outcome of the first game. Now i dont even consider this fanfiction.,Utter dissapointment. Im not only sad about this game. Im pissed!!!
1194) Calling this game a Masterpiece or even the "Best Game of ALL TIME", is completely ridiculous.,It's not even in the Top 10 of 2020 imo.,Bad story, unlikeable characters and mediocre gameplay (for a AAA game that's been released in 2020),Good graphics alone, don't save this garbage, but i guess i must be a sexist, homophobic, alt-right racist, or just a russian bot to have such an opinion.,Dear shill media ! ...hope you enjoy your woke lil game.
1195) game hace terrible history, the plot is just bad the characters deveolpment is almost non existent
1196) The Last Jedi, all over again! When a game developer doesn’t want to create quality content just to make sure that check boxes are ticked. Subverting expectations! I wonder if they had a story idea? Probably not. It is horrifying to see that they desecrate bellowed characters like Joel. Like Luke Skywalker, he did not get a worthy story or ending. Just wasted and trashed. It is a sad day for gamers, we deserve better. I hope Naughty Dog goes bankrupt and they never do any other game ever again!
1197) Congrats to SWJ you ruined this game!,I will never buy a sequel to this game! Don't waste your money!
1198) This is by far the worst game naughty dog ever produced. The most disappointing game of the year. It took them 6 years to produce this disappointment.
1199) Although graphics and gameplay are good but still I would say this is, 'Lawda ka game'
1200) While the technical aspect of the game is outstanding i feel all this excellent work of developers was wasted on this abomination that is narration and story. This is pure turpism, art of uglyness which purpose is to shock you but not in a good way. The game is a vessel for woke agenda, its a deconstruction without giving you anything good in return and you must feel sorry for not liking it. Its disgusting, i feel deeply violated by this game.
1201) The Last of Us was built on a strong story, very well told, with a sensational script, which made a deep connection between the player and the characters. At The Last of Us 2 there is simply no logic in the events, it seems that there is no script, and they simply ended the narrative to defend a political / social agenda. As a fan it hurts me to say that, but they ended up with The Last of Us.
1202) The game looks good, but, the story is just awful. It throws character development out completely. It flips off fans of the first game. A sad way to see a franchise go.
1203) It's terrible.,,Let's kill off one of the most beloved main characters from The Last of Us and spend the entire game trying to avenge their death, only to not be able to when the time finally comes.,,It makes you play as the one who killed said character from The Last of Us for five out of the eleven chapters.,,It's a big **** you" to The Last of Us fans.,,I would have at least liked to see some sort of vengeance, but it just leaves this bad aftertaste in your mouth.,,It ruins relationships that were built throughout The Last of Us.,,It shoves LGBTQ+ down your throat, and if you don't like it? You're the problem. You're transphobic, etc.,,I told myself that I would Platinum this game when it comes out. Now? I don't even want to touch it ever again.,,I had some hope that there would be a "happy" ending, but we couldn't even get that.,,If you're a fan of The Last of Us, don't play this game.,,If you're new to The Last of Us, don't play this game.,,If there's one good thing to be said about The Last of Us Part II, it would be how astounding the graphics are, but that alone can't save this game.
1204) Shame on you. This game is truly wrong and the garbage of the year!! It did not make me understand the connection with previous one and there is no point keeping title, “the last of us”. Big disappointment and I’m done with this game!
1205) I waited so long for great story and great adventure and my expectations were very high after uncharted 4 and they gave my this.... i dont know if i trust them again
1206) 0 for the way that how this game let Joel got killed. 0 for the way that how this game let Abby go away.
1207) This sequel is not made for the fans of The Last of Us.,I was waiting for this game for more than 5 years and unfortunately it's disappointing.,They distroyed everything they build in part one.,It's a shame.
1208) The Las of Us is all about story and the deep characters similar as the all of naughty dog games. Unfortunately, poor writing and bad characters ruined this game. A huge potential was wasted for a man's delusional behaviours. Thanks to all the people who developed gameplay, animations and environment, they are perfect. Yet, story (the most significant part of this game) is worse than game of thrones s8.
1209) Plot 0/10,Gameplay 0/10,Changed Ellle not good,This is not what waited for 7 years,This is a trash game pushing rotten ideals!
1210) Wow way to go naughtydog you fooled us with the false advertisement this game sadly was the first game i ever preordered and it’s a lesson well learned  never doing that **** again.,i could accept what happened at the start of the game if it was well written and planned but no you said **** it and went for shock value. this game lacked everything that made the first one good.,The gameplay was very good but repetitive even the things that should catch you off guard happened a bunch of times, to the point of me anticipating them.,The graphics are amazing. The sound is phenomenal. The storyline and character development are trash.,don’t buy it if you’re here for the story, it will soil the memory of the first one.
1211) This the worst game I’ve ever played. The story is horrible and even lets me felt uncomfortable during the playing process.
1212) Very good graphics, animations. All the technical part of the game is wonderful.,But it's a single player game, the story makes the game not the graphics. Stupid things happened at the start, half of the game u play as someone nobody cares, worst ending ever.
1213) Full of trash, they always ruined 2nd parts now with all this hype of force character to make it lesbians, gays, and all of the progressiveness of today's sad world.
1214) **** how could you ruin a game that was technically almost perfect? A pathetic story, ugly woman-hulks, and I wanted to buy a playstation because of it. Shame on you Naughty Dog
1215) This is not a game. It is a mental attack weapon. I really want this to be the "last".
1216) it looks nice I'll give it that but that's all I'll give it gameplay feels copy and paste from 2013 and story is bad,,get Spongebob rehydrated instead you won't regret it
1217) The gameplay is fine, but I bought this game almost exclusively for the story. Knowing it was going to have the characters I grew to love made me buy this game day 1. After playing through it, I wish I never bought it. There is such a push to make you feel ways you don't think are reasonable, too many pot holes to overlook, garbage character development and many more issues. I simply cannot recommend this to anyone.
1218) Neil Druckmann says on hıs video on ND youtube channel he was cryıng ın the end of hıs playtrough now ı can see why
1219) This game just destroys everything the fans loved about the first part. Just don't play it.
1220) Terrible story killed my favorite post apocalyptic Herro and forced a political agenda DO NOT BUY THIS you have been warned
1221) Horrible story and and end. Thank you very much for ruining it. We have been waiting for this game all theses years, then that what we get!
1222) Joel’s death is not the problem, everyone knew that was something’s about to happen, but no one was expecting Naughty dog was really going to make him look like an idiot. It doesnt make sense at all considerating him a clever and sceptical man in Part I. It was like “hey my name is joel and he’s Tommy, we live over there and my password is 1234”... really dissapointed... They could’ve written a better way to kill Joel using THE SAME shocking scene, but come on, just remember he even tried to killed ellie at part1 when he saw her arm and Tess pressed him to trust in that little girl... that joel was not the real one everyone played with...
1223) Pls don't buy it now. You can play it once and you can see how poor it was made. But don't pay the full price for a bad written fan Story.
1224) The protagonist (I don't want to say her name) plot armor is so f****ing ridiculous.,The ending make no sense. Revenge is bad? lol classic. I really hate this kind of story. Make no sense.,,idk why there's people who still defending this game... do you even have a brain??? or maybe they give you money to give a good review??? I see a lot of fake positive reviews.
1225) I think this was supposed to be the game of this generation but it’s mildly a gameplay improvement compared to the first game and a story disaster. The SJW elements actually make the story boring to the long term fans even though it’s not the main issue imo. The story is weak a priori with little character development and backbone. The gameplay is the main issue nevertheless. The game is barely more fun than the first game with 2 major problems: 1) long boring walks that can’t be fixed after the first playthrough, 2) the game forces you in boring explorations as key objects are hidden in large optional area. The latter reduces the fun and makes it possible to skip significant things that if missed create frustration. In the end, the first game remains superior both story wise, character development and gameplay and the second is definitely not the game of this generation. With these budgets you expect the directors to be brilliant and life touching but I guess Kojima is the only man right now who is able to do it. Suggestion: lower the budgets as you are not able to have decent triple A and focus on gameplay rather than story as you are very weak on the latter.
1226) Good gameplay, graphics and music but all that are nothing if the game dont have good story
1227) The superman 64 of this generation. Absolute garbage. Women are better then men. All men must die and are morons.
1228) This review will have spoilers but before i get to that - Save your time, money and energy and don't buy this game, I usually dont write reviews but this game was so bad i just had to. Dont let it soil the love and appreciation you've built up for characters in the first game. All the 10/10 and 5 star reviews and articles popping up are quite frankly fake, paid reviews by people who think they're above everyone else in "their artistic genius".  After finishing the game I'm left with a really bad taste in my mouth. Its rare for me to honestly rate any game a zero because I always try to find the merit in games even if they have flaws. But this game has almost no good points, its merits are few and far between and whatever genuinely good parts present are ruined by the rest of the game.  Im left wondering, after seven years of waiting THATS what we get?!,In a post-apocalyptic world where the possibilities for a game are endless THATS the best they could come up with?,It felt like a cruel slap in the face. Like raising a child for years (in this case the first instalment) and then having said child brutally gutted in front of you (second instalment- the last of us part 2),It honestly felt like the infected weren't even a part of the game anymore and were just kind of an obstacle.,I just cannot seem to grasp just how idiotic the story is They've taken the surgeon who was supposed to develop a vaccine from Ellie in the first game, a seemingly unimportant almost insignificant character just taped to the end of the first game. And they've made him a basis for revenge for the entire sequel? Seriously? An entire well filled with fantastic ideas and you choose the worst possible one? I hope your directing career is over Neil.  In what world is this game alright?!,Its very obvious that the team working on this game frantically tried to clean up druckmans story mess with clean visuals and solid gameplay but druckmans idiocy rooted within the game prevails at making it a misery to play.,Its horrible beyond belief, through and through. Killing off one of the most favourable characters of the franchise in literally the first 2 hours of the game in the worst way possible was the first indication to how terrible the rest of the game was going to be. There was no real purpose to it. Backtracking to the first game, Joel's daughter was also killed in the beginning and it was gut-renching and there was real emotion I feel like they were going for the same thing in the last of us 2 albiet very unsuccessfully,In the first game Ellie and joels relationship grows into a father daughter type relationship to fill the void joels daughter left,In the last of us 2, they attempt to patch it up with dina and tommy unsuccessfully This is a perfect point to state that the games heavy emphasis on the gay agenda also serves no purpose other than to gain the support of the gay community. It's horrifying what they've done in game. Jesse gets Dina pregnant, kill off Jesse so Dina and Ellie can have a family. The message here is that men are only good for breeding?,Another disastrous point is that the game tries to humanise Joels killer, it tries to justify her actions by having you play as her for half of the game, 12 HOURS. Honestly, that part was just torture, playing as a character you despise while the producers desperately try and paint her in a positive ligh.,And then forcing us, playing as a character we hate to fight a character we love? That's cruelty I honestly let tommy kill me (playing as abby) like a hundred times before i felt satisfied moving on I also let Ellie do the same Why? Why did neil try so hard to make Ellie the bad guy? Why did he try so hard to make joel the bad guy? Why did they introduce Abby into the franchise? Theres no reason to any of what this game contains In the end the game had a chance to redeem itself and at least score a 1 or 2 out of 10 by killing Abby, the character that everyone despises and no... of course, you couldn't grant me that luxury could you Neil. You had to let Abby escape, had to leave Ellie with PTSD, no family, no friends, no father figures, no fingers, no revenge. Nothing. You had to rip out everything, throw it on the floor, spit on it and make your fans lick up the garbage you created. You honestly had one job and failed, flailing miserably might i add,I wish i had never played this game, i wish i had left it at the first instalment without a sequel Thanks for nothing you piece of ****
1229) Impossible to play. The whole game is saturated with this propaganda, but it is very beautiful, but I am one of those people who do not care about graphics. For me, the plot is important, the study of characters, but the graphics in my opinion are in last place. I expected more from the game, and the developers just spat in the soul of the players.
1230) terribly written mess ,the only good thing about the game is graphics the ending is so bad it's not even funny.
1231) I am not giving this game a 0 because everything about the game is bad, but because the decisions this company made for this game are absolutely disgusting and unacceptable.,,The Last of Us 1 was practically a perfect game; beautiful graphics, captivating gameplay, flawed yet lovable and relatable characters, and many small moments that just made you fall in love with the game over and over again.,,The Last of Us 2 has taken everything that made their first game so lovable, and quite literally killed it with a golf club.,,The story and development is thrown out the window and replaced with an inconsistent and unlikeable SJW wet dream filled with depression. In a failed attempt to be inclusive and preach a positive message, the game instead perpetuates the very same racist and sexist themes it is trying to demonize.,,You cannot say that your game is “inclusive” and “promotes equality” when the most “privileged” characters become the most likely to die at any given moment despite their relevance to the plot while the “least privileged” are given insane levels of plot armour and are not seen as “evil” or “flawed” no matter what they do.,,This game absolutely fails at telling a likeable or relatable story that has a valid purpose or message; which is the main purpose of most single-player games such as this in the first place...
1232) Borderline cringey dialogue, boring characters, and really bad story writing. No wonder ND lose most of its staff because of this agenda pushing game. People will try to push that players who dont like this game 'hate women' when we have grown up on female lead characters.. or that we hate gay people. when nobody had an issue with the left behind DLC. If Dina was replaced with a guy it would still be really hard to watch. i would give this a 3-4 because of the graphics/sound/gameplay but considering this game is severely politicised instead of conveying a great story like the first. It gets a 0
1233) Why do users need to be mentally stressed while playing games?,Will it make sense for me to be stressed in the game I paid for?,If a story writer says political correctness through a famous game, should all users who play the game have to approve it?
1234) It does not deserve the name after so many years of waiting, plot and ridiculous and ireal protagonists. Enough of forcing with these types of protagonists.,The game is repetitive and only the graphics are saved.
1235) i created an account just to give this game a 0 i absolutely hated it joel deserved way better the first last of us is my all time fav game but this is a complete abomination
1236) Game play -10/10,graphics/atmosphere/environment- 10/10.,The Story-  A complete mess.
1237) hey could’ve approached the story different in so many ways.,Show us how Joel and Tommy survived let us see how the world of TLOU developed over the years.,Show us how Joel became the man he was then I mean in the first TLOU because in part 2 he is out of character.,They killed Joel like its nothing and then we play as abby and force us to LIKE/UNDERSTAND her. Damn I even had to fight against Ellie. I died on purpose many times. Its just frustrating.,I returned my game and got a voucher back. I’m waiting for Ghost of Tsushima.
1238) i am disgusted by the game, the creator of the game and metacritic. Deleting bad reviews cause you dont like it, creating fake good reviews, metacritic and the creators of the game violated a law. The game became a propaganda, another game to brainwash people into thinking certain things. When people start attacking science, comedy, videogames, entertainment, music, even food, everything that supposed to be for the people not against them, to hate themselfs, cause its "not the right way" of thinking in some sjw opinion, who doesnt know **** they have God complex over others. People like this will make the world worst, weak, mentaly ill people. Every empire falls and its starts with people like this.
1239) Neil druckmann... Seriously you made a game about torturing Joel and Ellie... this family, in A VERY disgraceful way... If you really think this is a great way to end the TLOU series, well yes you literally Ended the game. Congratulations for that!
1240) Disappointment of the year... So bad plot, and trying to make villains heroes of the first part, oh, that's totally bad.,Neil Druckman cameo, lol, was hilarious, as brutally ugly monster abby. In trailers she is miss universe compared to her in game.
1241) Poor ND devs who wasted to much talent on a story like this...,I tried to avoid spoilers to not get spoiled but now really regret it...shouldbn't have bought this game.,,Also, the more I learn about the leaks and how Sony and ND reacted, the more I dislike them now....Guess I won't buy a ND on release day again...and I won't trust any of the magazines and big reviewers again.,,I feel cheated for my money by strange trailers which show scenes that are not in the game and I feel cheated to have to play with a character which is not shown before (guess they knew why).,So for me it's basically a 0 because I won't finish the game...will try to find someone unknowing to get my copy off my collection.
1242) Just a Dumpster Fire. Transgender Character that murders their own mother..who was a bigot..so Brave.,Story is a complete farce, and one of the main characters has Roided out man arms, she is a horrible character, that is not likable in the least.,And what they did to Joel....destroying that character on and off screen.
1243) Damn politics,Scam trailer,Waited for many years and thought it was a good work,It turned out to be a bad work,Never trust this company again,I was so excited after reading the trailer,Actually played it very heartache
1244) Neil Druckmann should be fired from Naughty Dog and apologize publicly. i'm not buying another game from Naughty Dog.
1245) This game was absolute garbage. The damage done to the characters that I love is irreparable. From Joel being brutally beaten to death to Tommy being left blind, paralyzed and alone, to being forced to play as Joel's killer for hours on end in a horrific attempt to make us empathize with his murderer, this whole game is a dumpster fire thats only purpose in existing is to sacrifice what we love on it to the woke gods. As far as I'm concerned there never was a Last of Us 2.
1246) Absolute garbage. They broke the characters from a game thet was amazing and made them into something that just is not the last of us 2. Its crap.
1247) The worst storytelling ever! Completely destroyed the first one. I’m gonna pretend this game doesn’t even exist.
1248) Completely threw away the hype of the story with garbage story changes and writing. Also forced us to play “Abby”, an annoying and frustrating character, for half of the game in order to try and sympathize with them. Political presence needs to stay out of video games.
1249) This game is 90% story and i hate the story. Game play was decent but after 11hours I felt exhausted
1250) Here is my honest review,,Naughty dog and specially Neil druckman ruined such a series and the people who are syaing that game is good go please check a psychiatric first as they need serious attention. most of us can't call a game bad because it tarnishes the value of a brand,,reasons are as follows that this game is awful,1) forced to play with abby,2) joel deaths is like a side character,3) killer is forgiven in the end if it is not for revenge then why took game so long add a system like farcry if you want to end it now or want to go through everything,4) just hate how a political agenda inserted into a game,5) most hated character abby and turning of ellie into villian in the half gameplay,6)story looks like was stretched out without a purpose that was needed to be fulfilled,7) completely shatters the foundation of the first game...,8) they shattered every love for the game,9) Bribed gaming websites to give fake reviews,,for a person who played first  game will feel Disappointed as this game is just a no buy if i could i would give ratings in minus whereas most people are saying it was like Red dead redemption 2 let me tell you one thing arthurs sacrifice was respectable as in terms of joel they made him look like a side character
1251) the best golf simulator 2020,i am very sad,I really love the first part, but what I see in this game really saddens me,artists and animators did a great job ... sorry for that
1252) Welcome to the future. Welcome to watching propper father figures as something that should be tortured and killed (Patriarchy is bad). The graphics, and the facial animations a very good, but used in this pathetic excuse for a videogame, is just sad.
1253) OH GOD WHY? PLEASE TELL ME THIS IS JUST SOME KIND OF A SICK JOKE! do not buy this game, and pretend it never happen if you can. The last of us II has the potential to be the masterpiece, but it chooses to please a certain "community" instead and end up creating an embarrassment that probably haunts the studio in a very very long time. Don't mind the Critic Review, they just too scared to give this game a true score that it deserve which is -100.
1254) The story is extremely poor compared to the first part. It would make more sense if Ellie and Abby would turn out to be sisters. -if of course they could find a way to connect the dr. as their father which was killed by Joel-  but it would be justifiable for why Ellie just couldn't kill Abby at the end. But instead we get a sequel that makes no sense other than annoy it's fans story-wise and completely ignore customer expectations. You build a single game to sell, but if you build a universe and want it to be consistent you should be listening to your customer-base and not bash them with extremely irrational and childish responses on social media or try to cut them off to react the way they want with their opinions.
1255) It's a game for prizes, not a game for players. Shame on Naughty Dog. The Emperor's New Clothes.,PLEASE DO YOUR MONEY AND TIME A FAVOR!
1256) Super linear story telling with no massive improvement in terms of gameplay which is repetitive set of ambush created in different scenarios. Poorly written story. Character development is not there at all even for new characters.
1257) Very happy playing it but then It just turned completely boring when you have to play as Abby
1258) Garbage and poorly designed story filled with senseless and stupid acts and scenes trying to justify why the game its this way.
1259) The Last Of Us Part 2 is the equivalents of a flaming bag of dog s#@t outside on your neighbors front porch. The characters are awful, the story is awful, everything about the game is awful and an unorganized mess. 75% of the game you are looting a building, riding a horse, and following someone. The other 25% of the game are the actual fun bits where you are fighting people or infected, but you are constantly skipping through those parts by stealthing your way through the areas to get to the exit. Plus on top of all that, the ending extremely bad. The only good part about the game are the graphics. In conclusion, the game is extremely bad and you should not waste your money on it, and it is definitely not a "metacritic must play".
1260) Lou2 deserves Golf of the year.,Thanks for touching messages.,Arrogant, deception, disrespect, obstinacy,STOP MAKING YOUR FANS SEXIST AND RACIST
1261) The story is awful.  Characters are inconsistent with the previous game.  The new characters are insufferable and are most of the gameplay.
1262) all that wait only for the apollo scene; which is a flashback to tlou1. this game is a disgrace towards the entire gaming community. i finished the game %100 so i am entitled to write a review because paid boot lickers thinks so. can't shield homophobia for too long with paid critics and bot 10/10 givers.
1263) Holy god the story was so god awful I waited 7 years for this. I wanted to quit so many times though out the Abby line. Completely devoid of an interesting or satisfying plot. The graphics where okay and the gameplay was the same as always which does get old. Solid use of destroying all character development from the previous game and forgetting to develop characters in this one. I do not suggest buying this game if not only for the graphics
1264) good looking fame with allright gameplay. It might have been hard following in the footsteps of part 1. But simmilarily to the first game fake/ badly written drama, literally no story besides that. Why can these games never build on actually good writing and instead take the drama way.
1265) The last of us 2 is definitely my most "unexpectable" "masterpiece" created by ND,,Everything is perfect.,Except for gameplay.
1266) Bad writing, the game makes no sense, and its boring af, mostly the second part. The 10 rated reviews have no good arguments to back the game up
1267) Well the Graphics are all good and at some places the details are really nice but that was it.,,-Gameplay is really weak, you don´t have fun moments or thrilling moments gameplay wise. The Gameplay is more a chore you have to do to progress the story. There is not a thing in it that a other game already did better, so if you play games like these you will not be surprised.,,-Atmosphere gets hit really big. A problem naugthy dog always had but in game are very unrealistic scenarios that kills the game for me. Like in uncharted were the ground beneath you just did crumble too often, or young Nathan gets suddenly chased by 20+ agents and makes out of it. Here are the same problems with clickers and how stupid the characters behave(so you can have a dramatic story).,,-The story, well not everyone is a troll hat spends the whole day online. Some people read great stories in books and game from time to time. To say it simple if it would be a book I would throw it away after reading. This is not a good story, it has an over focus on drama. These people probably think a good story comes out of how painful it is for the characters in it, like some artist that thinks true Art comes from painting an Image mostly black. But overall structure, deepness, play between the different strings the story sets out gets ignored. So this game is. The story wants to show you a big drama by not good structured means and comes with very forced acts. Probably the writers did loose themselves in their personal vision. A story does not need a happy ending to be good, but these story delivers just an emptiness no deeper message you could also have shown in a Call of duty, probably the message you get is that everything is bad.
1268) The game's script is simple compared to 1, I really expected more from the naught dog, I think it's a sad moment for everyone who liked 1
1269) Everything is 10/10...,Except the story... Unfortunately the most important on this game was the story...
1270) Such a terrible story.I do not believe that this is the second part of the best game. New characters are not so interesting than old. Too much SJW elements, in my humble opinion. Good gameplay, but it does not save...
1271) No negative reviews from the critics too scared to write about it's flaws and get paid to give it a good rating and then keep their mouth shut. This game is not a 10/10 more like a 5 or 6 out of 10 at best. The story goes in weird directions just to cater to some agenda like everyone else has been saying. I guess if you have enough influence and the ability to make any developer/producer look negatively through the media if they are not open to marginalized groups of people then you can do anything. Thanks for forcing some kind of strong women/Trans friendly story though a franchise that they knew would sell a lot even if there agenda was injected in the game. Can't make one from scratch huh? Imagine if the leaks didn't come out how much worse this would of been.  This story sacrifices the main story between Joel and Ellie for the sake of someone named Abby who no  one wanted or cared to see. You have betrayed your fans for the sake of A.S. and her agenda to force her narrative into already established franchises. What game is next? You going to try to replace God of War with someone else now? Metal Gear? Who else is on the chopping block?  All in all, the graphics and gameplay is great but the story is total trash dumpster fire and is all over the place. Don't expect to get what you want out of last of us 2 unless you wanted some girl to take over the story. The "girl takeover story" agenda is real. As for me, 0/10 for a game that wasn't meant for fans but meant to please a certain group of people. Guess you guys have invade a franchise and change it for it sell  this ideology huh lol. What a joke.
1272) Joel dies and you have to play as his killer terrible choices worst part is you can’t kill Abby
1273) I encountered a game breaking glitch after 16 hours and cannot finish the game. The glitch is simply a missing prompt to climb down a rope, no prompt appears so I cannot continue the game. I have tried a the tricks to get past it, even played from a previous save that was 3 hours behind. If you were already on the fence about getting this game absolutely do not buy it, you may end up like me with a broken game and out $60.
1274) Yesterday, we finally completed the passage, perhaps, of the long-suffering game "One of Us 2" or "Last of Us 2". [Attention!  In this article, there are absolutely no serious spoilers for the plot and gameplay, except for the reservation of several battles without personalities, so you will not recognize the final game because of it.  Thank. I don’t promise, but I’ll still release a video opinion on the game, but if you don’t take into account the great details and spoilers, then, here’s an almost wicked opinion on the game: Plot?  Nuuu ... here everything is rather bad than good.  We have a couple of hours of prologue for Ellie and an antagonist of the game, and after that we start a full gameplay for Ellie.  Next, we play 3 game days and get a cut-scene with a seemingly denouement and .... end?  Not!  We play again these 3 full days, but on behalf of that same antagonist.  After which we come to the same cut-scene, see the denouement ... and the end?  Well, again by
1275) Ya know I never really had high expectations for the game but to see what they've done to a belovoved franchise of mine kind of hurts man honestly there was no need to even release a second game smh.
1276) Neil Druckmann asked for our trust, so we gave it to him and he did us dirty.
1277) An embarrassing sequel to my favorite single-player game of all time. A game that puts politics before anything else doesn't deserve to see the light of day. I don't consider this game canon.
1278) This is a story-driven game, thus relying heavily on it's story. Gameplay and graphics are a minor point compared to this.,,The story of The Last Of Us clearly went downwards since the first installment. Every credible source will tell you this fact as well. Personally I think this is connected to the fact that ND crunched a lot of employees in the making of this game. Eventually they didn't know what to, since all the competent people left the company, so they decided to make this.,,After playing the game, I could probably tell you the names of about 3 characters, the ones from the first game not included. These people are the same throughout the game. There is no character development. I think the game does try to make you care about it's characters and there troubles, but I haven't met a credible source that say they do care about the characters. Neither do I. It is clear that the writers of this game are not the same as the last game, to say the least. Futhermore, after viewing the trailers for this game you wouldn't think this is the direction it would you. Plenty of people feel baited into buying this game. Luckily I have managed to refund it.,,The gameplay is solid, however it is a copy and paste of the first installment.,,The graphics are not bad, but that is what you expect from a game that has been in development for 7-8 years.,,All in all I give this game a 0/10, for it did not deliver.
1279) Incredibly disappointed. Story was horrible. Was really hoping for something better. Wish I would have rented the game instead of buying it.
1280) Last of Us Part 2 is the worst video game sequel I’ve ever played. The writing shows so little respect for the player’s intelligence, the gameplay does little to improve from the first game, and the events which transpire are so forced that it becomes laughable. I encourage everyone not to buy this game. The original is worth your time and money, but this one can burn in Hell where it belongs.
1281) great game ruined by a bad story, the writer should be fired. You can't kill Joe but doesn't give us a way to get the anger off chest.
1282) I was excited about this game. I am disappointed to see that it is so political. Ellie and joel may have changed in the 5 years since the last of us but these characters feel like they were stripped of their old characters and just made into 2d characters. The scenery is beautiful at times but that doesnt make up for the revenge plot. Just feels like someone wrote this entire script in a week. This is a story based game and without they story you have nothing. I also find it sad that these websites are taking down honest reviews and replacing them with 10/10 paid off reviews. Naughty dog messed up on this. Listen to your viewers and make a better game next time.
1283) one of the first games ever made, very bad. not to mention it's a game full of bugs and flaws
1284) Wow, what a waste of 70 bucks. I don't mind the story at all, but the horrendous linear gameplay and combat feels like a game from maybe 10 years ago? I forced myself to play ~10 hours cos I payed big money for this. Graphics are absolutely stunning, so there is still that...,Biggest gaming related disappointment of my life.
1285) I hated it. Joel seriously gets beaten to death immediately for doing some dumb crap that nobody who played the first game could buy him doing. Like, so far removed from the character's nature that it's just imbecilic. It didn't get any better from there. I loved the first game, I couldn't be more disappointed by this. I'm glad I was able to get my money back, this game sucks.
1286) I hate the story. How can someone says this is a good game? As a game bases on story, who cares about how good the gameplay is.
1287) Bogged down with uninteresting characters, and narratives that lead no where. There was a good game in here somewhere, but its buried along with the Joel & Ellie dynamic we all wanted & bought the game specifically for. No multiplayer despite a 7 year development, and misleading trailers. By the end of it all, everything you experience just feels pointless. Like a waste of time, and a missed opportunity. Might've been good on its own merits, but to call this a Last of Us game, you carry a certain weight with that name, and the ideas of this revenge tale just don't land. I felt nothing for these characters, and barely even got to know them. A far cry from the well written story of the first game. I feel for anybody that pre-ordered this expecting one thing and being blindsided by the devs need to "subvert player expectations". Combat can be fun and designs are beautiful, but thats not enough to warrant people to play this. Ultimately its a story narrative, and it fails in that regard to being interesting, or even furthering the characterization of these characters.,My low score is reflective of the deceit I felt from the trailers, I never looked at the leaks cause I trusted naughtdog to deliver. What they gave me was half a story, no multiplayer, and death of great & new characters for shock value that neither carries the story or draws you. I hope to god they never make a sequel.  A waste of time, I can not recommended
1288) The plot predictable and bad as hell. The Gameplay is boring and it there is nothing new, like in 2010: you clearing the map than watching cutscene. And I have nothing against LGBT, this fact isn’t annoying. Graphics good. I’m very disappointed.
1289) Waited a long time for this game didn't expect a force fed lesson in gender and political correctness. Theres enough of that in day to day life without you massaging your pc egos.,That coupled with plot choices
1290) Trash story, they just lie with the trailer for people to but it, it is a shame the ruined the saga with a trash 2nd part, it's not worth buying it
1291) The story is trash,Characters have no growth and make stupid decisions.,No one brings up the amount of glitches there are everytime you try to climb a ledge.,The dialogue is so banal,The same animation everytime you stealth kill,The AI was just as bad if not worse from 1st game,When your GF is laughing at how bad a games story is and asks “wtf are you watching” you know its trash.,Literally this games story Could’ve written itself and it ended up being cheesy subreddit thread fan fiction.
1292) Naughty Dog: Ellie has let it go. What a brilliant way to finish the story,Me:  I haven't let go,Naughty Dog: Ellie feels Joel did not want blood on her hand,Me: WTF? But I have been killing nonstop for the last 10 something hours?,Please make the 3rd part Naughty Dog and you will surely have a good taste of bankruptcy
1293) The game is extremely high quality but for a users perspective its very dissapointing,Many critical flaws for the viewers satisfaction,One of the main reasons why its dissapointing was how sony and naughty dog overhyped the game to make people dissapointed easily becauae they have been waiting for seven years
1294) The gameplay is the best, it maintains what is already known in the first part and adds new things such as being able to jump and handle ropes, fighting against the waves whether infected or not, make us stay on the edge of stealth. The story shocked me, like anyone else, but something that people must understand is that this game is not about Joel, but Ellie, and that is made clear to us from the beginning. By putting ourselves in the perspective of "the bad guys" they make us understand that every act of revenge brings us to the same starting point, without knowing who is good or bad. I like to think that the objective of the director of this game was to put an end to this story, because the same thing would always be repeated but with new characters, it is here where it is worth mentioning the phrase "die being a hero or live long enough to become the villain".
1295) Spoiler!!!!,Joel died to early and Ellie should have killed abby! Wtf was that ending. All they trailer were fake with joel they tricked us.... In my opinion the story would be better if it would be like this: Dinna dies in the beginning and in the end joel dies to protect ellie. After that Ellie kills abby!!!! Wtf was that story Ellie kills everyone but then she don't kill abby cause... she saw a Flashback with joel??? I hate Neil druckmann.
1296) Golfing over it with Naughty ****,Now i have PTSD on golfclub, and,this is not an art
1297) Waste of time and money. Worst sequel for a nice original game. Agenda, that shoved up your throat.
1298) I will say two things: first I didn’t like the new characters and It breaks my heart to write this the story is bad
1299) The story of this game sucks and this game is saved by the great graphics, but still has a **** gameplay
1300) Very bad story in this game. I hated playing as Abby. The graphics and gameplay was alright though.
1301) This game has been so so disappointing. From the repetitive gameplay to the complete and utter nonsense of a story (and unlikable characters). This game does not deserve your money or attention. SJW infection has completely ruined this franchise and tainted Naughty Dog as a developer forever. I’m done with their games.
1302) Terrible game. Not only does the story completely ruin the playthrough of the first game but the game mechanics of this one barely add anything new. Can’t rate this game low enough. If you really want to play it just wait a month or so and get a used one for $2 because everyone will be throwing this one out.
1303) Pure identity politics, what a shame... totally unnecessary, this game had everything to be the best of its time.
1304) I am so sick of so-called politically-correctness-like arrangements that the development team imposed into the content. Is it really wrong to prefer a positive continuation instead of a psychological complex game?,,Before we respect all your political correctness values, could you at least respect some basic decency of gamers? Those critics wouldn't speak the truth because their hands are tied--offering negative opinion would possibly result in no income and no further future gaming commentary invitation.,,My honest opinion over this game is--read all other user reviews before you spend your precious hard-earned money!
1305) I can't stress enough how badly the game derailed what was so great about the first one.Bad Story,Poorly written,Poor direction.I felt like I was forced to watch someone kill a character I really looked forward to playing again and couldn't do anything to stop it.My biggest question is why would they do the fans like me,like they did here.As an avid gamer going all the way back to the very first game console that you could only use to play pong on, I have played hundreds of games in my life.I can count on one hand how many times I wanted my money back.This game makes the middle finger of that hand at the fans and then cuts it off
1306) how can you be sure that critics are smarter than the public? of course, in the field where critics work, they know more about knowledge than the public. however, there is a public as smart as the critics in the field, and there are many people who have studied very well in their respective fields, even if they are not related to critics knowledge. i'm getting tired of the current trend. the trend that you think of the public as an subordinate.
1307) i just want to defense the game after all that hate.,,But after finishing the game I feel that I can't defense the game anymore. It ruins my experience with a story full of plot hole
1308) The game has a horrible disappointing story that by the end of it you'll be wishing you never wasted 25 hours of your life, the game forces you to play a horrible written character (forces an SJW feminist agenda) abby for 10 hours and then forces you to watch a sex scene with abby that has a face of a woman but an actual man's body. Naughty dog also let anita sarkeesian run the whole show for the game, which ultimately lead to its demise. As a last of us fan that waited 6 years, this was an utter disappointment and the worst game of 2020. If I was you guys I would wait for a sale or wait till it's free for ps plus before you play it, hell borrow it from one of your poor unfortunate friends who wasted money on it.
1309) Breaks my heart that I waited for years and was so happy to play just to feel like Naughty Dog spat in our faces, ruining the story we loved, and forced themselves to have all these great reviews by profesional gaming media and just pretend like the fans don’t absolutely hate this trash, while they lift themselves up talking about how proud they are of themselves like you didn’t just create the greatest disappointment in gaming history.
1310) You guys ruined everything.,Completely disappointed about the story, feel sorry for every character in this game.,They deserved to have a much better ending, not like this!!!!!,You’ve got 7 years to fix the story, but you didn’t do it!,Don’t treat players like a fool
1311) What a waste of time, Neil Shame on you!!!!! You kill the last of us:////////
1312) realy lazy writing story I have seen in a while, how do you expect me to like this hot piece of ****
1313) I waited 7 years and this is what we got. Last of us 2 tears down everything great about the first game and tells a boring revenge story filled with plot holes and OMG that awful ending. What a slap in the face to any fan of the series.
1314) Dumb decision making, unlikable characters, outdated gameplay, full of plotholes.
1315) The game is stupid SJW crap, the writing was terrible and is basically just mindless propaganda, i hope no children play this game
1316) This game is a complete betrayal to the 1st game. Nice bait and switch with the trailers. Never buying another naughty dog game ever again. Trust the reviews and DO NOT BUY THIS GAME
1317) dissaster. It deserves the negative reviews 100%,After all the waiting it turned out more than a dissapointment,I hope Neil Druckman pays dearly for this abomination
1318) Where to begin? The story makes no sense, especially when continuing the story from the first chapter. The characteres we barely get to know, and when you are trying to introduce us to new characters that become the main characters, i would expect a more backstory if you want me to actually feel for their pain/happiness. This is what made the first chapter so good, the backstory made us become a "part" of Ellie and Joel and why they acted like they did. Their pain made us want them to succeed and get a ending where they are happy.
1319) played the first half of the game and disliked it,graphics are also mediocre
1320) The story was a trash only the gamelay was good and the graphics but the story was really a trash
1321) Neil has proven that without Bruce or Amy to steer the ship, he's a completely incompetent writer.
1322) Leaving aside the technical section, the story is too forced, all in order to make the characters more complex, which in reality only makes them look superficial and artificial, much of the realism that was the best of the first game has been lost.
1323) Just curious HOW MUCH DID ND PAY TO GET 10/10????!,,this game is a complete failure. nothing makes any sense. Abby definitely deserved to be the most hated main character in gaming history. ND literally ruined tlou.
1324) Hi Neil. Thank you for disrespecting everything the 1st game stood for.,Thanks for making me play as a transgender that killed our fav character.,Thanks for making me go on a revenge trip, only to not get revenge,,,Amazing game!
1325) It's a really sad day if you you loved the first game. Do yourself a favor, don't play and forget that there's a part II. This is like a spit in the face of anyone that played and liked the first one =/
1326) This is terrible. The imposition of rules. Absence of choice. Please don't make movies!!! You can't do that. Critics are corrupt, to put such a high score for this piece...
1327) This happen when polítics and actual sexual trends invade a videogame that in the past was made only with love for a good history and quality produc. Good Job destroying last of us and star wars .
1328) perfect game stratgy. understand what neil wants to tell for the story. But, as a fan of TLOUS 1, I will never acceptt the death and last giving up of revenge.
1329) TLOU Part II has a great graphics but awful & disgusting story arc destroys everything. I hate Abby, Ellie's acts, and Joel's death scene incredibly disaster. My rating is 0/10
1330) This game makes zero sense. Since when does Joel trust some random strangers? He always was very cautious to not trust any strangers, and in this game, he just trusts everyone like that?,7 years of waiting for sequel, to get this? They killed Joel of like he does'nt mean anything.,Naughty ****
1331) The plot is just straight up bad. Gameplay is a bit inconsistent bjt decent overall. Considering how good tlou1 is, tlou 2 is a huge letdown.
1332) story totally wasted time , you killed with ellie a lot of people and sacrifice everything and in the final do nothing .
1333) The worst game I have ever played,  I do not know why naughty dog tried to destroy a good game.
1334) Naughty dog betrayed us (this franchise and users),if you buy this game, xxxking story you can enjoy^^ wow
1335) Worst game I've ever played. The gameplay is awful, the story is boring and cliché. tl;dr, really the worst game I've ever played.
1336) I absolutely loved the first game, so there was no question that I was excited for the sequel. I did my best avoid any spoilers. Avoided social media as much as possible, and youtube videos as well. I think I did a fairly good job of avoiding as much info as possible. So now, after weeks of torture, I finally got to play it.,,Oh my. what was this?,First of all, how could you do that to the best part of the first game? Namely, Joel and Ellie. How could ND do that to them. Such utter disrespect.,The main reasons I loved the first game, were simply treated like trash by ND.,And the character that they introduced? What is this?,The only thing I was thinking while playing was, is this some sort of joke?,But no, it was real, and it was what they had intended.,Immediate turn-off number one.,,Now, let me get to the story. Absolutely Horrid. What part one's story had as a story of hope, this utter mess had destroyed to become some sort of social justice public announcement. Again, I was instantly turned off by what the story had become.,,Now, the gameplay to me in the original was always secondary to the story.,Slow paced, hide-and-seek, limited ammo gameplay. Nice, but not its saving grace.,It is basically the same with few nice new features.,,Graphics are amazing as usually, but the disaster of a story and cringe cutscenes and agenda pushing messages won't save it this time.,,Highly disappointed. Highly Disgusted. Zero Points. I feel so cheated.
1337) Just finished going through the story, and have to say it was fairly boring.  The gameplay/combat was fine, but it seemed like it never built upon the original.  The graphics were amazing, the music  was also good.  The story just never got going, I sort of wish they would have just ended as a dream sequence.  It wouldn't have saved the story, but it wouldn't have left you with a "why aren't these characters growing"
1338) Last of Us 2 is so disappointing especially after the first game. The first one was a masterpiece and one of my favorite games of all time. Last of Us 2 is a complete and utter  mess all around from character development/progression to the story and where it was driven. Characters make decisions that do not reflect who they are from what we learned about them in the first game. The only thing that was good was the graphics but that is not enough to save this disaster of a game. Sony and Naughty Dog can do better than this. Do not buy this game or wait for it to be in the $5 bin which shouldn't take long.
1339) Graphics 10/10,Gameplay : 9/10,Music : 9/10,Story : -28/10,grade : 0/10,,Psycho games!!!
1340) Neil Druckmann just made a $60 SJW propaganda instead of the game we waited for 7 years. Don't get me wrong, I'm not furious about the game containing characters with various races and sexual orientations. I have absolutely no problem with that. However, I'm furious for TLOU 2's inconsistently breaking all the characters' personalities in order to make a point, characters' motivations that don't add up in order to make a point, and throw away/killing characters with no sensible explanation IN ORDER TO MAKE A **** POINT. For what? so that Mr. Druckmann could enlighten us about 'how video games should treat their female characters'.,,If these aspects of the game was advertised clearly from the trailers, I would have not be so angry at least, because if that was the case, I would not have bought it in the first place. Instead, Naughty Dog released a trailer deliberately deceiving customer as if the TLOU 2 is all about Joel and Ellie's story. But the reality is far harsh. Joel dies in the beginning of the game and you are forced to play as the killer Abby half of the game as if the game was forcefully educate players "See? Abby is not so bad. Joel was the bad guy in her eyes" and this take was done in very poorly paced manner.,,This piece of abomination made people realize the fact that the success of previous TLOU was accomplished by collective efforts from talented staffs once Naughty Dog had. Namely, Bruce Straley.,,Don’t buy this propaganda and don’t trust 10/10 user reviews for they are bought by Sony. ND and Sony seem very desperate. Why? because they know the game is so **** up.
1341) The first 30 minutes in the game-play is so boring....And why did you Killing Joel like a random NPC ? Man, the guy can defeat everyone because he has a lot of experience (more than 20 years) in this apocalyptic world. Sincerely, the story-telling in the game is totally wrong and distant from the Last of Us 1. Omg! You clearly put a lot of female strong characters and the issue of LGBT+ in front of all the whole and great story that was made in the first game. This is bull***!
1342) A sequel that insults its predecessor with an atrocious plot that undermines the first game.,,The marketing campaign lied with edited cutscenes to make a character seem like they appear more when they are actually killed off at the start. (this is the reason for the 0 review, the game delivered is not the game advertised) If you enjoyed the first game, do not sour that memory with this pathetic "revenge" plot sequel.
1343) the second half of the game is just awful!  especially the part where we needed to play for Abby.
1344) This is not a sequel. It's a complete fraud. At least in your trailer let players know there is going to be a new playable character.
1345) Dull game. Too long and boring, with stupid scenario and characters. Bad game design, no stealth (you use stealth for kills, no for invisible play style). The new mob, who was hidden like "spoiler" - is a fat boring piece of **** To kill it you have to shoot, shoot, and shoot, and shoot... so interesting! Bad game for ppl with no taste,
1346) its raw and feels truly punishing and real. Truly shows what apocalypse would be iike, sadly gamers with apocalypse fantasies cant stomach the death of their favourite character.
1347) Story telling is bad ,really bad. It's so much disappointment at the and, you play through those hours, and at the end you think that it would have been better not to play at all.  Visually It's stunning,  im sad that it doesn't matter because of Story wise better not to play it...
1348) Really loved the story of the first game, this story sucks. If you play the last of us for anything but the story as a major role, you aren’t a real fan.
1349) Coming from someone who is LGBTQ+ the depiction is insulting and completely unbelievable. When trying to “change the world” maybe make sure you’re not actually setting the movement back. This was a game where you cared and loved the main characters, not a Game of Thrones book. Stop spoon feeding your audience B.S and they will respect your future games and stories. Try to make your game a life lesson and soon you have less games being sold. Graphics are great, story and script are ridiculous.  This developer used to be good and cared about feedback.  Not hate speech but honest feedback. Not anymore.
1350) Naughty Dog and Neil just made most of the fans mad and very disappointed including me.,Rather than make this an epic farewell to our beloved character, they killed Joel like sh*t.,Joel deserve better. It's not about his dead but about how he died.,,The story would be much much more better if Joel got separated from Tommy and somehow in life and dead situation and then saved by Abby, a long the way then Abby learn their names and invite both of them to her hideout.,Joel of course would be refuse at first, but because she saved his life and too far away going back home he'll eventually agree.,,And the golf club, if that's Joel we know from the first game he will fight till the end. He will grab the club from the first swing, smash Abby's leg and before he can smash Abby's head, Manny shot him. And then Manny gave Abby the gun, Ellie comes in and saw Abby shot Joel to dead.,,That's would be more sense, and epic farewell to Joel.,The end if Ellie finally let Abby live, we can understand and accept it.,But after Abby brutally and tortured her figure father to dead and pursue her and in the end let her free, WTF is that!,,Your story suck Neil and Naughty Dog!
1351) I couldn't finish the game after "that moment". They re is no need to be a fanboy and say people are mad just simply because it happens that is not true. Its the poor writing and the way it happened just doesn't make sense on so many levels, the reason people are mad is because this game is solely made to push an agenda and politics. I don't see whats wrong with people not wanting politics in games and to just be unbiased, please do not buy this game do not support these developers.
1352) This is an insult to the first part, a spit to the fans and the characters that were created with so much care
1353) As a great fan of the 1st TLoU game I was dramatically frustrated with characterless plot full of  cliche (The walking Dead, GoT etc.), wanton acts of aggression (irrational even for TLoU universe) and for unforgivable and irremissible betrayal of fans' expectations and feelings.,I feel shattered and devastated.,As for me, TLoU is over after beloved character's execution.,,Graphics - 8/10 - are inferior to the Witcher 3 (2015), Red dead redemption 2 (2018).,Story 1/10 - pathetic and beyond recovery.,Game-play - 4/10 The same mechanics and duct tapes from the previous game.,Replay-ability - NEVER.
1354) So little innovations and new game mechanics.Plot is weak .The ending is very bad.They should have done more for 7 years.I've been disappointed.
1355) I didn't want to beat Ellie. I have been waiting for LOU2 for a very long time. It is the only reason that I am playing with PS4. How can I enjoy this game with Abby who murdered Jeol with a golf club!,Terrible storytelling and I can not immerse myself in gameplay. It is like a Star Wars Rise of Skywalker. What a disappointment and what a waste of my money. This is not what LOU fans want to see!!!
1356) No comments actually, sorry.,,Not mad about what happened, mad about HOW it happened and WHEN. Storytelling was a TOTAL DISASTER, there is not a loose end that you can actually grab and say: "THIS PART IS WORTH IT!" LOL,,Graphics are one of the best tho but since this is a story-base game, they still deserve a 0.
1357) Just a far cry from the original. Made me very sad playing through it knowing this is the garbage naughty gives us to compare to 1
1358) Reason today is "persona non grata". Only two years ago, Stephen Pinker published his best-selling book Enlightenment Today. Truly today!,This is no longer a struggle for some ideals (albeit deeply false). This is not a fight against any injustice there. This is a spiritual disease. It is not arguments and rational arguments that come into play, but rather “it seems to me,” “I see it,” “it seems to me,” “my feelings are offended,” “my feelings are hurt.” And I am ready, in the name of these sensations, to smash down all ideas of rationality and decency. After all, I'm right!
1359) Story is just bad it could be better. But it not the gameplay and how it looks is amazing but the story is what stopping it from being good.
1360) Bad on so many levels..,They lied about so many things and the story had so many other options to end with and the direction they chose was probably the worst. Ellie should have killed abby or she should have never left home. But that just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the things that ruined the so long awaited release of this game..
1361) The only award it should receive is being the most “disappointing game of the century”
1362) This game isn't even bad...I don't really know people with what psyche could play it and after all say that it is a masterpiece. I played first part because of story.Graphic and gameplay are not not such important for me.But in the second part not only story but gameplay is absent.Who could write it?So many plot holes..To say I'm disappointed means nothing to say.
1363) I cannot even understand how they released this game as the second part of one of the best games of all time, didn't they realize that the story was 95% of why the first is a masterpiece? Not the graphics, not the fight mechanic, not the lighting effects.....The story!
1364) What do you want to express to us? Feminism? Is it more noble to do this by demeaning men? Or is it to give Asians a worthless identity like a zombie appear at the roadside? You could have used more cleverness Way or a better plan to accomplish your purpose, but in the end you just only complete the destruction of your masterpiece,TLOU,which is the definitely not the reasons why players support the second generation,But if this is what you want,, Ruined your reputation, congratulations, you have achieved your goal perfectly and brilliantly
1365) Trash story, graphics doesn't mean anything if story is **** This game is an example for how to ruin a legendary game. They just killed joel and there is no **** revenge wow man.,,Whole game is just a misery porn simulation.
1366) A game with pretty great gameplay but a mediocre story. They killed off Joel so early in the series just so they can dangle flashback scenes just to make you feel sad is just is ridiculous. I would have at least wanted to see some note of those moments before killing Joel off. Forcing you play as Abby for the whole second half of the game was a stupid decision on their part. They don't make her a likeable so you'd actually want to play as her at all before forcing you to. She's an adulterer with no remorse for killing Joel right after he saved her. I know Joel's crimes were atrocious but so are abby's and the whole WLF's. Pulling the whole: "look how relatable and human these **** are... you know the ones who slaughtered people and whole towns. But look they've got dogs, families, kids, and schools. Ooo they didn't kill Ellie and Tommy because they weren't targeting them so they must be good people" even though they're warmongers who've gotten an entire town that looks so impossibly perfect and pristine that its warmonger influences nowhere to be seen in it was so unbelievable that it just left a bad taste in my mouth. I understand the overall message, the execution was just awful. Thought I don't believe I don't believe my score should be as low as it is, I think Naughty Dog needs to get the message across that due to their track record and long 4+ year gaps they need to be held at a higher standard to what we ended up with this dissapointing game.
1367) Neil Druckmann destroyed the characters ,did not expect such a poor story after all these years of waiting
1368) Instant delete after I finished it. It was nothing but a spit in the face to fans of the first game, and playing the game as the person who tortured and killed joel in front of ellie and Tommy (in the beginning of course) was straight disrespect and torture
1369) Games are not only about graphics and cinematics and peolple are not just some stupid customer monkeys that will eat everything big companies produce. This game is the standard of how money and power try to manupulate people's conscious. No, this will not happen! And creators will get what them deserve, it is inevitable! Games are about soul and art at the first place, but this soul is rotten!
1370) A disrespect to the fans who expected more for the characters. Weak history and is visibly hampered by ideological propaganda that is practically pushed down the throat. Raising the subject for the outgoing debate is one thing, throwing up political party booklets just to satisfy one side of the coin, personal ego of the developers and overriding most fans ... That really seems like a very stupid decision. About TLOU2 I just have one more thing to say. I PREFER THE FIRST GAME AND ITS DLC.
1371) I created this account just to downvote The Last Of Us 2 because I was so disappointed. The Last of Us 2 is A Failure in Storytelling and Disrespect To The Original Fans.
1372) Sadly even though the idea wasn't thaaat bad and had some potential this game was ruined and the story is not satisfactory for most fans
1373) There is so much I could say about what's wrong with this game. Instead I will say this. I felt like something died inside me after finishing this game. Days later I still can't believe this is real. Literally I feel like Naughty Dog brutally murdered something I loved so deeply for years right in front of me. And I am not talking about death of some characters. I am talking about storywriting quality expected from not only Last of Us brand, but from this company overall. What they did here is downright criminal. It feels like it was written on the last minute by complete amateurs and nobody gave it a second look before moving forward in development. 7 years and millions of dollars spent and this is what they give us. They absolutely deserve all of the hate that is going on around. And those claims about how all bad ratings are bots or homophobes are just final insult and spit right in the face of all their fans.
1374) Absolutely disgusting, what were this idiots even thinking. So sad Sony doesn’t offer refunds for this.
1375) Bad story, bad gameplay. Ugly framerate and make noisy console. So disapointed by this game.
1376) The game is badly written. You can defend it as much as you want but at the end of the day it just is. Is a 0 out of 10 full with plot holes.,I ll give you 3 examples in Just the first 90 minutes of a 30 hours game:,,Plot hole 1: Tommy and Joel giving out their names which they would never do. Druckman try to defend it by saying they let their guard down as 4 years have passed. This argument falls completely apart when you consider how caution Tommy was when Ellie and Joel arrives to him in the first game. Tommy by that point has been living for years in Jackson and even when his brother arrives he did not let his guard down until he recognize him.,,Plot hole 2: When you play as Abby in Seattle every one at the wolf army realizes shes gone after only one day. But at the begining of the game she had been traveling for weeks with aprox 6 People only to find Joel when she was already a part of a different organization than the fireflies (she was a wolf by then). So did the wolfs let abby and her friends go with supplies and ammo for weeks so she can find her daddy s killer when she was one of the best soldiers of the wolf organization and also that the wolf organization has a planned to strike at lev s Island with abby in front of the first line of attack?,,Plot hole 3: abby was saved by Joel but not a single second thoughts of the assasination that she was about to do when the person she was looking for has Just saved her life?,,Plot amor: Owen tells abby that when the others see the town of Jackson they will want to return as it was too big. So What does Neil Druckman do to solved this? He sent Joel directly to abby a few hours later.,,Bad writing at its finest! And yes. This is only 90 minutes in a 30 hours game.
1377) This game is dishonest and it appears that the head writer is psychotic if he thinks this is a good story.  I seriously question the mental health of the writer who thinks this even passes as a morality play.  It is akin to a sociopath that pretends to know human motivation.,The fact that they got rid of the competent female writer to have some egocentric lunatic write this ham-fisted, heavy-handed tripe shows that this so called woke take is cynical and was handled by a true toxic male.  This is the toxic masculinity that they often trot out we should avoid.  If you want to have fun when you play a game, avoid this.  Outlast handled torture and strife better.  Dying light has better monsters.  They ignored the story of trying to actually deal with the plague for this claptrap.  I give it a 2 because it looks impressive enough.  The mechanics are bland and you have absolutely zero agency with the two players.  Think about it, this male 'feminist' takes away the agency of the wronged woman protagonist.  What was this game made for, other than some grotesque circle jerk with the writer and a mirror?,Avoid the game and play something better.,After going over Ghost of Tshuahima it proves this game is not fun.
1378) This game is just a big letdown and a disgrace! If you loved the first one, do yourself a favour and forget about this piece of trash. I'm still shocked how Naughty Dog managed it to kill off such a big franchise in just two hours, unbelievable!
1379) First let me start by saying that TLOU (the original) is one of my top three favorite games of all times. I've played that game in all difficulties and at least 8 times total. That game deserves to be called a masterpiece.,,My score for this God-forsaken title is 3 out of 10. Reason why I'm giving it a 0 is that if the "critics" have the audacity to give it a 10 then I'll do the same the other way around and drop it to 0.,,Joel is one of the best written characters I've had the pleasure to play as. He's deeply flawed, hurt, and he's just trying to survive. He runs into a situation that allows him to experiment what he once thought lost. We get to go through that process in the middle of an apocalyptic world with incredible environment and powerful relationships. That story gets to you, it makes you feel connected to the character.,Ellie is a complete bad-ass. We love her from the moment we met her and once we got to know her she became a person you just can stop trying to care of, even though she's more than capable to do it by herself. This father-daughter relationship creates a bond that it's impossible not to love.,,Here's my take on TLOU2:,- Joel is portrait as a complete different character. He makes decisions that are not the ones he would do. Same as his brother Tommy.,- Joel gets killed the worst imaginable way. And in the first two hours! He deserved better. Know your audience Neil Druckman.,- Joel gets spit in his bashed faced by a self inserted Druckman after he's killed. I felt that spit in my face, and before you say it, no, not in a good story telling way, just in a disgusting, unnecessary way.,- Ellie: I still love Ellie, it's just overwhelmingly sad to see that all they added to her in terms of character is a revenge plot. No closure on her relationship with Joel.,- Abby: I will never care for Abby, you can put me in a 60-hour Abby only game, where she saves humanity and then becomes Mother Theresa 2 and I still won't like her. Her motivations, character, story telling are not compelling in the way they were presented. And on top of that we get to play as her for 15 hours? And right after she killed our beloved Joel? I think that my 3-year-old nephew can come up with something better than that.,-  With so many plot lines, you decided to explore this one? Was a team of writers consulted on their thoughts and if they were, were their opinions taken into account? I've read hundreds of ideas on possible plots that I would get behind. Deep, interesting, exploring our beloved characters even more. So many possibilities wasted, this is just sad.,- Gameplay is basically the same as the old one so nothing more to say on that side.,- Visuals are stunning no doubt about it, top-notch in that regard. Unfortunately this means nothing if the game story isn't enjoyable.,- The ending is mind-blowing bad. Let's take your plot and finish it maybe? Oh, no! Let's kill 300 people (including a pregnant lady) and then let's forgive the one person who destroy our life and killed our father. Seriously?,,I could write an essay on why you shouldn't play TLOU2 but I'll just stick to what you should know right now: Don't waste your money on this game. Better support game companies that actually care about their fan bases.
1380) 叙事有结构性问题。编剧在自我感动中设置了该剧情，让人厌弃自己所操控的角色，这是糟糕至极的游戏体验，我不得不讨厌该编剧。,The narrative has structural problems. The screenwriter set the plot in self-movement, which makes people disgusted by the characters they control. This is a terrible game experience. I have to hate the screenwriter.
1381) totaly a ****,fk joe just die for nothing,This plot is just fking sht Do not waste your money.,if you care about the characters or anything the previous game set up
1382) This is the most disgusting game I’ve ever played in my entire life. Fire Neil seriously. Or I’ll never play any naughty dog game. Such a sad individual and treat your players like a bunch of clickers.
1383) Gameplay is trash with that sound system, i mean, the zombie is in front of me, and i hear him completely on my right, who the hell was in charge, a toddler? animations are too buggy. i don't even want to talk about the story, only the beggining was fun, what were you thinking when making porn scenes, it would compensate the death? screw the story makers, this game was supposed to be "the last of us", not some random love story from the walking dead.,PS: Took me an hour to post this, screw metacritic as well.
1384) Gameplay fantastic, visually stunning, the soundtrack by Gustavo is arguably some of the most beautiful musical scores ever composed, then they went a butchered everyone’s favourite character in the dumbest way, the fact tommy would openly tell these random people who him and Joel where when they have never met them simply doesn’t add up it makes these characters look dumb and they are not the whole plot is set up purely to then push this vengeance plot before trying to make you have empathy for this Abby who no one likes or cares about I’m hugely disappointed whoever thought this story was a good idea was f***ing idiot, I’m going to forget this game this is not a 95 the critics are clearly getting there pockets filled with cash this shows no respect for the first game and frankly is the biggest load of bull I have ever been forced to play after 7 years of waiting... Do not buy save your money.
1385) さよなら Neil Druckmann and your New Dog,This gameplyay formula has advanced in many cosmetic areas, such as visual presentation and combat animations.,but the core loop of stealth loot and shoot has not evolved in the ways that would have mad the core gameplay more engaging or apperling than in the frist game.,in addition the changes to exploration traversal and environmental puzzles are so minor that the last of us 2's gameplay feels tired and outdated.,more terminally the story of the game is a complete mess, foregoing any of the relationships themes and tones that were central to the first game,and replacing them with a petty revenge story driven by unlikable characters making decisions that seem ridiculous and unbelievable.,structurally, the story takes a near 10 hour detour introducing you to new characters and storylines that are completely ancillary to the main plot,,and the final payoffs ware not worth the long long walk to get there.
1386) In the shortest way, I could possibly explain: I am a fan of The Last Of Us, so here are my thoughts:,,Technically: 7/10,Execution of play mechanics for PS4 level are Ok ish, and where stuff is missing or weird, new stuff is added to make the game more immersive and real like. But then you have the bad stuff that make it so arcade... I get now why Ellie cannot climb over stuff (because another character can do that)... This game reminds me of GTA San Andreas when you would look to the right, to the left, before crossing the street and boom a car shows up out of nowhere. Same here, stuff just show up cuz why not... very realistic :)) Also reloading is bad... like on CS GO... walking sometimes feels like on FIFA when the character is not related to the ground it sits. The added new mechanics are awesome, and I love how Ellie can fall and still shoot. that is cool and badass at the same time.,,Effects: 9/10 -> I felt the adrenaline with the introduction of several elements to let you know what happens around you. Also the mood of the game, colours, special effects are top-notch. Flares are so awesome, wow! Also, the water looks good, and when is a storm outside be it in the forest, city or water, man you almost feel the fear of something falling on you. Good job there!,,Story: 1/10 -> never played a game I hated the story so much.,,Put a kid to kill everyone, and I mean everyone. Then people who should be more responsible choose to put themselves in risk for nothing... Then have a kid kill out of ... promise? Is this The Last of Us? Let's kill a bunch of humans, kids, dogs, pregnant women, mothers, fathers, patrol people etc.,,The only things you kill less are zombies and clickers -> you can outrun them so... the same amp to kill women and pregnant kids that are not infected cuz this is the vision of ND.,,The story is poorly driven, you have to make stuff for no f' reason and most times you would say: Joel would not want that, Joel would not do that, WTF Ellie why would you do that, ND why you force me to do that.,,And then the second part comes in and you question is WHAT?,After you take a pause and maybe get back to the game or sell it ar Micromania (store in France related to games), or just continue because maybe the 5 stars are worth it in the end.,,Well, surprise surprise, ND decided to use bad publicity, as publicity. So no... the end of Part 2 is just sad... very sad. Ellie became a character that should just die and be at peace. Just like Joel. No more suffering, no more innocent people to die because of her.,And the other characters -> instead of searching for the rainbows, make the rainbow...,,Remember hot the Hobbit was a very bad movie compared to The Lord of the Rings?,Remember how the movie feels too long or too much?,,This is part 2, also too long, also done by the same team, also disappointing.,But unlike the hobbit, this one costs 59,99 euro and you are forced to play like you don't want to, make choices that you, or the Ellie from part 1 would not make.,,So yeah, wanna get pissed of you lost hours? try the game.
1387) This game sucks!! Lazy writing. Worst story,False advertising,Playing as Abby for more than half of the game,No joel and ellie afevnture as told about.,It just sucks.
1388) very bad game story, why I need to control people to kill Ellie, and the producer is also disagreeable
1389) What in the world have you done to this series. The story is probably the worst I have ever experienced. Why would I want to play as this woman for 12 hours
1390) Definitely not worth it. It just rides on the first game’s success. The story makes you rethink why are wasting your time on this. Characters lack the personality that makes the first game great. And don’t get me start talking about the plot, plot holes everywhere.The AI feels like they were form a 2010 game.The only thing that’s good is the graphics which you see by watching an show For FREE.
1391) This game had me on the edge of my seat waiting for scenes to play even though that the story is weaker than the first. I just love this game so much.
1392) I didn't wait 7 years for this **** I can't believe this is the sequel to the Last Of Us, which in my opinion is the greatest game ever made in the history of video games.,,I enjoyed playing this game for the first few hours.  Graphics were amazing, and the story line seemed promising.  That was until Neil Druckmann killed Joel.  Neil Druckmann makes users feel hatred anger against the new character,  Abby, by excluding Joel from the very beginning of the game. Then, he shows the backstory of Abby, which no one wanted to know, to justify her actions. I already felt disgusted and irritated by this time. But that wasn't all.  The game forces THE USER TO CONTROL ABBY AND ATTACK ELLIE. FOR FXXK SAKE. I didn't want to play anymore. That was when i burnt the CD in my backyard out of disgust and disappointment.,,DO NOT BUY OR PLAY THIS FXXKING GAME. SOLID 0 OUT OF 10.
1393) i just hurts. I was so hyped for the game but the story just sucks! In what universe dooes someone want to play the character who is hunting down your favorite charachter. You have to play against your own interests. Me big sad
1394) There is nothing much to this game except a trash story with over-the-top violence and a message it miserably fails to convey. I regret wasting my money on this game from a company that has abused copyright law and advertising to lie and cheat consumers into thinking they are experiencing a continuation of the first (and incredible) Last of Us entry.
1395) This is a perfect example of why graphics don't make a game great. When Naughty Dog wrote this story they went the route of how can we best piss of our existing fan base.,If you are a returning Last of Us player this is a do not buy.
1396) Bad storytelling and scripting, bad choices in character development, most disappointing release since ever.
1397) Favourite character is killed off and thats when everything went downhill. Its such a horrible game
1398) these **** killed joel and tried to get us to sympathize for Abby... no one gives a **** about her this ain’t about her
1399) A shock value cheap tactic they ruined everything about what the first game was all about for CASH
1400) It takes masterful skill to make a great comedy that genuinely makes people laugh and brings joy to their lives. But it is beyond easy to make an emotional drama that is disturbing, depressing, and leaves a pit in your stomach after experiencing it. TLOU2 is basically a combination of House of Cards (Kevin Spacey) + woke culture. The people who designed/developed this are world-class, as the game is a technical marvel that should be highly praised. But the writing/story is the work of a simple mind trying to be edgy for shock value, failing to realize how obvious, cliche, and mainstream these concepts are nowadays.
1401) The story is absolute trash. When that happens I think that talking about the graphics or audio is pointless.
1402) I hate the game because killing a character for a **** revenge story that gets no new zombie and don't explore the different season.
1403) Not nice what they did with the characters, doesn’t look like a sequel from the first one. Right before Joel’s death it looked like Ellie was determined to have revenge and then the end of the game is disappointing. If it wasn’t a sequel it would be better.
1404) The game sucks, they completely ruined the story its a huge mess. I don’t care that Ellie is lesbian. I don’t want to play Abby’s boring story for half the game. Abby didn’t matter to me at all. I wanted to play as Joel and Ellie. The way they killed Joel off 2 hours in is just terrible writing. I could have come up with a better story in ten minutes. Boring ass game don’t buy.
1405) Destroyed by woke politics. So much potential and it was destroyed by pandering to people who won't buy the game.
1406) Disappointment I don’t have any opportunity on my hands to describe how much painful this game turned out to be!,Don’t play this game,it’s no use,such a spoiled one,The idea of this game is based on violence-ok,but was that a reason to ruin the story,characters?
1407) Worst story ever. Naughty dog should be ashamed of themselves,the last of us 1 was a Masterpiece.....part 2 pure trash,Do not buy
1408) My heart is broken for writing this,,Well, if you expect a fantastic and exciting adventure like the one in the first game, hoping to see more about Joel and Ellie, obviously, this game is not for you. The Last Of Us Part 2 is disappointing in terms of history, with the characters being mischaracterized just so that the story, full of holes, works "well". The first game, where we see a family love and the hope of starting over in the chaos of a post-apocalyptic world, is completely destroyed in part 2, becoming a class of "revenge is bad" with a sad and empty ending .,,It is a visually and sonically beautiful game, it does not have innovative mechanics compared to the first and with a lot of potential wasted in history
1409) It is heartbreaking how main character died. And you can not do anything about and also with the game later you have no choice. Come on - the are games with multiples endings, but here we have one story, very, sad... sad story which "most of us"  don't want play.
1410) The story of the game is so bad, characters are very empty, everything is illogical, if you bought you’ll only get the graphics which will be boring after 1 hour of playing.
1411) The ending was weak. The writing was extremely heavy handed and nearly every character breaks character just to drive the plot forward at one point or another, often in disappointing and extremely uninteresting ways.,I could forgive the ideological brow beating like acrobatic pregnant women and hulking apocalyptic female bodybuilders if the overall storyline was handled with respect, but I don't think it was.,This is yet another example of hipster writers botching a beloved franchise by "subverting expectations" instead of telling a story. I don't think feminism ruined the game, but it didn't help.,Not worth playing, the mechanics are exactly the same as the first.
1412) Dont know how they managed to get people to hate the game after the first, thats a talent also . Nothing is there for the people who loved the first game
1413) It was very difficult for me to swallow Joel trusting a total stranger, entering a house full of people and dying stupidly being a survivor of more than twenty years.,not to mention that this time we did not have the depth of the healing weight of humanity, it seems that it was not really
1414) The combination of of identity politics and mediocre writing in THE LAST OF US PART II absolutely annihilated what could have been a decent (although completely unnecessary) sequel to the masterpiece that was the first game.
1415) I will never buy games from new dog.Trash story,disrespect the old fans.and Abby sucks!!!
1416) Just couldn’t get over the massacre of character arcs, questionable structure, underwhelming ending and how it's riddled with plot holes.
1417) ...........................................................Just pretend that never happened this game.
1418) this is the worst video game i have ever played , is a complete humiliation to all the last of us community , Neil Druckmann killed this franchise .
1419) Graphics are nice, but the game itself is pure bullsh*t in many many aspect... I feel like its never meant to be continued
1420) Not a game for me not interesting for me and not immersive for me  .........
1421) This is a game to feed the fans who played TLOU 1.,It makes the characters that came out in the previous game bad, and injects disgusting characters into the users.,What are you thinking of making this game?
1422) the only thing here on top is graphics and music,And this is for $ 60 no thanks
1423) great graphics, great atmosphere, great sound design, great gameplay but bad story
1424) I will start by writing that yes, the game doesn't objectively deserves a 0, but I rate it that way because it doesn't deserve a 10 either - far from that and what matters is the average score so I want my contribution to bring it as low as possible.,This out of the way, people might think that is stupid, please read to the end.,,Everyone is unanimous to what's good and what's bad in this game - at least everyone who's honest.,The mocap and other technical aspects are top notch and the accessibility features will probably be a proof of concept for years to come. That's said, good job on that.,,Now on everything else ... To me, the game is a complete failure on mostly everything.,The gameplay in the last of us 1 was quite simple with gathering supplies, crafting different tools and shooting/melee sneaking on ennemies. What has changed in 7 years ? Not much. So little actually that it wants you to wonder, what have you guys been doing for 7 years on that front ? Did you really spend 10% of your time working on the actual gameplay and 90% on accessibility features ?,,Now to be honest, it wouldn't even be that bad since once again, everyone agrees that what made the last of us 1 a great game wasn't really the gameplay, but the story and its characters.,,Now is the rollercoaster and where i've got my beef.,I didn't really care for that infamous scene - I was actually expecting it even though I hadn't seen any leaks, I mean the game has been advertised by Sony and ND as a quest for revenge, and in all gameplay trailers you would see Ellie as the main character ? You don't need to be a genius to make 2+2 and figure out the very few reasons that would be a motivator for Ellie to start a revenge spree.,,Does it make sense though ? Most people are arguing that involved characters would have not acted that way and it's true. You don't build up a character with traits, knowledge, behaviors, to throw that up the windows because it is convenient to make a plot advancement. And that stuff also happens with Ellie who is really just **** most of the time.,The rest of the cast is honestly weak and uninteresting and the story in itself is pointless. I guess you would say thats the whole point of vengeance being pointless but after 30 hours of doing repetitive scavenging hunting, it leaves you with a bitter taste, not because of the story ending but because you wasted your own time. The game leaves you with nothing.,,Finally, I want to emphasize that i'm not one to care for political agendas and stuff in games, mostly I don't even care about reviews - my account creation was to make a review against what blizzard had done with warcraft 3 reforged, that says a lot about how much it had to take for me to write a review.,Regarding the whole agendas stuff, I didn't even knew who Neil druckmann was but I have to say after seeing the bigger picture, I'm convinced that there actually is political agenda in that game.,There's too much of it. Too much of Druckmann himself in the game :,The DR Uckmann game card ?,The motion capture for Manny being Neil Druckmann ?,Neil Druckmann being jewish and the only represented religion in the game being judaism ?,,This stuff is Kojima level of putting yourself as a director into your game to the point where you put some of your own personal beliefs into the game and to the player that you shouldn't be.,,Don't get me wrong, I'm all for the representation of minorities, sharing culture and all of that but here there is something really wrong and at some point we can't just shut up to SJW and political correctness bullying.,,I guess anyone's take on the game is as good as mine but at least in put my cent to the discussion because I don't want the videogame industry to become what Naughty Dog just did.
1425) You know what? I created an account here just for to write an review on this game. And I want to do it in a smart way with examples and explanations, but I so overwhelmed with emotional and disappointment, I just can't.,,I loved the first one. I love the story, I love Joel and Ellie and have the huge attachment for them. And what did I get in part two?,,A nightmare.,,I was forced to watch a Joel's death and then I was forced to play as the person who killed him. The Naughty Dog is really think that player could grown an attachment for Abby just because she had a dog, a group of some sh***ty friends and saved two random children that came out of nowhere?,,NO. That's not enough.,,All time playing as Ebby I was like "oh okay I don't care about you nor your back story come on let me play as Ellie again". I wanted a f****ng revenge or a choice at least - to kill or to spare Abby, but got some pacifistic s***t in the end.,,We have seen how Joel was beaten to death, we have seen Ellie tearing apart being forced watched it... and after all this, after what Ellie was been through to get to Abby, she is letting  Abby go? She lost her FAMILY, LOVE OF HER LIFE, friends for this and she is LET ABBY GO? This is some sh***t. It's ridiculous. I'm telling you. It's irrational decision for someone like Ellie. It doesn't fit her personality at all.,,And let's talk about Srcars for a second. Like... what do we know about them besides it's some kind of cult fighting with The WLF? Hmmm... nothing? These two children - Lev and Yara. Who are they? The literally came out of nowhere. Like LITERALLY. Why Lev cut his own hair? What rule doesn't allow it? What other rules is there at all? Why Lev decided to go to his mom? For what was all this Scar's children story?,,Oh, I tell you. To show Abby bright side, like, "look she is doing all this to save life of this poor girl and going to Island to rescue Lev risking her own life, oh, she IS so kind  LOVE HER NOW, feel sorry for HER! Yeah, she killed Joel, but she HAD HER REASONS, LOOK - HER FATHER IS SO SWEET HE LIKES ANIMALS, oh no, bad Joel killed him (and a bunch of the other guys to protect Ellie at first place)!",,Abby’s dad was an angel fighting for the future of mankind, yeah, right. So what would happen if Ellie had a real parents traveling with her to the Fireflies,  thinking that their child can help making a vaccine, and then finding out this people is about to kill her. What would they do? Say "okay" and go?,,The whole Abby story is weak and has a lot of plot's hole. Yeah, maybe Naughty Dog was trying to draw a parallel between Ellie and Joel and Abby and Lev/Yara, I get it. But it doesn't work at all. Abby is a not mentally stable. She is not a "villain to hero", she is a dummy. We see Abby like a ruthless killer, we see how she obsessed with revenge - and when she get what she want she all the sudden became a loving MOTHER?,,Oh, come on! It's such... Gosh, I wish I could swearing.,,Ellie clearly has a PTSD, she can't sleep, she has a hallucination. She is affected by all this happened to her, by what she had done. We see how she changes. This hurts.,,But Abby stay the same. I totally get Abby’s motivation and her pain about the lost, but I just don’t care. I don’t feel anything for her at all.,,Ellie deserves better.,Joel deserves better.,,Abby is not deserving anything - nor a forgiving or a lot of screentime.,,I AM DISAPPOINTED.,,7/10 for graphics - but I want a good story, not a cool texture of grass.,0/10 for the story.
1426) Gameplay and graphic wise, it’s super good.,But that’s not why you play this game is it? This game is heavely story based and is some what more of a movie. And the story sucks as everyone know. Naughty dog just want a pat on the back for their LGBQT friendly game. GOOD JOB
1427) A game with disgusting gameplay that is painful to play. BUT as a movie is not so bad. If the game removes all the gameplay (which is unclear why it is needed there), then it will become better. I believe that games should be judged by gameplay and not by plot. And if you judge so, the Last of us 2 is 0-3 out of 10, if the plot is 7-8 out of 10.
1428) One of the worst storytelling in flagship games ever from a gamedeveloper that made a game with the best storytelling in games ever)
1429) Ellie and Joel sacrified for tell the vengeance is bad the story is illogic,And the new charactere are interresting,What s a pitty
1430) what the golf kinda trash garbege game ive ever played even it is console game  you can play on pc
1431) A terrible piece of writing. While the visuals are good there is way too much dead time. You don't feel anything great from the story after a while. I just can't believe this happened. Whoever thinks this is good I don't know how but good for you. Thanks Naughty Dog. Toss this game in the basement and never open it again....
1432) Obviously one of the biggest sony launch ever and by far the worst , the story was written by amateur writers who though they were deep by killing 90% of the characters , well guess what , they failed and its a piece of trash.
1433) What did they do with this masterpiece? They scattered him, I do not advise anyone to play this "game".
1434) I hated it!  Its sad because i loved the first game.  I didnt even finish.  Fourteen hours in and i was done and handing my copy over to a friend with appropriate warnings.  I never wanted to play Abbys story, and i dont care that shes trans.  She isnt the protagonist, shes the antagonist.  The control scheme was ROUGH! and in a survival game thats a cheap way to die.  One credit i will give them, the graphics were excellent.  I was glad to get SOME more Ellie time, but i wanted more.  The game is watered down compared to the original.  The total minimalism isnt there.  Thats  just me.  It isnt good just because there are LGBTQ characters, a good game is good, and a bad one is bad.
1435) Got 12 hrs in the game. Really disappointed. As we all know, story is absolute garbage. Therefore, I am still expecting there is a significant combat improvement than the previous installment.. and the answer is BIG NO. ofc if we are talking abt the graphic it is stunning, but if we want that only, just play RDR2 insead
1436) So, where should I start. I am (now was) a big fan of the 'The Last of Us' franchise. Finished the first part 2 times on PS3, 4 times on PS4. To keep it short: If you aren't sure if to buy it and never saw anything from the first Part, leave it and spend the money on something better. The gameplay is pretty nice, like the graphics. Its a story relevant game. And that's where it fails. The story is horrible and so poorly made. Its supposed to be a game of the adventure of Ellie and Joel. You play 49% Ellie, 50% Abby and poor 1% Joel. In my impression in total this game is made of 30% Ellie, 30% Abby, 30% cut scenes and 10% loading screens. That's it. I even accidentally skipped the death of Joel and just saw what happened in my second playthrough and I still don't know, what happened with Tommy, because I was and still am so annoyed of those cutscenes. Why do you make us play the killer of Joel for half of the game? Add some more backround story of Abby, before she kills Joel, so we can feel why she did that. The death of Joel is so poorly made. My tip for Naughty Dog: Remove the really poor death of Joel and sell it as a spin-off. This franchise did'nt deserve such a bad continuation. Its an absolute money waste. I pre-ordered the Collectors Edition. The Collectors Edition, content and figure is really nice, but I wasted 230€ in total for this game. My expectation was really high, when I started this game. Fun went to 0 in minutes. Just grinded for the platinum trophy (when I received it, super rare with 0.3%), packed the blu-ray back in the box and gone in the basement. Save your money, don't buy it. If you really want it, wait for a sale. Don't buy it at least for the full price.
1437) Well the fighting were not too bad, playable, but the storyline ruined the whole game, have no idea why there are so many positive reviews
1438) GOTY: golf of the game,This game is suck and play tricks. So please.. save your money.
1439) Absolute garbage game, so many glitches and the narrative is horrible. A 0/10 is being generous.
1440) Gameplay was good but that story especially the ending was the worst.New characters were also really bad except the dog alice and my man fat gerald.
1441) I want my money back, I waited so long for a great story but instead you got an unobtainable revenge, you are forced to play with a character and you know they want you to like it but it won’t happen, your heroes massacred in a nonsense story, great gameplay and music but the story left too much to be desired, THE ENDING IS TERRIBLE!
1442) I completed this game fully. Completion Time 18 Hours 52 minutes. I'm sure I did not 100% side objectives.,,Graphics 4/10,Poor graphics, does not compare to any modern games except when it comes to character models. Questionable choice of artistic interpretation on what human beings actually look like. I will give some leeway as this is a PS4 title and not on a PC with a 2080 RT.,,Story -1/10,I'm almost positive whoever wrote the first Last of Us ( A Masterpiece) did not contribute much to this story. In the first game we got a masterpiece about a man connecting with another lost soul who symbolically took the place of his daughter. In the last of us 2 (no spoilers) left me feeling like the protagonist from "The last of us" should have handed Ellie over to government researchers  instead of allowing her character to become a cheap version of a HBO breast exposing movie character from the 1990s designed to appeal to the 2020 kink audience.,,Gameplay 2/10,The game plays like an out of date cinematic title similar to what going back and replaying Resident Evil (The original) feels like in the current year, albeit slightly Better.,,Originality 4/10,The game tried a new take on the genre focusing more heavily on the intimate relationships of oppressed minorities in a post apocalyptic genre. I'll give it some points for trying but it was poorly executed, although it was an original take.,,Overall 2/10,The flaws cannot be overlooked, I found myself wanting to put the game away after 2 hours. I only completed it so I could give it a fair review. Games like this are why progressive themes are hated in games. Not because of the message, but because of the poor execution and unrealistic portrayal of stereotypes instead of living breathing humans as characters.,,--------------- 0 Out of 10 --------------
1443) The basic component of storytelling in video games is the player.,If the behaviour and decision made by characters in the cutscenes or scripted animations diverged too much from players' common sense, the whole immersive experience would just collapse and evolve to rage and impatience.
1444) If this was just a bad game, I'd not condone what I'm seeing, with a lot of negative reviews coming from people who didn't actually play the game. I did play some of the game, and I will say only this: It goes beyond just being a bad game. It is a bad game which is also an intentional insult to the fans of the first entry, and a game developer should never, ever insult their fans. I loved the original, and I could not even bring myself to play this one for more than a couple hours on a borrowed copy before returning it in disgust.
1445) What a disappointment... Neil Druckmann, what did you do?,I loved the first episode, but this sequel is a disaster.,How did it come to this? Seven years for this, it's a joke...
1446) Bought game, played for 2 hours, watched the rest of the game on youtube in hope that somehow they will cleanup this mess from the beginning.,,It's such huge dissapointment and disaster. The story feels unnatural as same way as the last season of Game of Thrones. Why ? Why didn't you publish it with different title.,,There is zero creditability now for Naughty Dog.
1447) This game. What a terrible mess,The characters are unlikable, the story is terrible and sometimes when I hit an enemy, the attack went write through them. Also Abby. THE WORST CHARACTER IN THIS SERIES. The game forces us to have sympathy for her when she killed off Joel. WHO WAS ONE OF THE BEST CHARACTERS IN THE FIRST GAME. I will say this though. The graphics are pretty good. But I will never play another last of us game with she man the barbarian. This game hasn’t ruined the first last of us game, but if this is what Naughty Dog is doing with their series from now on. Then count me out
1448) A game that left me very disappointed. After playing The last of us 1 I was excited to play the sequel because the first game was just extraordinary, in gameplay, setting and mainly history. Instead in the second part the story is a complete disaster, forced, does not generate any empathy. It is so bad that it ruins everything else.
1449) This is a tragedy of a game, although the first game is one of my all time favourites.,The gameplay hasn't moved on from the decade-long Naughty Dog formula.,,The hardest hit was the story and writing, if you've experienced the recent slew of dreadful writing from movies and games in popular culture, then you'll know what to find here: Tropes.,What an absolute let-down!,,THEY RELY ON FLASHBACKS FOR NARRATIVE that should tell you enough about the writers' skill.,You can tell by playing this through that the writers have no idea what they're doing, ham-fisted ideas, plot conveniences and boring characters (the writers really treat us like idiots on this last one).
1450) This is a very bad game. I recommend buying only with 80% discount. Better go over the first part. The second is sucks, **** trash
1451) He plot of the game is a dumb cliche almost the whole game had a lot of dumb dialogue and so boring so I almost fell asleep.,The game is not worth the money
1452) Why are producers doing these terrors against their fans? This is a game with a feeling of inferiority to the movie. Naughty Dog's cinematic game should have ended in Uncharted 2.,Other producers shouldn't imitate and critics who gave high scores do not give convincing explanations.
1453) I have never play game with such plane story,and the worst story.Showing disrespect to characters we all love,ND spat to fans faces.There was so many lie about this game.I don't like story at all.Gameplay is boring and  monotonous.In some moments graphic is even worse than in first part.And they work on game for  7 years?
1454) What an absolute joke of a videogame not only do you kill off the most favourable character Joel, you make us play 10 hours as Abby and make us hunt down Ellie, naughty dog you guys do realise you contradicted your own storytelling from the first game right? there was no cure to begin with so the fact that you made it seem like Abby's dad's death meant something well then you are wrong because Ellie would have died for no reason whatsoever and Abby was just some random NPC in the background that had no meaning to us.
1455) It's a complete shame to call this abomination 'Part 2' of 'The Last of Us'.
1456) This game is about the story of Joel and Ellie, and what they did with Joel couldn't be worse.  From the point that they decided to kill him, I already lost interest in the story and when playing as Abby, her story left me completely indifferent.  It's all about team Joel and Ellie for me.
1457) Trash games,We need the stop the necesity of putting everything "political right" it's just stupid, bad story bad, handling, the story was **** up, even with the graphics, they fall apart...
1458) I did not enjoy playing this game. And I don't think I'll ever play another Naughty Dog   game again.,,You'd think naughty dog would've learned a lesson from GoT's  final season on how to not piss off your  audience but  dear reader your probably much better off  loading up the original game  and pretending it's an only child .,,Last of us 2 is filled to the brim with lovely visuals ,cutting gameplay  and good music.  A shame it doesn't  take away from the fact  that going through the story puts you in the shoes of  a loathed character  your supposed to sympathize with , who mere moments before we learn of her story had  very brutally dispatched  the father of our beloved  father daughter duo of the first game because   an NPC of  the first game was suddenly given a name, and a family.,,I guess the take away from this was supposed to be those seeing revenge  should dig two graves or something, but it was so poorly executed each death along our quest to tear  Abby a new one just made me  salivate for her blood even more.  And we didn't even get that.,,Yes  we are supposed to to go , oh, well I guess we're supposed to forgive this. You know it did  flash me back to another game with a fantastic story were an older man bonds with a young girl through a zombie apocalypse.  I wonder  if father figures like Lee and Joel go to the same heaven.  Lee  would be like :  I  died  heroically   saving my charge  , how did you die? And then Joel will be like : I died because  Naughty Dog needed a throwaway  character  to start off  on the most unfulfilling  revenge plot line  that was ever written in  gaming history.    And then Lee would be like : That's rough buddy.,,Anyway  TLDR,    Unfulfilling  unsatisfying and rage inducing plot, unsatisfying  flat  characters,  beloved characters making stupid choices.... just no. Save your money, watch a lets play.
1459) The writing and directing was abysmal, to the point where you simply do not want to play the game anymore. Graphics, music, sound design and animations were absolutely amazing, but none of that matters when the story is trash. Gameplay is meh but that's always been the case even with the previous game.
1460) Storyline is a piece of **** The first one is way way better. Better off playing golf game
1461) This game really sucks, Poor Ellie you deserve a better luck and a better game, ends alone, no girlfriend, no family, no fingers.,This game also should be called The Abbey of Us 2.,I want my money Back!
1462) The last of us was always Joel and Ellie. You could take any two characters and throw them in that world, but that is not the last of us. The last of us was an emotionally intricate and complex story of heartbreak, love, courage, anger, happiness and more revolving around two people. It was a story where the writing and directing was so incredible that it caused the majority of us to connect to and to care for a set of video game characters like never before. We were on that journey with them the entire time, feeling the love, the anger, the heartbreak, the joy that they felt. It connected to me personally like no other video game ever has and still remains, for me, the greatest story in a video game ever....which is why the Last of Us Part 2 is such a disappointment to me. From a purely gaming perspective, this game is fantastic. The graphics are incredible, the game-play is brilliant, the animations are almost flawless. However, even all of these brilliant things about the last of us part 2 cant help me look past how poor and misguided the story is. I didn't play last of us 2 for the graphics. Sure they do help, but, and I'm sure many would agree, I was so hyped for, and played it for the story. I couldn't wait to jump back in after all these years, and after the first hour I was already worrying about where the game was heading. I don't agree with it, but I don't mind them wanting to kill off Joel. However, it was cheap. Instantly then and there in that mansion, the whole premise of the last of us died. An entire game without the relationship between Joel and Ellie which is even worse considering how it was advertised to us as if Joel was gonna be in the game for at least longer than the opening. But I accepted it and continued on under the assumption we were off to get revenge for how they brutally tortured and killed Joel, and in front of Ellie no less. However, half way through the game, when you've gone through the process of taking out the majority of the gang bar Abby, it is mind boggling to me how we are forced to play as her. This woman who brutally murdered Joel and then shot and killed Jesse, whose death was also cheap, right in front of us too. We are now forced to play through her childhood and then play with her and her gang who killed Joel through all 3 days in Seattle and I just couldn't be bothered at this stage. I don't care about Abby. I don't care about her life. I don't care that Joel killed her father. You had this person murder one of the most beloved characters in video game history, 1/2 of the last of us, and then we are forced to play as her, while the writing forces us to try to empathize or connect to this character in some way which is impossible because of what she did. It only gets worse then as, after playing Abby's never ending half of the game, you are forced to fight Ellie while playing as Abby. Then when you think its all over, it reels you back in as Ellie decides she cant let it go and heads to California to find her. Then once you do, after she brutally killed our favorite dad Joel, and after she murdered Jesse, and after she bites 2 of your fingers off, you let her go instead of killing her rendering the whole plot of this game, which was effectively justice for Joel, pointless. This whole story is ridiculous and completely misses the point of why so many of us fell in love with the first last of us, not to mention how inconsistent it is regarding how returning characters think and act based on the first game. The second half of the game in particular baffles me. Playing as Abby just bored and annoyed me as I couldn't care less about her and in no way was I ever going to connect to this random character I was forced to play as who was thrown in to this game to kill Joel. This game just felt like a massive middle finger to fans of the original game. Roughly 20 hours it took me to complete my playthrough and I stopped caring about the game as soon as it hit Abby's part. It is massively upsetting that I waited so many years for a sequel and this tone deaf monstrosity of a story is the best they could come up with. They took everything that made us love the last of us out, and, while I enjoyed playing as Ellie once again for her part of the game, I refuse to accept this as a sequel to the Last of Us. If this was the garbage that Neil Druckmann and his team were going to provide us after 7 years of waiting, I would've preferred if they had not bothered with a sequel and just left us with the masterpiece that was The Last of Us. I think a lot of people who liked the game and are claiming people are just 'review bombing' it for the sake of it and 'love complaining' are missing the point completely. If you take this game as a completely separate standalone with nothing to do with the last of us then yeah, it's a great game. But this was supposed to be a sequel to the Last of Us, the continuation of Joel and Ellie's story but that's not what we got. They failed to deliver.
1463) Only advice i can give after i end this piece of gameplay,save your money.,12/10 and 10/10 rating is nonsense.
1464) Though the graphics and controls are good what makes this game so unbearable is the narrative and the characters interaction with it. The "Last of us" as a franchise is heavily story driven and focuses on character development. The first game smashes this out of the park, however, part 2 seems to abandon the progress that was made with the characters from the first game and diminish the integrity of the characters, and forces you to play as a character you just don't like. Part 1 was a masterpiece with it's character creation, development, and interaction with one another, I don't understand why they abandoned that process which clearly worked. If you never played part 1 then I can imagine none of this would be an issue but for those who have, it is clearly an issue.
1465) Scale Not low enough. Social justice garbage deserves a Negative 3 on a generous day. It's like a teenage girl simulator with relationships set inside of a zombie world as a mere afterthought. Whoever created this game should have their job placed under serious evaluation.I will pay 60 dollars for a fun video game, But I won't pay 60 dollars for some guy's ideas or personal opinions. Joel deserved to go out in a blaze of glory, ultimate gun battle, or watching a sunset after a long days of hard work (even a zombie getting him would have been accepted by me) But no, some social justice warrior comes along with an improvised weapon and turn his head to taco meat. The same man who i saw lose his daughter right inside his arms holding her for her last moments. What a shame.
1466) WTF was that? WTF WTF WTF?,,I mean this is the worst "game" i've ever played, the whole story makes no sense at all. I can't believe there is no responsible decision maker who doesn't say no to this story, which is just soooooo BAD.,I’m lucky to have been able to sell it a little cheaper quickly, I am so disappointed. Yeah and please never believe to the critics.,Graphics-ok, I liked the flooding area, boat part but thats it, I think I just want to quickly forget that this part exists from the last of us universe.... Shame on you naughty dog.
1467) This game has nothing to do with the first TLOU! You are paying for the title, not for the content!,There is no story progress and no character development. You are forced to hate it. The ending is very disappointing and anticlimactic. You are introduced to new characters with no reedemable qualities and no personality. There is literally nothing good about this, absolutely nothing.,If you want to experience this game out of curiosity, watch a gameplay. Do not pay for this game. You will regret it.
1468) Mediocre game play. Certain things shoved down you throat. 100% just buy a used copy for $5. Worth playing but no where near retail price to pass the time.
1469) SJW Walking Sim. No respect for last game...  Graphics fine. Solid use of destroying all character development from the previous game.
1470) That's what happen when a game studio make games for those who don't play those games.,I hope Anita got enough money to make it up to you Neil. ^_-
1471) Just a very bad game. Pushing an agenda clown fiesta game. What a terrible waste of potential with a terrible story.
1472) The once-incredible story has slipped into hopeless darkness, to please modern trends. All this is too sad.,YOU WILL NOT PASS!!!,Not on my shift.
1473) Trash story, no logic at all. Neil druckmann ruined the game with his own stupid fetish
1474) One of the worst games I've ever had the pleasure of playing. Don't get me wrong, I don't care about the people,Complaining and LGBTQ pride and whatnot. This isn't about that however, the game is quite flawed, and that's what makes it so unappealing. The main character is not as lovable as those who came before, and they killed off a beloved main character purely for shock value. I hope I can get a refund.
1475) Worst story ever They’ve ruined the game to me,Also they’ve ruined how abby looks
1476) Full tasteless propaganda **** When will developers begin to think about ordinary players (who are your audience), and not about any minorities there?
1477) Its just a middle finger to the fan community,Its really sad that politics are a part of mkdern game desing
1478) This game has some of the absolutely worst writing I have ever seen in a video game. The storyline caters to people who don’t play video games but like to complain about how video games aren’t politically correct enough. Overall The Last of Us: Part 2 is a shameful sequel to the great game that was the original in this series. Do not buy!
1479) Very unpleasant experience.,I will never play Naughty dog's game again.,NEVER
1480) This game has amazing graphics! But what really ruined this game is forced political and swj message.,They try to brainwash you like netflix. Charcters gender and sexual orientation feels forced and i feel like the game is less about the actual “tlou” and more about swj lgbt feminism promotion. There are game like The Witched 3 who deliver all those messages in much friendlier form,,1 of 10 for bringing personal political views into the game and forcing far leftist swj. It was very selfish move and most of the gaming community feels neglected
1481) Stupid Neil Druckmann ruined the characters that  we love! I dont want to play any of games that you make any more!
1482) One of the worst games I’ve ever played. Bad gameplay,bad story,bad main chars
1483) It was a bold move with the story .. didn't work out for me.,After hours of play with Abby I just wanted this game to end, honestly.
1484) There are many reasons to dislike this sequel, as many other reviews have demonstrated very clearly. It is also such a shame that defenders of the game (for whatever reason) use "attacks of diversity of LGBT" to label players who are genuinely, simply disappointed by the story itself, not anything else.,This is by no means a 0 point game, because of its beautiful graphic rendering. However, this is for sure not a 10/10 game either as its predecessor. I think this game will represent the divider between the era when players trust professional game ratings, and when people only trust players reviews.
1485) Game journalism is totally dead sphere, all their rates are just deception.,Graphics in TLOU 2 is fine, gameplay same to first part, but plot and characters are terrible.,Naughty dog loosed trust of most gamers, like a lot of companies before, as they spit on their fans.,Gameplay trailers are usuless, and try to make us fools.,Preoder system has to be canceled.,Druckmann has to be fired.
1486) Gameplay and graphics are top tier, checking all those buildings for loot was fun.,Story is big disappointment sadly.
1487) Totally failed to deliver point. The story is disgusting and even arrogant.,Also the game play is terrible, endless looting ruins user experience.
1488) The worst story ever, in any medium. The Room has a better plot than this. A betrayal to fans and the art of storytelling. It sadly casts a shadow on the game's technical marvels and makes you unable to enjoy them on their own.
1489) what a pathetic game, killing Joel in first 2 hours, by that thing/abby, he saved that thing/abby's life multiple times and it kills Joel with a golf club, the critics are bought, liars.
1490) A poor, disappointing, forced story with a meaningless ending. They have not respected the original personality of the characters and have simply told a bad story
1491) The game is bad. Joel deserved better. I cannot sympathize with Abby. I do not care for most of the characters because they were killed off just like that and brushed off easily. The gameplay did not change. Everyone is suddenly gay in the apocalypse. The revenge plot is overdone way too much. The use of cheap tactics to make you feel bad like killing animals and a pregnant woman sucks and is not original. Graphics and the sound design is the only thing good about this game.
1492) the game just sucks the graphics are good but the story is the most lazy storytelling i have ever experienced please don't make a 3rd game of the last of us
1493) Joel did not deserve this !,Get woke, get broke !,You killed this amazing story with enormous potential, after the first game...
1494) i don't care about "propaganda" in this game. What really bothers me is boring and overall very bad story. If you only played the first game don't buy part 2 because it's likely going to disappoint you
1495) Excellent music   10/10,Excellent graphics  10/10,Interesting gameplay 10/10,**** plot    -100/10
1496) What a garbage game. Quite honestly one of the biggest pieces of garbage. cut up my cd.
1497) What a **** game. Gameplay is okay but the story is totally unacceptable, it just pieces **** keeping to the players.
1498) black ops 4 had a better story than this. Bad game. Really bad. Even Mass effect Andromeda is way better  than this ****
1499) I would give negative points if I could, this game should not even exist. Story is trash and I mean it.
1500) Amazing graphics, lighting, level design..,Story is utterly disgusting. Characters lost all their charm, intelligence and personnality.,ND just threw an overload of free violence and tell us we are supposed to feel bad. Watch how this game will be used to justify "videogame violence" afterward. I feel bad for half the studio who was shut down for speaking up against this piece of crap on the back of them being "anti-trans" when it was just about the scenario. And the way Sony forces reviewers to give it good score and silence the others is making me sick.,Their is no philosophy here, there is no SJW crap; it's just terribly terribly bad writing and thinking.Game for racist sexists and male haters
1501) I didnt wait 7 years to get disappointed by the story... the gameplay isnt that bad but it cant make up the stupid story
1502) This game is trying to force me to rat **** thougth. And i’m okay with eating dog. That must be saying something
1503) So, sadly, it happend. I didn't want to think it could be possible..... but it is, the game is an absolute joke, I mean......Why? Why did naughty dog just made fun of our wallets, with false advertising in my opinion, because in all of the trailers they showed that Joel lives in almost the entire game, but guess what? They just laughed at us and changed Joel outfit to match the time of the flashbacks..... I have only one question.... Why Naugthy Dog? Why did you throw this amazing franchise into the dumpster? You made my love for playing the first TLOU over and over again, trying different things, disappear..... I can't express my disappointment for this game... I'm sorry but I think you should remake the story or don't make a sequel, because I'm sure it will also be a trash game. You changed my perspective of TLOU. Your failure will never be forgotten and will always remain in the minds of the gamers that waited for this game for years. Im sorry but...... leave this franchise alone and don't bother coming back with it only if you are willing to rewrite the story, with new writers.
1504) I just finished the game and watched the ending.,I support gender equality.,I support political correctness.,I am against all hatred.,I applaud and applaud the creators of this game.,I understand that professional reviewers gave this game a high score.,I understand that gamers gave this game a low score.,I am sad that this game has a low gamer score.,I will give this game a low score for future gamers.,I think it is right.
1505) honestly what a waste of 7 years of hype for nothing... reminder that we pay money for entertainement not for garbage.
1506) If LoU part 1 is about hope, survival and tough love, part 2 is about the revenge killings enacted between two protagonists. While there is a sense of redemption throughout part 1, part 2 is about damnation. It essentially begins with Abby who decided to exact justice on Joel for the death of her father. To settle the score, Ellie decided to hunt Abby down. Thus a cycle of violence of death - Ellie kills Abby's friends, Abby kills Ellie's friends and so on. The moral dilemma is about when the two protagonist finally decides to let go. In the theatre fight, Abby becomes her better self after she was persuaded by Lev not to kill Ellie. At the Rattler's beach, Ellie was persuaded in her subconscious by Joel not to kill Abby.,,The story largely reflects upon the social dimension of indulging in hatred and the consequences that it engenders. In this regard, the game succeeded beyond expectations because the circumstances were so bleak and desperate that many players actually hated the game. The ending was very poignant and heartbreaking with Ellie losing everything because she failed to let go of her vendetta. We essentially loses the two leads that we have grown to love and care so much.,,The premise of the Part 2 storyline seemed improbable because in a world that is so vicious and inured to death, it is not likely that the characters esp. Ellie would have taken on the type of risks and vendetta that they did. The battles are really repetitive and in terms of character development, none of the factions (Jackson, Seraphite, WLF), or even the new infected feel refreshing or inspired.,,The storyline seemed to be born out of desperation to cling onto the franchise. As there is actually so much material to explore in the LoU world, it would have been better to focus on entirely new characters and different backgrounds.
1507) Joel's death is so sad.The game is good but the writing is so bad. Feel sorry for the engineering and artist.
1508) The only good thing about this game - the story is so bad, it makes it easy to pretend that it never happened.
1509) wow It is the worst game to ignore the user's opinion and manipulate the score. The story lacks probability and the more you play the game, the more unpleasant you feel.
1510) What a disgrace to the original. Absolutely shameless. It's like they let some 18 year old college kid "activist" try to write the script. Since the original came out in 2013 and it was rated 18 and wasn't really a game a kid would play, most of the potential customers would be in late 20's/30's. This game plays like an immature SJW's fever dream. Again look at the critics all giving it 100% of course, makes you wonder about gaming journalists; as if any of us trust them in this day and age.
1511) Storytelling was abysmal. The first game story was what made it great. This on the other hand did not have a great story. In my mind this game doesn’t exist.
1512) I always thought there shouldn't be a sequel. This one lacks respect for the first TLoU as it's far worse than I imagined. My main gripe is with the story, the attempt to try out a sympathy project at the expense of a beloved character, setting off a pointless revenge plot with a bleak theme and tone for the game was uncalled for and unnecessary. The flashbacks were worth the purchase but they angered me more as to what had happened. It also proved to me that TLoU is nothing without the father daughter dynamic that Joel and Ellie shared. As for the sympathy project, I see how they tried to reflect the first TLoU through Abby's story but it felt cheap and the revenge plot was triggered by such forced and lazy writing that I was literally left shocked and in disbelief. Ellie's story in the sequel was hollow like her character with one hundredth of the charm of her prequel self. Abby's story was better and I would've enjoyed it had this been another game. Humans are tribal beings and cannot be expected to feel the same way for every group. The ending was pathetic for not allowing options since a second play through could've made me choose differently even though I doubt it. This sympathy project bites off more than it can chew.
1513) Oh my god...........,How could you ruin The last of us?,You don't have to try this game.
1514) ND just threw an overload of free violence and tell us we are supposed to feel bad. I feel bad for half the studio who was shut down for speaking up against this piece of crap on the back of them being "anti-trans" when it was just about the scenario. And the way Sony forces reviewers to give it good score and silence the others is making me sick. It's funny that they were putting so much effort to be political correct and don't really care if the whole thing makes sense or not. This game is just some twisted fetish p*rn from neil druckmann.
1515) I didn't play The Last of Us 1, but I heard such good things about it that I watched the entire walkthrough of it and thought it was great. The characters were compelling. I decided to play The Last of Us 2. It has beautiful graphics but the combat is clunky, resource management is a bore. This game is truly a chore to play through. I won't go into the story elements that ruin this game, but they ruined this game. I didn't want to play passed the 2 hour mark but I slogged through hoping for an ending that was satisfying - only to be even more frustrated. This game deserves a zero - not because it on the whole is terrible - many elements are average or below average. No, this game deserves a zero because at the end of it, I felt I wasted 30 hours of my life. Not to mention Metacritic has been stopping people from posting negative reviews, so I'd be surprised if this one goes through.
1516) Mister Neil we hate what you have done with the story and the characters i really dont mind Abby but after what i have seen i dont care Joel killed her father he was just an npc in the first one i felt nothing then and i feel nothing now you let her kill one of the best characters in gaming and expect people to sympathize with her and at the end Ellie doesnt even get her revenge she just lets her walk away. I dont mind the represation of LGBT and the other stuff its the story thats bad that i dont like it that doesnt make me a homophobe or a transphobic  i am very pro for it but  i dont like your s***y story that doesnt mean that i hate trans people or homosexual people its the story thast s***t thats it learn the f***g difference
1517) Worst story ever!I watched 2 hours of gameplay from PewDiePie and i decided that this game doesn't deserve to be even bought at second hand.
1518) SO~~~~, one day a strange person kill your father, you decided to set out for revenge, finally, you found "him", you decided to let him go for no reason => 10... /1000
1519) The reason why this game is a trash game,,1. Stories without probability (PC seems important, but PC is sideways and story is trash),2. The arrogant art patient's twittering (you've seen avant-garde?),3. To deceive the countless fans who enjoyed the first episode. Only to gain one's own intellectual vanity.,,Recommendations for these people,,"I want to eat trash for 60 bucks.","I like avant-garde. Even if it's similar."
1520) The storyline is very  bad The first part was very fantastic Why did they make the storyline to stupid Why they let joe to die early
1521) one of the most pathetic games I ever played,and Neil you need some schooling on how to write a story.
1522) The garbage plot, the politics of garbage is correct, purely dung, it is not recommended to play with those who have independent thinking ability.
1523) Poor writing and politics shoulnt be in a Videogame. No emotional connection to Side characters like im the first Game with Bill and Henry or Sam. Just a Non sense Story with a bunch of Politics
1524) Technically this game is good. Not really groundbreaking in anything, but everything is nicely polished and packed. Gameplay is good, the game looks gorgeous. But that's something you expect from AAA game.,,But the most important part of Last of Us is story and at that, this sequel fails spectacularly. The story is boring, makes no sense in some places and the characters don't act like real human beings.,,You can praise the game for its technical qualities, but that's like watching porn for its story. People loved The Last of Us for its story and THE story is not here in the sequel.
1525) 垃圾驚 玩完可能精神失常 絕對唔建議舊作fans玩,簡單黎講 劇情仲廢過Metal Gear survive.,They played us like a damn fiddle!
1526) Sorry, but a good plot is everything to me. And there are rules of storytelling after all, if you didn't obviously know
1527) It's a pretty brilliant, but sometimes unfocused game. It's not a flawless game, but the highs are absurdly high.
1528) The game is good visually, but the plot is a very weak side of this game, gameplay is very tight and boring,,Story 0/10,Gameplay - 0/10,Graphics - 6/10 but game based on the plot should not be judged on graphics,,If you played the Part I then you definitely won’t like this game.
1529) This game destroyed the Last of Us. With all the sjw and feminism forcefully injected into the game. Last of us 2 is to make you suffer not enjoyment as the director indicates
1530) Sony and Naughty dog, especially Neil druckmann should be ashamed for using bots to increase the ratings. This is a complete joke of a game. The violence and the story delivers a very clique message that 'revenge solves nothing' at the expense of Ellie's character and the joy of the gamers. This is an insult to the first game and clearly these guys have no idea why we liked the first game.
1531) Symbolism: they kill Joel (a white man over 40) with the hands of a transgender. Is anyone familiar with "cultural Marxism"? Each time, the theory is more and more like reality. By the way, the graphics are good. (Used google translator).
1532) Imagine being the biggest simp and soy boy ever, fire a competent person that wrote the best games of your company and underpay your staff. Well, that's Neil Druckmann ladies and gentlemen. This game deserves a 0. The story's goal is to force an agenda, not to tell a story, and by that it deserves little to no recognition.
1533) Good graphics so we can see a failing studio in HD. Don't buy this garbage unless you like suffering
1534) the worst game of this generation, a epic fail story, a great deception , definitely  bad game, I cant recommend this. story-line are absurd and unsense.
1535) where to start... trailers lied. Joel isn't even in the game, really.,They made it look like Joel is part of the game. He isn't. They swapped for Joel in the trailers, it's actually other characters. You are left depressed after the first 2 hours of playing. "Someone" gets murdered, and then you're forced to play the murderer for 10 hours. The gameplay is identical to Part 1, and it's BORING. omg... "Rinse Repeat" all of 2 things: Sneak behind and stab, and shoot. Very VERY few environment puzzles. Extremely linear.  The characters are awful, depressing, their faces look like they smelled a fart all the time, no humor, and their actions go against the characters we know. That isn't Ellie. Or Joel, but he's not even really in the game. And the ending is the most meh, disappointing ending that makes you feel like you played something pointless.,,Also, metacritic has repordedly not been leaving your negative reviews, so don't believe that number. It's much lower. The postives aren't having any deleted though. So just be aware.
1536) Well I already finished the game and I have to tell graphics, animations and soundtrack 10/10 but the story... 1/10 or even 0/10...,,Stupid things that made me mad at this game:,- Joel deserved better but they made him so stupid to trust random strangers and give them his,name,- Golf club ? Really ? I wouldn't be mad if Joel would die at the end as a hero,- Ellie killing everyone in her path but at the end she has a **** vision that makes her let Abby go,,really ? Everything we've done goes to nothing, then she comes back and finds out she's all alone,now and she can't even play the guitar cause Abby bites off her fingers, so **** stupid,- ND false advertising, everyone knows what I'm talking about.,,I'm just gonna pretend this game doesn't exist and Joel's and Ellie's story finished at The Last of Us 1
1537) Absolutely a garbage "game", and I use the word "game" loosely. It's just something to push an agenda upon us and our kids and the game itself is void of any good "gameplay" merits.,Stay AWAY from such a **** product. For your own sake and your kids'.
1538) Just forget that this game once existed. That game destroyed the franchise I loved
1539) Why do you force me to play the character that I hate I don't care about Abby and her crews who killed my favourite character from beginning. Game-play and graphics are amazing but the story ruled it. You took off our beloved character in disrespectful way.,I played the last of us 1 for five years over and over and I have more connection with Joel and Ellie than that woman I don’t know who she is and I have to play her thought out second half of the game is terrible.
1540) After  playing for 10+ hours I'm sorely disappointed,,The experience is gut-wrenching
1541) Worst sequel ever. The story line is horrible and the characters are unlikable. Thanks a lot Naughty Dog
1542) Critics can't give the game a negative reviews for risk of being called intolerant, ignorant or homophobic.,Listen to the fans, they're the real last of Us.
1543) Total fail.So disappointing.The story is terrible,and when the story is terrible  the whole game loses everything.
1544) Pile of stinking garbage. Shooting is **** gameplay is old and **** story is just barely followable.... I could not finish it
1545) So the first game weaves a magnificent story and builds wonderful characters. Joel and Ellie's relationship was set up with limitless potential for the sequel.,Unfortunately that potential crashed and burned worse than the Hindenburg. The game has good graphics, gameplay but that's all for naught when the hero of the story is replaced by a character we barely know. It's like every possible decision was made to negate the 1st game. Truly dissatisfied and heartbroken.
1546) A disappointment. The story is garbage. Don´t waste your time in this game.
1547) I guess the entire community of ''Gaming Journalists'' are paid shills, this here is the confirmation.,This is truly the darkest timeline, i was about to gauge my eyes out at certain points of this joke of a game.,To think it was made by the same gaming studio that produced timeless classics such as the Crash bandicoot series, Jax and dexter, the Uncharted series and last but no least the first Last of us game.,Oh how the mighty have fallen.
1548) What an absolute trash plot. It's like a 3 year old wrote it, knew this game didn't need a sequel but still had faith in naughty dog. Garbage game, ruined the entire franchise
1549) Complete game in 31 hour on grounded,+ Awesome visuals,+ animations,+ music,+ technically this game is perfect,But,- Such a cheap plot,- faceless characters,- it's just boring,- annoying SJW propaganda
1550) Graphics and Game play are good but, Voice acting also good but.. story related for me ends with the 1st game.,Wish I could forget part 2...,,The story itself for me all ruined the game.,I understand the point there trying to show people, but even if I understand what they are trying to show people. I just hate the story.,,If at least the ending choice could have been decided by the players I don't think there would have been that much negativity.
1551) With This Game We know that What is happening to gaming Universe. We shame,beacuse the World is ruining morals. Please save world
1552) Unfortunely, i have waited 7 years for a story script really pior, that's a shame
1553) imma say only this. I dont care about abby. She can die in pain, along with her wolf friends.,I haven't finished the game yet, but i know that i will be playing roughly 12 HOURS WITH SOMEONE I DONT GIVE A SINGLE **** FURTHERMORE I CAN SAY I HATE HER FOR WHAT SHE DID and ubwant me to pleay as her? Hell nah boy.
1554) Imagine if you watch the Gordon Freeman died in a new Half Life series.,Imagine if you watch the Master Chief died in a new Halo series.,,What the hell is going on this company??,I still can't believe what I saw...,I've had never write reviews on this site before, but right now, I feel so much anger, so I've come here,to give this glorious ZERO score.
1555) I don't even need to explain it if you've played or watched any of the game you know how much is wrong with it, plot wise, gameplay wise, character wise and the message they're trying to send as well. It's like the Last Jedi all over again. Absolute garbage I'd rather watch Game of Thrones Season 8 every day for the rest of my life than play this game ever again.
1556) The game narrative is horrible, the political massage feels really forced and the character development make no sense and everything happens only for the plots sake.
1557) bought the game, played for 10 hours, returned and refund.  don't buy this game, if you want to buy, wait for $10 2nd hand, you will thank me later
1558) The controls are tolerable but outdated. The game is boring with too many hours to spend exploring  just to gather resources. The story is horrible with no redeeming value specially when compared to the first one. This game is the biggest disappointment of 2020.
1559) the history of this game was seriously disappointing, the game should not have followed its current course. Pay $ 60 to be disappointed, so I really feel like I'm losing money.
1560) Absolutely disgusting how the beloved characters, Joel and Ellie, are treated after their amazing adventure from part 1 in 2013. This is what the fans waited for?! Really!??,The beginning of the game plays out like the first episode of season 7 of the Walking Dead, where Joel is beaten to death with a golf club by a newly introduced villain named Abby. To make things worse, the game then forces you to play as Abby, a character you will hate. Ellie vows revenge against Abby, but she never gets it. The end of the game is one of the most pointless depressing endings I've ever had the displeasure of viewing.,It's clear that Naughty Dog had an agenda to push with this game. Specifically an "Anti-White male" agenda. This is something I will absolutely not support and I will no longer purchase any games from Naughty Dog. The director, Neil Druckman, will never live this game down and it will always come back to haunt him.
1561) I love narrative driven games. Love them.... I’m frequently telling everyone I know that Hollywood is done, and the real talent and stories are in gaming.,After all, just look at RDR, RDR2 and TLOU.,,I never wanted a sequel. I know from the get go, that to make it as emotional, they’d kill Joel. Which IMO was just bad, lazy writing, but I was sure that was what they’d do.,,I was expecting a John Marston/Arthur Morgan quality story of redemption... after all, this is Naughty Dog. They thrive in story telling, don’t they?,,Nope. No they do not.,TLOU2 takes one of them most cliched and overused plots of any bad B movie ever, and makes it into the main plot.,Then gives up any desire for character development or even trying to stay true to what we know about these characters And destroys them immediately.,The nice thing about TLOU was the subtle nod to Ellie being gay. Subtle being the main point... we didn’t need it rubbed in our faces, because Ellie was a great character, and so it didn’t matter what she was. It was barely a blip on the radar.,TLOU2 takes that subtlety and beats you round the head with it so badly, that any negative comments on this game automatically get you labelled as homophobic or transphobic.,,Neil. It’s great you want to support these communities, but leave your politics out of the damn game!,,As for Joel. I can deal with character death. I do t gave to like it, but given that the RDR games are 2 of the greatest ever made IMO, I can accept it if it serves the story.,,Joel’s death does NOTHING for the story. Nothing. The man who ran over someone in the last game just because he had a “feeling” something wasn’t right, willingly goes with a group of strangers and tells them everything. He then proceeds to be beaten to death in glorious HD by a woman. The daughter of the surgeon he killed in the first game (I did mention the plot was utter dog **** didn’t I?),,Not only are you then forced to play as the person who killed one of the most beloved characters in gaming for 10 hours, whilst we “learn” about her. Not only did I not want to know anything about her, what we did learn was boring and mundane cliched bull****.,,Then at the climax of a game all about revenge...and this game is pretty brutal. I’ve seen it described as torture porn - and that’s pretty accurate... you have your one chance of revenge taken away from you.,,Because revenge is bad people...
1562) Script: Progressive panfletarian garbage.,They already mention the word "Bigot" at minute 10.,Not only do they kill the main character at first, but they make you play to "empathize" with an unclean character who didn't even have a really powerful motive for killing Joel. And you have to see when it is f%%&ed.,UNPLEASANT!,Abby's father wanted to kill Ellie, Joel had the right to blow her head off.,Not only that ... Joel saves Abby's life in the bars against the zombies and pays him by blowing his leg off with a shotgun. Complete garbage.,And finally, the player can't even take revenge on that nasty character by playing with Ellie.,Playable appearance and aesthetics: Normal, it has some bugs, but the graphics are fine.,,The game is a play manufactured to purposely break Naughty Dog.,Never buy a game from this company again. Naughty Dog is dead.
1563) Worst story ever. Good graphics are worth nothing with a story like that. Have no words to describe the frustration of waiting 7 years for that. The only reason it is selling well is because of the first game.
1564) Neil Druckman is a megalomaniac desperate to work in Hollywood. He wants so bad to be Ken Levine, but his lack of talent and excessive wokeness won't help, this piece of filth here being his "masterpiece". He's been piggybacking off of talented artists and writers, but when those leave, this embarrassing failure is what's left. The whole clump of political agendas forcefully shoved into his product leave it a soulless and empty husk. The gore and unnecessary violence is there just to try and bring in the immature audience that are still being shocked/attracted by that. The user scores show that the game isn't really attracting many customers though
1565) A piece of garbage. The story makes no sense and could not be written by anyone who has a little sense of logic and human emotion. I don't think it serves any other purpose than making the fanbase  feel wanna vomit and disguised. We all know how cautious and smart Joel is from TLOU1, here he straight up tells a group of strangers his real name? Excuse me???? OK, I think it needs a little bit explanation why Joel has become a IQ nagative 100 guy in this game. Another thing, Abby killed Joel right after he saved her life --- with no hesitation? That does count as something right? The way he was killed is unnecessarily cruel. Really cheap shock value. Then the game doesn't stop going wose, and Abby is like "Yeah, I murdered Joel like a puppy, come and get me! NO F YOU, you don't get to do anything to me cuz the genius writer will make you spare me for whatever ****** reason only pickles would understand. Bonus, you have to play as me ^^" why the heck would I want to play as her? Oh, two sides of character? Sorry I'm good, if there's any sophistication in the characters in TLOUS2, it's because the story is so poorly written, and nothing in the game progression makes any sense.  The guy who leaked the story is a hero, he was trying to save you 60 bucks.,,Overall, TLOUS2 is a solid 0/10 for me. Although it's a decent game in all the other aspects, it was supposed to be the sequel of TLOUS. Its hostile disrespect towards the previous game disguises me to an immeasurable extend. Even a 0.1/10 is no no from me.
1566) why it has to be forced? why? in left behind it was justified but here; you are in the end of the world for god sake and that's more important? in what world is this mature? yelling to the olders is mature? insulting is mature? why? the premise was amazing even for abby, but why ellie didn't progress or if this is progress why in this way? why you force to this is something mature?
1567) Story is NOT GOOD. If you were even a little invested in the characters from the first game, don’t bother buying this. Not worth.
1568) So keeping players waiting for so many years and finally you gave us such a "masterpiece", thank you, Neil Druckman and Great work ,IGNs.
1569) Boring new characters. Improbably changed old ones. Boring gameplay. An ending that doesn't give satisfaction
1570) So incredibly disappointed with the story of this game and how they completely kill off one of the most beloved and important characters from the first game in just about 2 hours all the while they force me to play a character that I now deeply hate with all my heart for half the damn game. And the ending is nothing short of a joke where once you finish it, you wish the game never existed to begin. Yikes.
1571) Critics are useless. Nobody should ever listen to them ever again, they've proven to me that they are not to be trusted. on to the review:,Graphics... That's the only good thing about this. Everything else is either mediocre or down right awful. The game play did not evolve one bit since 2013. It's still a walking simulator that's more a movie than a game, which would be enjoyable if it had a good story but God damn is it bad. The story simply broke my heart and not in the good way. It's like a spit in the face of the entire fan base. It's like the worst fan fiction you could possibly find. Seriously? This is what you came up after 7 years? Did Twitter write this game? It's full of plot holes and the characters you fell in love with in the first game are completely ruined and you are forced to play with the character that ruined them. I don't mind the woke stuff but when so much of it is obviously forced down your throat it feels like the entire game was built around it so if people don't like it you can pull the victim card and say that they are ists and phobes and whatever. And the director to preach so much about sexualising women in games is bad only than to put that Abby scene in the game? I can't unsee that. WTF were you thinking? I'd rather watch 2 girls one cup on repeat while eating. Let me tell you a little secret western game devs. People are playing games for entertainment and they'd rather see pretty things while doing it than ugl.. excuse me FUGLY ones! This is never going to change. How is sexualising men was never an issue? People don't like to be preached to and to be told what to think. In a video game setting, that choice should be always ours.,Overall, I don't recommend this, especially if you were a fan of the previous one. maybe buy it when it's on a massive sale.
1572) The story is so **** ridiculous, how the f****k could joel became so unguarded so drastically? I believe in forgiveness and consider a socialist myself, but this story didn't feel consistent, forcing me to play 10 hours as somebody I hated and forgave her, that ending was some real far left BS.
1573) Seriously, critics?! Seriously, critics?! Seriously, guys?! 10/10!? This game is a disappointment I thought will never happen. This game has disadvantages, very big disadvantages. The first half of the game is ok, the second half is a freaking torture. It should not be like this.
1574) The game is boring. The writing is terrible and lazy. This is the videogame equivalent of a shart. I don't mind all the LGBT themes. The first game had a DLC which included those themes but was not terrible like this sequel.,,As far as I'm concerned Part II is not canon.
1575) The plot is idiotic... don't spend your money on this.. eating KFC is better for your health than this!!
1576) I couldn’t finish a video game that I started, first time! Learn my lesson, must see the review first if I ever buy another naughty dog game.
1577) This is a revenge story......... without the revenge, comeback, action or satisfaction I was hoping for my favorite character to get. Graphics are 10/10, but when your game bugs and glitches non-stop then graphics = 0/10. Message to naughty dog, stop trying to be you, be like someone better than you cause this game is ****
1578) first time I expected this game but,it disappointed me,graphic is good also,gameplay is very good,but story is terrible
1579) It would have been game of the year for sure. But this game proves that a bad story can destroy a game no matter how good graphics it has. I feel like I've wasted hours of my life for nothing, i couldn't even bond with some characters cause the game already told me they where dead before i got to bond with them. Keep your money fellas better donate them to a charity.
1580) This game is perfect for you if you don't care about the story and the characters, for me this is  the worst story I have ever see . I wish Neil Druckmann wouldn't interferes with the writing ever. I feel sad for those who brought it thinking of a great story .
1581) Sorry but the storyline is in relation to Part 1 .. not the same. Its so random in some corners. The feeling of Part 1 was a few times more intense and im sorry that i must say, that im not Happy with the existence of Part 2. If Part 1 stands alone, it would be a way better story.
1582) TLOU2 is a perfect example of an overly cocky studio trying to be woke.,,I at first thought their take on violence was very intuitive and new,but after completing the game I have to say that in theory it is great but poor in execution.,,Because of their grueling take on violence the entire game is just grey and dark and frankly not fun to play.,,The first game was the same but what drove you and gave you hope was the father daughter relationship of Joel and Ellie.,,That very relationship that drove and was the silver lining midst the horrible world of The Last of Us,was stripped away from us in the first two hours of the game.,,The real problem was the way they did it.,,Spitting on Joel´s corpse just seemed like Naughty dog were angry at the character and just wanted him gone.,,Then even worse you NEED to spend at least 10 hours playing as Abby,Joel`s murderer.,,You are supposed to understand and sympathize with her because Joel was the "real" monster.,,She killed him after he saved her.,,Not to mention how stupid they made Joel and Tommy,in the first game they were both super cautious and could spot an ambush from a mile away,and now when they are older and wiser they just gave out their real names to complete strangers.,,Throughout the game Ellie kills every person that was in the room when Joel was killed EXCEPT THE ACTUAL PERSON THAT DID THE KILLING.,,The writing is sloppy at best,character motives are non existent and it is JUST A BAD STORY.,,Now the game play is great,the music,the level building the graphics all beautiful.,,Most journalists  are trying to pin the hate of this game to gamers being ant-trans or anti-LGBTQ when that could not be further from the truth.,,Look at The Last Of Us:Left behind DLC or at Life is Strange.,,Fans simply feel betrayed, the thing that made the first game so good, destroyed in the first two hours of the game.,,RIP The Last Of Us,you deserved better.
1583) Thanks for killing one of the most beloved characters in a video game for your own ego, Druckmann.
1584) Story garbage !!!,Shame of you !!!,Don't be a liar !!!,A game make people angry and disgusting,What the XXX are you doing?,Are you lose your mind?,Give you 0 point ,don't thank me!!!
1585) recycled gameplay, a horrible script and the worst antagonist,7 years to bring this crap ... what a disappointment
1586) I loved the first game, and i played it  6 times and got al the trophies. I am very mad because they clearly changed the story (cause in the trailer Joel is the one who appears in the cinema area saying that he won't let her do this alone, and not Jesse. I feel i was lied to) The gameplay is better but  the story is horrible. Even if i had tried i couldn't have destroyed the story that bad.
1587) This cant be the story of part 2. The story of 1 is the soul of it. The story of Part 1 show love under reality and everything is reasonable. But part 2 is just some unrealistic story with every choice unreasonable. It is ok to show some special meaning to players by story. But the story need to be strong and  player can get something by the story. Part 2 only want to show something to player by hard, and by distorted story and characters. It can be some story of some other game. But can NEVER be the part 2 of the last of us.
1588) Sony and Naughty Dog have made every effort to politicize this game to create the false controversy to force a certain group of individuals to defend their lack-luster game. Don't be a fool, avoid this game.
1589) I do enjoy my time with those friends who are LGBTs, they are really important part of my life. So I will score   0 to this game just because of  unreasonable story rather than you so called " prejudice and discrimination to LGBT" blah blah blah.,,New dog doesnt show any respect to those truly faithful fans of  The Last of Us,  farewell Noob director
1590) Too disappointing, the only good thing about the game is its music, it **** up the story and they force you to hurt a character you don't want, even making it playable, they focused on the "politically correct" and spoiled a wonderful game.
1591) I get Joel having to die. But making us play as the murderer immediately after is a spit to the face. And then finally once were back as ellie and spend our entire time upgrading, collecting cards, and getting through the wolves, you spit in our faces again by making us play as Abby AGAIN after killing Jesse for 8 **** hours and then fight ellie as a BOSS and kick her ass? Not worth finishing, ive heard the ending is super bad too. You dropped the ball to me a statement. I hope youre happy with what you've done to this series.
1592) This game legitimately made me break my controller, this is the worst game I've ever played period.
1593) What happened with the director and the writers, I'm so disappointed, I waited so long for this game and now this
1594) I am giving this game a 0 because of the lies told by Naughty Dog. This company manipulated their fan base and lied in order to sell copies of their game. They altered trailers to trick us into thinking we we’re going to be playing alongside Joel throughout the game, making him look younger. I understand that companies sometimes have trailers that are misleading but not outright lie to their fan base about you playing a character that actually dies in the first three hours of the game. Neil Druckmann also lied to us saying that Ellie will be the only playable character when in fact 50% of the game you are playing Abby. We don’t care that you kill off a beloved character, we care HOW you do it. Unfortunately, Neil got too into his head thinking he could do no wrong that he drove his beautiful story into the ground.
1595) I can't believe grown adults wrote this story. Also Ellie ended up not killing Abby.
1596) Completely ruins the first games story. Forces you to play as a character you hate for most of the game. Completely unsatisfying ending. Please save your money.
1597) This game is a disrespect to the character that you learn to care for in the first TLoU . They turn joel into a spineless Char . The gameplay is weak and repetitive and plot of the story is weak and distasteful . Save your money from this trashy game .
1598) I loved the first part. I had to force me to play throughthis game! the graphics are fantastatic. The story is terrible, the behaviour of the persons does not make any sense. the characters are uninteresting suddenly and not likeable. There are just twist to have twist and shock moments to have shock moments. the gamplay is not improved, Enemy AI is terrible!
1599) Just like with George Lucas and his prequel trilogy, Neil Druckmann has clearly reached a point in his career where everyone around him is quite simply afraid to tell him when he has a bad idea. There's even an anecdote that he himself tells about firing a tester who disagreed with him. Naughty Dog is no longer a scrappy underdog making a name for themselves by delivering fan favorites, it's a corporate behemoth that fuels itself on the misery of its own employees and tells fans what they want instead of giving them what they asked for.
1600) The game has a lot of mediocre parts but not a lot of really parts and it also has a lot of bad parts and the story is really dragged out.
1601) I waited so long and what did I get... a boring revenge story.,Compared to the first last of us, this is absolute trash
1602) Graphics/Visuals/Sounds: 10/10,Gameplay/Controls: 7/10- could've been improved but the same controls of the first,Story: 0/10: literally contradicts a couple of important things from the first game to fit SJW Propaganda,Wouldn't buy it. Save your money
1603) This had all of the makings of a great game, amazing graphics and scenery...check, challenging gameplay...check, infected things trying to kill you...check, vicious face attacking dogs....check and lesbians....heck yeah!!! To spend so much time only to spend the next 12 hours as Abby is criminal, you have ruined this game for me and now on the shelf it sits...does anyone want a discount Ellie edition?  The story as a whole is lazy...just plain lazy and the dialog often seems just thrown together.  I did not have the same passion for this game as I did the first one.  The last of us PART 1 is still the best game ever made...this one is better off rented or purchased on the discount shelf for ten dollars or less.
1604) This is what happens when you put themes and hidden meanings above the plot; you get a bad story. This is a byproduct of a developer thinking of themselves as an “artist” and that everything they do is “art”. The story is terrible and it ruins the legacy of the first game, just because Druckmann had to stroke his giant ego because he thinks no one loves the characters as much as he does, which is arrogant and insulting to the fans. The execution of Joel’s death was the most pathetic, shock value writing I have ever witnessed even though I was expecting Joel to die. Every character is utterly bland and uninteresting. Naughty Dog sacrificed the character development of Ellie and Dina for Abby and her friends, who everyone hates. Playing as Abby feels like a forced attempt to make us like her, an irredeemable character. Everyone bought this game because they thought they would be playing as Ellie and it would be her story. If I had known half the game would be Abby’s, I would not have bought the game. I don’t know why a game company would sabotage their own game like this. I would rate it more than a 0 because of the graphics and sound quality, but in 2020, every game has great graphics and sound design. What made The Last of Us II the most anticipated game of the generation was the story, which it hopelessly failed to tell.
1605) This game is an absolute **** show of a convoluted mess.  Plot hole after plot hole, with no choices to be made that gives a cathartic release.  It actually punishes the player for playing.
1606) Exhausted... terrible exhausted... very very exhausting ... I never plan to play this game again... I just wanted to finish
1607) This game makes you hate every character you play as. Also it has a lot of stupid AI and boring gameplay. Would not spend a dime on this.
1608) this game really breaks my heart after they killed off one of my favorite beloved character named Joel.  And to pour salt on the wound ... I have to play as the murderer , that is unforgivable.. No .. No.. No. Unforgivable.  I will never play another naughty dog games again.
1609) Having completed a full playthrough of the game, I'd advise you not to waste your money. Cringey dialogue, lazy writing, no payoff. There's no silver lining. No levity. The one message the game has is "violence and revenge bad" and it beats you over the head with it repeatedly, like you're a mentally challenged toddler, while pretending to be deep. The game does its very best to make you feel like a piece of **** for doing the things it forces you to do. The sounds people and animals make as you viciously beat, stab, hack, or shoot them are horribly realistic and drawn out. Your enemies' companions and the owners of the dogs you're forced to brutalize cry out in horrified, despairing anguish at their deaths. and in the end, it snatches the only possible motivation any sane person could have had for continuing to play the game after Joel's death out from under you at the very last second and just leaves you feeling disgusted and depressed. Neil Druckmann has beaten this franchise to death with a golf club and spit on its mangled corpse.,,I made this account solely to tell you how much I despise what was done to this game. This is the first time I've ever bothered to review a game, that's how pissed off this piece of trash made me.,,Save your money.
1610) The story of this game have forced inclusion, spit on the first game (like they spit on Joel), im ps4 user and i've played this game. I dont regret, but i don play it anymore
1611) this game was expected for years, but in the end it was a horrible game ... Good graphics, but a bad story, made to please the "Slayers" fans, or as we can say, the Boring fans who complain that such a character is not a lesbian and etc. DO NOT BUY the game, you will regret it
1612) The last of us 2 would be interesting if the game would not have been spoiled and the story was trash from the leaks
1613) A well decorated piece of ****,It looks beautiful. It sounds beautiful. But still, it's just a piece of ****,Congratulation, Neil Druckman, you successfully ruined one of the best game developer in the world.,From now,naughty dog will never be my choice, again.
1614) The game is nothing like part 1, it isn't even a game but a movie and you just go along for a badly written story. This game is blasted agendas and agendas don't belong in games.
1615) good graphics mechanics and gameplay, but tlou is about the story, and in this game is super cringy and pathetic. Naughty dog made wrong decisions here.
1616) Yes, I put up with the Abby story and finished the game. The Abby part was great, but it still didn't change the SHET ending.Stop telling people who haven't finished the game to get out of here, you're like forcing someone who's allergic to SHET to eat all the SHET on the table before he gives a comment.Just because someone can't take it anymore doesn't mean they're not player anymore.
1617) The gameplay and graphics are quite good.  But this game is all about story, and it sucks, it really sucks.
1618) How this game took 7 years to be released and be son disapointing, is not worth it $60 dollars, pff
1619) The story went to **** I don't know what the **** the developers were thinking, if they did it just to be in 2020 and give lessons about morality and ethics and **** that revenge is bad, they ****ed up completely
1620) All kinds of unreasonable and deliberately politically correct concepts that insult players and previous games,
1621) completely lied to by naughty dog in terms of advertisment and character development. almost all of the beloved characters acted completely out of character and got killed for actions they never would have made, making the deaths seem dry and forced. not to mention the countless lies told by Neil himself about how the team only care about Joel and Ellie and that they hold them dear, then had him killed off in a way in which he deserved better and had his corpse spat on :) wouldn't given it a 4/10 as the gameplay was good but naughty dog decided to use bots to leave good reviews and lie once again to the public
1622) The story is absolutely trash，this kind of forced ending for the game this theme shows the idiotic ignorance the producer has. What a disappointment! Shame on you Neil.
1623) Neil shows how to waste a grate game. TLOU2 is close to the perfection, but the story... Is the worst story I've ever played, is so bad that throws away an entire saga.
1624) Pros: improved gameplay,Cons: Terrible story, misguiding trailers.,,WTF naughty dog!?
1625) Don't play this. Don't watch gameplay videos on YouTube. Don't believe critics' reviews. Erase this game on your head, and just accept there isn't The Last Of Us Part II.
1626) The gameplay was great but my God what the **** was that story!?! Just awful! Why am I being forced to care and play as a character for over 12-15 hours who has zero personality and who basically kills your father. Does the game deserve a zero? Gameplay wise no, story? Yes, it was that bad. Just made playing the game not worth it. Could have did so much better. Very very disappointing
1627) Boring and pointless,You cant kill joel! Joel is the last of us!!!!!!!!!!!!
1628) 8 for graphic,5 for gameplay,0 for story,,So I give this a 4/10,,The story is a piece of **** I don't want to play Abby.
1629) killing a character they built the first game around and forcing you to do things like kill dogs along with the story they stole from a 4 year old
1630) Dude. Joel's sense of cautiousness from the first game was gone. He deserved better.
1631) I thought it would be amazing game but it isn't. The worst plot ever. I am so sad.
1632) Spoilers. This game is probably one of the worst stories I have ever experienced. Honestly I am so disappointed with naughty dog and I just wish this game never existed in the first place. First of all, there was absolutely no need for a sequel because the game should have just ended with Ellie and Joel arriving at Jackson. If they really wanted to make a sequel then they should have just made a DLC where they don't kill Joel like its nothing and make a completely new character which shows up out of nowhere. The thing that makes the game so bad isn't just the fact that they killed Joel but the fact that they made Ellie dislike him because he tried to save a childs life. Why would you make her dislike him when shes too young to even decide for herself? Whats even worse is that naughty dog puts 8 hours of gameplay with Abby, the character that shouldn't have even existed and that is utterly despised for murdering Joel. I find this part truly disgusting because they tried to make us have sympathy for her? Why the **** would you do that naughty dog? This part of the game just makes me hate her more and makes me feel 0 sympathy towards her. I honestly wish someone questioned Neil Druckmann when he was making up this story, if he was actually sane at the time of creating the storyline. Lastly I beg you not to play this game if you wish to continue liking the last of us franchise because the sequel ruined it for me. Thank you naughty dog for ruining a game that was amazing.
1633) First then kill the main character after 2 hours then they take you the revenge at the end. The devs are making all wrong you can make wrong in a second part of a great predecessor. So a bull* of storytelling.
1634) Worst story ever and Abbey is sooooo dumb. You don't even get to kill her in the end. All that for nothing
1635) Lazy written, characters going agains their plot core and personalities. An insult to the first entry.
1636) Omg, worst game ever.,,What can you expect from a game, where its creator creates a virtual avatar in the game and spits literally on the face of the main character, then has sex with another, who is more twisted than that, but let's talk about the game, sweetie No story, kill more than a thousand people without remorse and suddenly in the end you spare the life of the person who killed your father in front of you, stupid, this game is so, so bad and boring, that my God, almost took me away the desire to play video games, but come on, what can you expect again from a producer who said that he no longer defines video games with the word fun, well, I think so, no more buying something from this company never again.
1637) Casual review,I didn't play the first one. I played the first 2 hours and got kinda bored. Looks great from a technical stand point but not for me in terms of the boring game play loop and the boring from what i've played . I should have saved the 60 for ghost of tsushima
1638) This story is terrible and focuses too much on the wrong characters that no one cares about. Like it all you want, people wasted their time waiting years for this game.
1639) About a hate - it is completely justified. Of course, there is a concept that the creator can do with his creation whatever he wants. But on the other hand, when a franchise has a large fan base, it is completely dependent on the love of its fans (Star Trek, Star Wars, Mass Effect, The Witcher, etc.). And this case shows a direct example of this because you can't just take it and **** on the opinion of your main audience - and after all, this, say: "eat it or leave it".,The game has a lot of silver linings in it: gameplay, atmosphere, graphics, cinematography - that's all on the top level.,But the story - is just a horrible roller coaster of not bad and complete **** moments, which you want to forget right after seeing.,By scoring the game you just got to answer on one question to yourself - "what would you get when you marsh up together **** and honey?"
1640) Storyline absolutely rubbish! Disgrace! Never purchase Neil Druckman’s game anymore!
1641) I respect LGBT. However, this game keeps storytelling very poor for fans who like Joel and Ellie until the end of the game. There are great graphics, great sound effects, and enthusiastic voice actors acting, but again, the Last of us series is never expected.
1642) I really can’t think of a way they could’ve made the story worse. I understand the approach they were going for with the revenge driven story but it was just very poorly executed.
1643) Its a mediocre game.,Its a **** revenge story. Basic gameplay that makes no improvements from the first game. Terrible ending.
1644) What a disappointment, i'm not even trying to consider to play it again,sucks!
1645) they didn't take time to make a good story, i won't take time to write a good review. The score is purely for their Graphics, Music (which feels like a toned down version of the first one) and level design, all the rest is just pure deception. Imma head back to a good Sequel. RDR2.
1646) This game wants to understand that revenge will only bring emptiness,But they failed,Most people only feel sick and inexplicable,There are too many memories interspersed in the process to make the plot broken,The last plot is not persuasive,The player is unable to understand the character's idea
1647) I love to play the last of us, but I hate the last of us 2. I would like to pretend that tlou 2 never exist.
1648) The graphic is impressive, which looks like what a 3A game should be like in 2020,But the plot is ridiculous, illogical and hurts fan's heart.
1649) The story is not coherent with the first part. Because Joel doesn't trust in anyone. Then his death is very stupid. And Ellie, she loves him... in the first part she can murder anyone to protect Joel. For me, this story is not coherent.,,Also, in the trailers viewed for this game... Joel hads more participation than the real version. That's misleading adverstising.
1650) A complete waste of time of a game that completely betrays all of the moral ambiguity of the first game in favor of a poorly made revenge story that doesn't even follow through on the final goal. with Gameplay that barely even changes anything from a 7 year old game, and you have a game that didn't need to be made. And to the people and bots that are trying to boost the user score up, you are just as pathetic as the bots that don't have anything to say in the negatives, either.
1651) great visual, touching music, still can't match up with a bad storytelling and writting.
1652) The truth is I have a feeling of deep sadness with this game, its technical section is fine, it is according to the demands of the end of the generation, to be honest I do not see many profound changes compared to the 1st, it is not a God of War or a Red Dead that they are masterful but not bad, the point goes for their history, for this political touch and that forced inclusion; In the first we knew everything about Ellie and the truth did not matter, it was natural, Rilley was everything she knew and it was normal for him to love her, here they tell me that the daughter of a character x becomes trans, yes trans in a world in which you suffer to eat a person almost changes their sex, breaking with all the logic of the world, the problem is and is not that character, I have nothing against that community, but if it bothers me when they are used as a propaganda of the PC, the truth is that the game defies its logic, it kills the character we wanted to see; The TLOU was the story of a father to whom the world takes away everything and who later steals something from the world, then knows that his decision condemns him to lose after all, but no, here we throw a pointless argument telling those who We wait this for years, look, we don't care, it is better to have certain groups happy that they are not even going to buy the title but this way we look better; This is why my 0 goes, because the game does not give me anything, just tremendous nausea. When God of War came out or was afraid to see what they had done with Kratos, fatherhood was not for him, now I see that I grew up with him, too bad that TLOU P2 did not grow with us, he just wanted to please those who are not his public unfortunate ...,,La verdad tengo una sensación de tristeza profunda con este juego, su apartado técnico está bien, es acorde a las exigencias de final de generación, para ser honesto no veo muchos cambios profundos respecto a primero, no es  un God of War o un Red Dead que sí son magistrales pero no está mal, el punto va por su historia, por este toque político y esa inclusión forzada; en el primero sabíamos todo lo de Ellie y la verdad no importaba, era natural, Rilley era todo lo que ella conocía y era normal que la amara, aquí me dicen que la hija de un personaje x se hace trans, sí trans en un mundo en el que se sufre para comer una persona se cambia casi de sexo rompiendo con toda la lógica del mundo planteado, el problema es y no es ese personaje, no tengo nada en contra de esa comunidad, pero si me molesta cuando se usan como una propaganda de lo PC, la verdad el juego desafía su lógica, mata al personaje que queríamos ver; el TLOU era la historia de un padre al que el mundo le quita todo y que el después le roba algo al mundo, luego sabe que su decisión lo condena a perder después de todo, pero no, aquí tiremos un argumento sin sentido diciéndole a quienes esperamos esto por años, miren, ustedes no nos importan, es mejor tener felices a ciertos grupos que ni van a comprar el titulo pero así nos vemos mejores; es por esto que va mi 0, porque el juego no me da nada, solo unas nauseas tremendas. Cuando God of War sali´´o tenía miedo de ver qué habían hecho con Kratos, la paternidad no era para él, ahora veo que crecí con el, lastima que TLOU P2 no creció con nosotros, solo quiso complacer a quienes ni son su publico, lamentable...
1653) Forced characters, the story is rubbish, very disappointing, lesbians, muscular woman in a world where resources are scarce, kill the favorite character and worst of all ... not complete revenge.
1654) Wow this game is awful. A politically correct piece of garbage that strays so far from the original is sad.
1655) "The last of us" finished in the first episode.,No more making plastic trash for Earth.
1656) neil ruined this series. he is a very bad writer.  I can accept Joel's death , I have predicted  this result. But I can not imagine that Neil used so a very naive even trash way to get this result. I do not know whether Neil played PART I BEFORE. But he wrote  partII like a 5-6yo kid writing HW. He did not consider any connection between Part I AND PART ii
1657) When we rate a game 10/10, it doesn't mean the game is perfect. It means that it is one of the best games of its time, and we want as many similar games as possible. On the other hand, when we rate TLOU2 0/10, it doesn't mean the game has no merit. It means that it disappoints so many fans that have waited 7 years for it to come out. This game is a true tragedy for the already waning single player gaming industry. Please, don't make anymore games like this.
1658) I love the first one, one of the best game ever. The best things about it were story and characters. And the sequel destroyed everything i love about the first game. So heartbreaking i cant except it.,The Last of Us Part II is still an ok game if you only care about gameplay,
1659) It's just bad, go use your money on something more useful than this garbage sjw bs
1660) When you write a story to push a certain agenda, the story will suffer. When you don’t listen to the fans, the fans won’t like the game. Sad to see how this turned out. Won’t recommend.
1661) Why Abby? Can someone please tell my why they thought she would be a good idea...
1662) This is not must play game,They should keep it for themselves and  not even for sale,because they designed only right on their own mind.
1663) To be honest I didnt expected much of this sequel and I am still dissapointed. If we are talking talking about graphics, music or cutscenes, they are all pretty solid. BUT TLOU2, in every other way, is worse than a **** Storytelling is afwully done and the story itself is even worse. I dont care about Joels death or that Ellie is lesbian, i really couldnt care less about that. Every new character in this game is so forgetible that after finishing the game I dont even know any of those new names.,it is like this: You kill some guy, then after 10 hours of playing, the game puts some backstory about that character and now you are supposed fo feel bad.
1664) Disappointment, lies, manipulation, gross, disturbing, sad, revenge, bad, mean, heartless... these are all words i have used and keep using when thinking/talking about this game.,,Lying to the fans making them not only think JOEL is part of this game in a big way but LYING and Niel D actually saying ELLIE was the only PLAYABLE character in a interview, lie lie lie,,BUT non of that is this game its the lies about a game that doesnt exist, in this game you spend hours playing  horrible manchick (no not trans just a woman with HUGE arms, manly body and face) and you have to play 10+ hours of her AFTER she violently kills JOEL, you spend most the game doing things like this, Horrible story telling and decisions forcing gameplay that is just cringe, constant gut punch after gut punch, non stop violence in the worst way with NO REDEMTION for any of these awful character, and forget your favs , Joel gets killed right away Ellie is totally different and is a sad sad mess.,,For an interactive movie i rate it like a movie and this is a "F-" in every way that matters (no the excellent graphics don't factor into a interactive movie "press square" is not game play its quicktime events, and graphics don't tell a story, bad good great doesn't effect the story line just like a pretty movie that is miserable to watch ex- A.I. artificial intelligence, all Jurrasic parks after the original,all reboot movies that claim to be sequals.... )
1665) I am not hear to bash the game or indeed elevate it because I am on any side but i'll leave this here.,,The game is not so terrible it really isn't, sure some things in the story just don't seem to add up but I guess I can forgive that. The issues however are many and I will try to explain.,,Graphics: yes they seem nice especially the outside visuals of landscapes but faces at times seem utterly weird and not in keeping with the rest of the game. When I see people say the graphics are 10/10 i just laugh because there are some really poor ones.,,Gameplay: It is I am afraid to say quite dated in the way it works but the worst thing is the jump system which seems to fail for no reason and they even include a easy jump version in the controls. This should tell you that they knew it was bad but decided to do nothing about that.,The game had some very boring parts in my humble opinion and just seemed to be there to stretch the game out.,,Sound: Very nice and I cant say too much negative about it,,All in all not a bad game but a disappointment none the less, If ND wanted to make a political statement they should have done so via twitter because some of this stuff does not need to be in games. Woke culture is bleeding into too much stuff these days. The way ND and Sony handled the leak was terrible but that does not effect my score at all.
1666) waited 7years for this bad ending , mediocre gameplay. New forced character thats nobody cares about.
1667) this game is an absulote insult to fans that have anticipating this game for so long. i cannot even begin on how disappointing this game is. my friend describes TLOU2 as "eating a very beautiful looking cake that tastes like literal garbage". i hate it, i hate everything what this game is about. it felt like a stab in the chest when i finished the game. so dumb.
1668) The game play hasn't improved at all since last gen, and the story is a hot train wreck. This is a perfect example of why you should still use the word "fun" when making a game.
1669) The worst story ever first and plz keep poltic out of this game anykind of it
1670) Gameplay-wise the game is pretty good, overall it is pretty close. to the gameplay of the first game, there are some new mechanics, but nothing game-changing as far. as I can tell.,Graphics is also ok.It is not a breakthrough in terms of graphics, it is neither better, nor worse than in many other titles released this and last year.,The plot is a total joke. Had I wanted to purposely ruin a franchise I wouldn't have done it any better. In the first game we had powerful development of dynamics between Joel and Ellie, development that led to choices and decisions Joel had to make in the finale of the first game, the second part is basically a tactical survival shooter without any likeable characters, without inter-characters dynamics etc.
1671) 2020 brought us the pandemic. Naughty dog the las  of us 2. Dont please dont waste you time and money. This game is pure garbage.
1672) The only reason i dont give it 0, its because i respect the developers that worked hard for the game, but the story is just completely **** independently of political views and anything, they just didnt think it through at all, they dropped a monkey on a writing board and this game is the result of it
1673) The worst story i've ever seen in a video game, the graphics are the only good thing about this game.
1674) Naughty Dog lied to us. The final game is very different from the E3 2019 trailer. This is unforgivable.
1675) how stupid game! I hate a horrer game. because I am very scary of all horrer media. but player review was aware of this game for me. and i know that it is sucks! Naughty Dog give ours making a villian by force. we are not villain. and this CD ROM File makes me crazy. and then I heard someone was manipulating user scores. this is a big problem about ours. what the hell's going on this situation. we know revenge is very wrong behavior. but Naughty Dog want to make player villain. Dog make joel and ellie a villain too. but we are not villain. joel and ellie are not villain too. Dog want to make a player evil person. but we are not evil.,,ironically, abby has all her's anything. but ellie hasn't. abby was kill all her's enemy.   and she has many colleague. but ellie hasn't. so we are know that onething about simple truth.,,We must have A REVENGE!. abby has revenge all her's enemy. but ellie wasn't. This game show ours that  OUR LIFE  MUST HAVE REVENGE!! what the **** game scenario.,,I caution about the world's game players. save your money. and please Don't PLAY this at home.
1676) Poor story , how they kill the main character , Also unnecessary killing  a dog , Really bad physical body build of abby
1677) I vote against this game with my opinion and my wallet. games - a place where a person rests, games - a place where the whole family gathers, the opinion indicated by a concerned group of developers remains in game. You immortalized what you can show my children in the game. I perpetuated my opinion of you here. Give me back my money spent for this (censorship). The games are played by the majority and not the minority. Catch the opinion of the majority, moth(censorship)rs.
1678) This game is absolute Garbage. Its nonsense and not good. The first one was great and then they added nothing but bS. Nobody should ever purchase this crop.
1679) Pretend can't be real. If game try to show the best of itself, it can be great masterpiece but if game pretend itself as a art-house movie it cannot be not only art-house movie but also great game.
1680) Rarely can a game's ending be anymore dissatisfying as this one! It really build a villain up, that you love to hate, and then blew it by leaving the player with a really bad ending. No closure and a bad storyline.
1681) This review contains spoilers. literally what is going on with this game lmao. why is there a sex scene? why was that needed? why does ellie kill hundreds of people before sparing the person who killed joel? it's a damn mess
1682) We waited 7 years for what? Joel gets killed straight away (the relationship was what made the first game interesting), there's zero chemistry between Ellie and Dina (it feels like the relationship is forced in to earn equality points), you're forced to play as Abby (when we've spent the first 13 hours building up hatred towards her).,,I'm glad I'm only watching the game and haven't given them any money for this garbage.,The graphics look impressive though.
1683) While I'm not giving this game a perfect 10 because there were choices made for the story that I didn't fully enjoy, this game is a must-have experience for any gamer. The gameplay and graphics are beautiful and thrilling. The story will have you go through every emotion you thought was possible by the end. This is what the standard for gaming should be. Great job Naughty Dog!
1684) honestly this is the dumbest story you could make, could've been much much better, what a shame..
1685) An absolute butchering of what was established with the previous game. The game still looks amazing however the story however has suffered so much that it’s exhausting to get through. Naughty Dog is capable of way better than this.
1686) The story ruined the gameplay and graphics. Holy **** I've never played a game with a story this ****ty. Can't imagine how retarded you have to be to enjoy the story. I'd rather kill myself than play this game ever again. Thank you for ruining one of my favorite games, Naughty Dog!
1687) Most disgusting game I’ve ever played. The story ruined all the efforts the team made. **** than a piece of **** Don’t play.
1688) you fxxk it up the sory this story is just a political staytment nothing else u destroy this game for you who dont playd it jet dont stay with the first game and its fine bravo bravo u idiots from naughty dog and neil quit get the f out of this buissnes u suck
1689) This game is obviously not a 0, but i am giving it that score to counteract the insane 10 reviews.,Objectively its 6/10. Lovely graphics, visceral animations, haunting sound design.  Gameplay is a bit outdated, but good enough. Story is the main problem... really poor writing. lt feels like a cheap fanfic. Joel's death is simply insane, playing as Abby was mentally exhausting i would've preferred to be able to skip that part (yep, lose 10 hours of the game willingly). Ending is simply nonsensical, you kill over 200 people and yet you do not finish the job? At least they could've given us a choice to kill or not kill that roided up monstrosity.,This game never happened, Last of Us is a sequel-less title as far as i'm concerned.,,Buy used.
1690) **** story **** story **** story,**** story **** story **** story,**** story **** story **** story
1691) Top 3 worst games ever! Play obly if you love some blend political activism or dumb minigames.
1692) Message for those positive review bombing, do you realize you need to double the positive reviews, to turn around the user score? Good luck with that XD,Now with the review.,The gameplay has not evolved since the first game, if you are buying it for the gameplay there are better options on the genre.,The story is B movie quality fare, if you are buying it for that.,If you are a fan of the series, expect to be deconstructed like they did with the last jedi.,The feeling you will get playing this, is like the one you got watching the last season of game of thrones.
1693) A plot that sounds like it was written by a 13 year old edge lord, with zero payoff and destroys every character you loved from the first game. A badly written revenge plot with no revenge. This is not Eliie and Joels story again, this isnt even Ellies story. its just a story, and a bad one at that.,,New infected, especially the rat king feel out of place, it was actually in the concept art for tlou1 but they decided not to use it as they themselves felt it didnt feel very 'the last of us' and was more akin to the necromorphs of dead space, to me the lack of colour, the and design seems like it would be better suited in evil within 2 or one of the bad resident evil games. The shambler isnt as bad but still feels out of place, more like a l4d enemy.,,Character inconsistencies that straight up insult and tarnish characters from tlou1, that change personality as and when the plot demands it,,Very obvious that the characters were written around the plot.,,Only positives ill give is the acting, graphics and a special mention for all the accessability settings they made for disabilities,never seen anything like it and its really cool.
1694) terrible story,weak characters,horrible end,,disgusting political correctness
1695) Absorutely Trash. This game makes me really disgusting.,If you have good memories of the last of us part 1, I highly recommend that never play this game.,Just save your money for other good work.
1696) This Series is suppose to be its "all about the story" it failed miserably to deliver a Great story the combat and graphics is nothing we haven't seen from other games nothing impressive for a 2020 game...Overall,They delivered a forced political agenda to make you feel pissed plus false advertised game based on their trailers. Its a Terrible no fun game. Finally, the leaks were not only true but worse.
1697) 75% of it is non-interactive movie. story is terrible. central characters are terrible. and you know what's terrible too? censorship. misleading marketing.
1698) I have looked forward to this game for years and they have betrayed the characters and fan base for forced diversity that was not needed or wanted. And completely ruined the franchise as so many have come before forcing politics into entertainment to pander to the left.
1699) Don't waste your valuable time on this game, if you really want to experience this game, wait for the discount or buy it from the second hand when it became cheaper.
1700) An enormous middle finger to the fans who waited so long. Neil Druckmann has taken a beloved franchise and ran it into the ground. Some of the worst, most horrendous writing I've seen in any piece of media, all wrapped up in a leftist propaganda bow. It saddens me, it really does.
1701) I was able to dodge all the spoilers before release but you know there is no smoke without fire... The only thing surrounding this game is a veil of scandals and problems which is never a good sign. If the game is really good, has interesting characters, unique storyline, fascinating gameplay and fantastic game mechanics covered by beautiful graphics - you get Witcher 3, this game is nowhere near the faint ghost of such a solid experience.,Unfortunately for whatever reason the developers decided to take a perfectly fine concept of the first chapter and added completely unnecessary forced and artificial SJWing. Characters now are poorly written but appealing to somewhat trending SJW fashion of vocal minority. Whole game feels like forced love plotline from the last Star Wars trilogy between that Finn and Rose - poorly written, completely artificial and out of place, it is Game of Thrones final bad. And by the way they've cast Arnold Schwarzenegger  as one of the "female" characters. No joke, there is a certain line between male and female even if the latter is a bodybuilder and is ripped af, that line is nowhere to be found, what they did was just take Arny's body and head-swapped the character. This game is wasted potential, ruined forever since it is canon and it won't be fixed like Sonic movie rendering for example. You know when the company actually listened about their mistake instead of insulting and aggravating customers? Like even EA did couple of times with Mass Effect ending and BFront2 and even somewhat BFV?,,It is shame that game narrative and "trendy artistic vision" decisions are so bad that completely  overshadow fine sound, mechanics, motion capture, graphics and other unrelated things that are actually ok. It is just like a tumor in the brain - kills completely working body.,,Rent the game for 5 bucks if you like trash and want new kind of disappointment, don't buy for full price or on sale.,,As for the media and reviews from media companies - they just doing their work to get money. You won't see them criticizing the arm that feeds them. If you want honest opinions - watch your favorite streamer review or read couple of honest metacritic  users, or if your are immune to massive disappointments - try playing yourself.
1702) There is no difference between TLOU2 and other games of Naughty Dog. Game designed is based on the next things: corridor, arena with enemies, cut scenes. There are only three gameplay elements:shooting and fighting, stels, craft and skills. These elements are absolutely nominal. This gamedesign existed in videogames, when Naughty Dog released Uncharted(2007). But i was very surprised when I noticed many problems in plot and scenario. From this point of view TLOU P2 looks like expensive Russian movie. It is cool when you don't concentrate on it. When you start analyzing it, it f**ing falls apart. There are so many logical gaps, things which makes people stop believing in the game. The problem of strong women is not developed too. I am not sexist or homopghobic person. But please, make characters that i will believe. Make their motivations more clear and their relationships more real. And it is not all problems. This game has very very very beautiful visual style, but absolutely empty world. Trere is no environmental storytelling. Aeverything you can learn about this world you learn only from notes you find in corpses. It is like hello from 2007 year in 2020.,P.S. I was laughing my ass of when i was fighting with enemies and three pregnant women came to me with shotguns and started fighting with me. And the funniest thing that they have the same animation as other enemies. It was very funny when one of them managed to climb on 2 metres wal, run fast to cover and shoot me.
1703) the first half of the story is acceptable, the define half is just a mess, i’m very dissapointed.
1704) What is a story driven game without story ? This is the definition of The Last Of Us Part II, a disappointment and a frustation, thats all I have to say.
1705) Why in the hell Neil druckman did that he is just trying to push what he does belive in
1706) This game failed to impress me. There is no Joel. Story is too crappy. SWJ propaganda.
1707) This was so stunning and brave that I am proud to live in a world where it could exist :)
1708) I'm sorry just the game has done a massive disservice to Joel's character and ellies, if you wanted the story to be about ellie. If you wanted the story to be about Abby's poor design you should've never had Joel and Ellie in it.
1709) False advertising: customers pay and expect what they have been promised. Half (!) of the game is played through the eyes of a player character that has never been announced. Poorly written plot twists, new characters are not compelling and they do not develop. Pace suffers because of over-reliance on flashbacks. When it comes to sequels "artistic vision" cannot be allowed to completely ignore and disrespect paying customers' expectations.
1710) First things first: technically, this is a tour de force for the PS4, even on its last legs. A great send-off for the console and a reminder of what it was able to achieve through its lifecycle. Naughty Dog's technical prowess is (maybe) only rivaled by Rockstar. That alone should warrant a better score, but I'm playing it for its story.,,On the story side of things, the game wants to teach you so many moral lessons that by the end of its 25 plus hours (which quite frankly, became a grind), I couldn't care anymore.,,I played the first game scared to death that something would happen to either Joel or Ellie because they made us care about them so fondly. That bond ended from the get-go...yes, Joel could die (and die he did), but in a proper fashion/circumstance. They just killed him to show us that any action deserves a reaction (wow, really?) and make sure his previous decision-making (saving his "daughter" who wouldn't?) couldn't go free of its reckoning.,,The game's sense of self-righteous is so pretentious – and to an extent, really pathetic – it tries to shove down your throat that it's better than you while forcing you to do things you wouldn't do if you had the chance to decide for yourself.,,With so much shady stuff coming from the studio policies and how they treat their people, it bothers me that Naughty Dog dared to think they could get away with trying to preach over ethics in life through this regrettable story.,,And no, this has nothing to do with Ellie being lesbian, etc. People bringing that up to save face for Druckman's hypocrisy are the real phobics.,,Having said all of that, zero is what this game deserves.
1711) First game was a beautiful story full of wonder moments, great sound, stunning graphics and level designs you fell in love with. Second game have all the same features EXCEPT story and game play. Game play is too repetitive and the story is HORRIBLE in the worst sense of the word. So, without spoilers, if you mix 2 barrels of honey with one barrel of **** you won't get tainted honey. You'll get 3 barrels of **** So, I don't rate the game as 0 just because of all the work technical designers put in the project (except optimisation/hardware performance). 2 out of 10 is my verdict, don't waste your money.
1712) Wonder why professional reviews are so glowing? It's because Sony is literally not allowing them to base their review past the first few chapters of the game. Combine that with access media afraid to lose their early access to review copies and real world politics being inserted into freakin video games of all things (and reviewers basing their review in agreement with said politics instead of the game itself), and you have this scenario.,,What the reviewers won't tell you:,,All the little moments the original game featured, the unique gameplay sessions that spiced up what is arguably pretty vanilla gameplay before amazing story segments, is gone. Couple this with the fact the story is an absolute shadow of its former self, and what you get is a very long drawn out and boring game with little to break up the monotony. With the story ruining characters by not at all portraying them the way they 'should' act based on the first game and the rules it set (the story showing you how individual characters act and think, now not matching to how they act and think in this game), there's little to make you get through the sludge of the same gameplay to get to the end of the game. No longer is the story a treat you are excited to get to. Now you nearly fear it, as the game seems to get worse in its story as the game goes on.,,There's a reason why the reviews didn't allow for any discussion on the last 12 hours of the game, and it had nothing to do with 'spoilers'. It was because the game in story, character development, and gameplay falls apart in the last 12 hours to the point where you'll literally exclaim "what the f***" multiple times. This is not just an opinion of liking the story vs not. The story is not anything to be proud of even if you share the views of the creator. It's literally just a revenge plot.,,The irony is the game creator silencing people even discussing the game (even without spoilers!). He's essentially making a game that says revenge only brings you pain, all while he's taking revenge on people discussing his game in anything other than the brightest light, all while complaining people are upset at being silenced.....pretending he's the victim. It's literally the revenge plot endless circle his OWN GAME warns about.,,Sony is also at fault here. Sony will censor Japanese games for showing a side boob or simply being too "sexual" (if a butt cheek is shown in Devil May Cry, it'll be hidden by a solar flair!). But in this game, there is a girl who's literally raped... right there... in front of the camera... in a very brutal way... no censorship.,,I'd like there to be a standard here from Naughty Dog and Sony. Censor all games, or censor none. Don't censor people's opinions and accept critique, or censor it all but stop playing the victim and admit you don't want your art being critiqued.,,Being hypocritical and only acting in your favor, ie: always against what the customer wants, will get you an even harsher critique than you would have gotten had you just presented what the game was honestly from the start. The game is a pale immitation of what made Part 1 so great. It would have been scored poorly by users regardless of this controversy. But the controversy will only make people's feelings towards the game more sour, and affect the score even more. This huge difference between professional and user scores should show the masses the divide between the common person and the elites we've experiencing for ages. The only difference now is, they don't think they have to hide it. Vote with your wallets.
1713) In a beautiful wrapper, disgusting content. A great example of how the work of good programmers is spoiled by bad history.
1714) The game has nice graphics, but shows things i don't want to see. The level of violence is to high. The political and woke agenda i don't want in my games. The ending of characters who build the story and this world, why? I buy games for entertainment, escaping my daily routine. This game brings a bad feeling from beginning to end. The company selling this game should reconsider what they want their fans to experience and what their purpose as entertainment company is.Instead of showing the people the lgbt community is an important equal asset to society, Abby is portrait like a murdering lunatic. Great example. I did not even mention the copy right strike affair. That can not be forgiven.
1715) This game and it's agenda is absolute trash.  "woke" garbage brainwashing gamers into submission so that if you voice your opinion in disagreement they make you out to be a bad guy.  It is, i had a feeling the things i was hearing before the game came out were a little harsh but now i know it was spot on.,,Game itself is boring, best characters are being spit on by the developers. The story is extraordinarily bad.
1716) Great graphics, amazing gameplay.,,The story not only sets some sort of weird agenda but is written as if the twilight author was drunk and had taken way too many drugs.,,great game for 30 minutes.,,After that, return it or burn it. naughty dog should be apologising for making this travesty
1717) this is what happens when a studio is bought by the progressive left that stains everything it touches is cinema now video games that forced bad story empty characters a hypocrisy at the end that is to denounce this study that promotes such unnatural and forced messages I wish you worst to this study
1718) As a player and fan of the first TLOU, I'm really disappointed with this sequel.,I appreciate that Naughty Dog wanted to "dare", by killing Joel, the protagonist of the first chapter, but it is the motivation that pushes Abby to kill him is really forced for me. Naughty Dog could have killed him in many other different ways.,But the thing that made me angrier than this is that after Abby tortured Joel, first shooting him with a **** shotgun in the legs, then repeatedly hitting him with a golf club, at the end of the game, Ellie FORGIVES Abby for all that that she did and lets her live! All this does not do justice to Joel who treated Ellie like a daughter! (especially seen in flashbacks during the game)
1719) Every so-called "professional" critic that gave this game anything above 4 is a joke.
1720) Don't force me to play Abby, I just want her to die. It is really UNCOMFORTABLE.
1721) NAUGHTY DOG NEVER AGAIN!! I have to say after waiting all these years for this highly anticipated and beautiful looking game that I will not buy another Naughty Dog game ever again. Terrible misleading marketing, the bully boy tactics and general behaviour of ND and Sony and that is without mentioning the Swiss cheese plot, abysmal characters and awful script writing. I'm am to much of a Sony fanboy not to buy the PS5 but they have only gotten through with the skin of their teeth. Never have I been more disappointed from a game purchase in my life and I bought Predator Hunting Grounds. I would like to add when I find a franchise I like I am loyal like a good dog but this has to be the worst behaviour of any high end developer I have experienced. Shame on you Neil, Halley, Anita and co
1722) It is just sad what happened with this game...,You should NOT buy...,Lets imagine this never exists.
1723) One of the gaming franchise ruined on their political agendas, Naughty dog ruined Joel one of the best male characters and some people think of him as a good father figure. Words can't express how I feel when corporations lies to its players and I can't even refund this I haven't even played it that much coz I don't want to play as someone who ruined the entire franchise... and the 18+ scene is just disturbing in so many ways
1724) Yep, graphic magnificent, but everything else - awful. Gameplay, plot, atmosphere - scam. Its not a Last of us. Сharacters acting stupid. I feel like a watching tv-show for teenagers.
1725) Last of Us, dependent on game story. Dont you know that ? and in this game story is garbage. Last of Us about only Joel and Ellie's story. That's why people liked this game so much. I waited this for seven years, You gave me horrible story with a final. WOW! Sorry but unfortunately the story of the game has never been satisfactory and it is full of disappointments. Fix it as soon as possible.
1726) A heart rending tale of a how a game studio got woke and went broke. Avoid at all costs.
1727) spent about ¥6000 and over 30 hours only to forgive and not to kill the one who kiiled Joel brutally.,quite a "MASTERPIECE".
1728) I don't know when they thought it would be an innovative idea to play with your favorite character's psychopath to force you to empathize. It's literally IMPOSSIBLE.,,Joel is the best TLOU character and the one who made the game successful. is the most human and her decision is the decision we would all have made. I'm sick of reading that Joel has "condemned the world." Oh God, who are you condemning? Those psychopaths who were going to experiment with Ellie to open their heads and lie about the cure? There was no cure!,In the game, through memories and Ellie's perspective they try to tell you that Joel was selfish and mean, which is a complete madness of the creatives. In addition to constantly seeing Ellie get angry with Joel without having the slightest meaning. You were going to be a monkey on an experiment table, there was no cure! What's the intention here? Because let me say no. I repeat: there was no cure. They make it clear to you in the files you find in the O.R. So I understand they're staining Joel's legacy, because whoever makes the difference, it's not Ellie, it's Joel,,By far the idea of forcing the player to drive abby after what he did is crazy. You've reduced TLOU's legacy to Kill Bill+shock with Netflix kisses. The backbone of pandemic, the cure and the themes of desolation, mistrust, Ellie's impulsiveness against Joel's cold distrust has disappeared, as well as the cheap way to conspire against a character who already has a life and study made to make us believe that he would be killed in such a stupid situation: "Hello, my name is Joel" "because we kill you". Joel has killer instinct, before anyone goes after him smells like miles, he would never show up or trust to break into the house of such a group of strangers. And they don't know his face either, are they killing everyone named Joel? How many Joel will there be in the world of tlou? It's by far rocky, screenwriter's whim. There are a series of crazy situations going to smoke bulls in a lost house in the middle of nowhere and a blizzard in the venia and just after they show joel's murder. I don't know what the hell's happened to Neil these years, but I don't recognize the characters, this isn't a good job. It's their game, they did, that they do whatever they want with that story but the consumer is the one who pays and has every right to criticize him for what it is, because in the end there is no VENGANZA. Ellie initiates a hunt against 1000,567,890 and a million innocent people to find her father's torturer who is a psychopath, and in the end she regrets the stupid, unworthy message that "revenge gets nothing" He couldn't think of it before killing all those thousand people? And Ellie would really regret if Ellie in the original game didn't hesitate to blow anyone's head off. The Ellie I know would not have hesitated to murder Abby's PSYCHOpath who killed her father. So the idea at that point is not only wrong, it invalidates the whole game.  Besides that by the way Joel is eliminated it seems to have some kind of hatred or prejudice against him, I don't understand that cruelty on the part of the studio and force the player to then handle his killer, because we're not going to empathize with her NEVER that way.  . You guys are crazy, but you've been geniuses far surpassing the last season of Game of Thrones. This game will be remembered forever as TLOU's infamous legacy. Too bad, actually. It's psychologically unnecessary and cruel wear and tear.
1729) I am really disappointed on this game, the plot is so bad and didn't make sense at all. What happened to Naughty Dog? You all need to play this game time to time and play through before the game released, I doubt the staff of the Naughty Boy do the right thing to provide spoiler in advance is the right thing to do.
1730) Garbage. Garbage. Garbage. The story is a huge mess. I feel sick to what they did to Joel. In the first game Joel is a seasoned hunter, he's god of war. In this game they made him dumb.
1731) Good graphics, but story and gameplay outdated. TLoU was way better,This game is a living statement that money doesn’t solve all problems
1732) In players view, ellie is the main character of this game. However, we control the character that player didn't like for about 8-10 hours. I buy this game for ellie not abby.
1733) The gameplay and graphics was fine but the story is absolute rubbish!!! They destroyed the game!!! Part of the Abby game is unbearably boring. This character is repulsive, but they made us play for her. I hope they will not do the third part of the game.,,Joel, you are forever in our hearts!!!
1734) I'm going to pretend this game never existed, the first one was a great game. I like pickle spears better than slices
1735) Good graphics, but story and gameplay outdated. TLoU was way better I think they tried to much about this game.
1736) what absolute ****,Graphics is there, game play is the same as 7 years ago... And this  story.... Who would think that cliche revenge with strong women and zero sense to the whole story is the right choice? I'm just glad that i don't have to ever look at this bs story ever again.,,Don't u dare make III part.. Just don't, bury this corpse 6 feet under and leave it. U obviously don't know how to create character and develop them... This game is the biggest disappointment in my 20 years of gaming.. it's just hurt how bad it is.,,I'll also remember your lies that you gave us in trailers... It's not ok to b8 customers to buy something that's clearly not what they want in the first place.,,I hope no one will ever be that disappointed and hurt as i was by this abomination of a story.
1737) Imagine playing a game about a puppy and 2 hours in someone stomps that puppy to death John Wick style and you have to play the rest of the game as the person who stomped the puppy. Would you even care about the rest of the game? I sure don't.,,R.I.P,The Last of Us,2013 - 2020
1738) Joel deserve better, playing videogames in a console gives something that i believe is dying, you get to inverse yourself in a story, you get to feel, happiness, sadness and most important you have fun and you get to care for the characters. Why did I put a 0 Score, simple, me the consumer not gonna give any credit for to company for not giving the public what they want, or at least a better fate to our hero, Joel.
1739) Beside political agenda, which is a common thing at this time, Neil Druckmann absolutely don't give a **** to fans feelings. Killing main beloved character is cheap and unprofessional move. And then through the same cliches, justifying the killer’s actions, while forcing the player to spend another 20 hours playing on this character, is already simply disgusting.
1740) I don't care about graphics so that won't get any points from me, gameplay is just as bad as the original (QTE need to die at this point or be kept for mobile games not AAA games) the game drag on for too long and become sooooooo boring that you just want it to end as the game is basically the same in he end as it was in the beginning, story is a complete mess, dialogue is beyond bad it's hilarious when they are trying to be serious or emotional,
1741) A complete disappointment.,Seven years waiting for a total nonsense. The plot is stupid, and a certain point ,is repetitive and boring.,And worst of all, you are forced to play with the worst character in the story of videogames ever.
1742) The game has the top level of graphics, motion capture, and not bad music. HOWEVER the story ruined everything. PLEASE DON'T MAKE FAKE REVIEWS
1743) After I had see the video where Joel is died, my decision is fallen to never buy this title , to even not spend 1 usd in such a bad game Why they did not let drake die after uncharted 1 ? Last of us 1 was a master piece , the relation between Ellie and Joel was so amazing and playing with Joel gives you such a authentic feeling of a father who see in Ellie the Alternative daughter which he lost A pity mr. Druckmann you destroyed emotions with this game , you replaced relation and emotion with brutally ., I wish more negative user feedbacks for this game .
1744) Overall the story was written like someone who was wrote a college essay last minute, extremely sloppy. It tried so hard to be different and speak on social issues which was great but came across as trying too hard and in the end was just an utter embarrassment of a game. Little to no enjoyable parts, it became very redundant.
1745) imagine john wicked not killing people who killed his dog smh really dissapointed the first game bought me so much joy
1746) When I know I need to use Abby to fight Ellie, I just can't play it anymore, but I spoiled myself.,,Some people think it's a good story and I think they haven't played the first game yet. Without the context from the first game, it's a dumb story that you may ignore. Such as both characters kill bunch of people but somehow at the end  "oh, I don't wanna kill you". Come on, they kill a hundred already now you saying putting down the revenge? Is there going to be a new character who's jesse's secret brother in The Last of Us 3 and let's say wanna get revenge? You know, the Asian guy Abby killed so she can beat up and forgave Ellie or Ellie doesn't like him because of his race. Ironically, What did Neil say on Twitter again?,,The purpose of the game maybe is trying to tell people that revenge is bad, is a dead cycle that will bring down your life, but it doesn't make any sense. Will you kill a hundred people just to kick your foe's ass? I surely no.,,Joel's death is another nonsense. He killed so many people but doesn't care about someone come for him and say his and his brother's real name to a bunch of strangers, who have guns and apparently more number then them,  in the middle of a tiny room. How careful he is in the apocalypse world.,,And you will find more in the game, good luck have fun, I don't wanna type them all out
1747) My 8 year old son would come up with more interesting and engaging story/narrative. It's basically the same level as GoT s8 or Star Wars Rise of the Skywalker.. The game that main point's the story, isn't even delivering on that front. Sad.
1748) The last of us made me kill over a dozen dog (aspca much?), no option to do anything other than that.  You gave me no choices, no options to pick a different path, so you must want me to be a horrible person, no thank you.  Your game only made me feel bad about the lack of choices all the way to the end.  Again, no thank you.
1749) alright so you made joel look like a idiot in the first game he is carfull and does not even trusting marlene and killing her because he knows she will come back for vengence. but then in the sequel i cant even call it cannon they make joel look like a stupid old man in the old game he knows a ambush is coming but here hi guys im joel. no no no he would never do that and how they exectued his death is so **** you can kill joel because of the actions he did in tlou 1 but you dont just make a character we have not know before just come and kill him and then you force us to play this character we hate then. the ending does not make sense lets not get vengence on abby when you have killed all those people in your way and not kill her after all that? its like kratos not killing zeus at the end and saying lets forget it. 2 out of 10 because it ran on the ps4
1750) this game is a nightmare, after such a perfect game as TLOU, we get this, this is so disappointing, so much golf.
1751) Terrible game. This is not what you expect from the continuation of the first game. Downgraded graphics. Boring storyline.
1752) I really can't understand why they turned a masterpiece into a piece of rubbish !!!!!
1753) The worst story ever and digesting character(Abby),and you put a fake trailer to trick people buying it,I couldn’t believe naughty dog would treated tlou fans like this!
1754) Don't buy this game It makes you feel very disappointed and very stressed out. Bad storyline, bad gameplay and a waste of money
1755) The story of this game is really bad, I don't know what happened,,It makes me frustrated...
1756) Worst ending ever. Not only did I not want to play as Abbie, I hated her. The end was dragged on to the extreme which made it tedious and unnecessary.
1757) 7 years and this is the best story they could come with... That is sad. Pure garbage
1758) Good graphic and 3D.,But whats matter is can you enjoy the game,,its an entertainment, so there is no sense to play a game which make you feel sad.
1759) The story got so destroyed, I got nothing against LGBTQ+, but the decisions the character themselves took where not justified. Joel's character deserved better. Game mechanincs wise I enjoyed it. but I can't give it a good score cause the Game is the story.
1760) 7 years of waiting for SH!T,It the end they wanna $59.99 for this thing
1761) Story is still **** on me and I choose to play this game cause of the story
1762) This game is horrible! Such a waste of time I can deal with Joel’s death it gives a motive to Ellie’s actions. Ellis sexuality was fine to each there own I’m glad the devs took a bold action but the games ending was just bad Abby was a horrible character with no redemption. So many other games have done the “ killing you won’t change anything” trope much better also if the message is revenge is not good then don’t make me play a character like Abby who constantly talks about other survivors as savages who deserve what they get. This game would’ve been better if Abby had just joined her friends. Overall a waste of time due to an ending unable to match its predecessor and its gameplay.
1763) Original game was pretty fun. Not my favorite game but had likable characters and a decent story. Gameplay was pretty good, too. This, however, is completely different. Every redeeming quality about the original has been butchered in some way. The story has been turned into absolute garbage and ruins the experience to the point where I have to give this game a zero. Never under any circumstances should you buy this game.
1764) Disappointed with the game, disappointed to encourage young people to use drugs ... the story is disappointing, disappointing, sad to see a game 7 years later with this result.  Just like the game, the team must have smoked a lot of marijuana to create the game the way it was finished.  A spoiled, unfortunate AAA ...
1765) Oh if I could give this game a negative 10 I would.  Visually the game looks and great but that’s as far as it goes.  If you want a sequel to go in a different direction than the original game you should give the original characters some kind of closure or if you plan to kill them off make it a bit more meaningful for the actual gamers (you know the reason why your first game was so successful).  Instead you went the Scott Gimple route - to hell with the story and character development from the previous game, none of that matters.,,The only good thing about waiting for this game to be released was watching the walkthroughs of other people so I wouldn’t have to waste 60 dollars for this train wreck.
1766) It ruins the first game even by existing. It is a wonder someone let this be made into a game.,The score it has reflects the disapoointment anyone has for waiting for so long and get smth like this abomination of a story.  It should  have a negative score
1767) While Druckman sits in his office that was built by The Last of Us, what he needs to realise is that the real creative force behind that game was Bruce Straley. Bruce is missing from part II and you can tell.,,The thing that is really making me butt hurt about the whole thing is the lies Naughty Dog and Druckman have told, in order to sell the game. Doing a model swap with characters to add Joel into the game even well after he's no longer in the game. Druckman even said in an interview that Ellie was DEFINITELY the only playable character.,,Which leads me to Abby, why? is my first question. What was the point of having to control her for over half the game. For myself and probably 90% of the fans out there, the last of us is Joel and Ellie. It never needed a sequel but if it was getting one it better be about those two is what everyone has said. I forced myself to play through the Abby bits as quick as I could, no collectibles, no upgrades to weapons or stats nothing as I wanted to get back to Ellie.,The game has been touted as being about the circle of violence and revenge and how its bad. But Abby gets everything she wants in the game while Ellie......,,You know what I just can't do it anymore, if your looking to buy this game and you love the first one, please for the love of god, pretend this doesn't exist and theres only one game, go play the last of us remastered then imagine a sequel in your mind, it will be better than this tripe.
1768) This game spit on fan face like in the game, Neil Cockman spit on Joel´s death body. What the hell is wrong with you destroying all the main characters we´re in love with them?, this game only make me feel depressed. ND you stoled my money, I want my refund now.,,Please remove this masterpiece of **** and remake all the story again.,,Joel & Ellie, my broken heart is always with you.
1769) post your review with a decent score, go back and edit your score to what you see fit.
1770) I really dont know where to start. It's hard for me to love this game seriously i've tried. You spend hours and hours playing this game and as it progressed you actually lose more than gaining something. This bad reviews don't lie friends this is a great shooting game but story wise it sucks horribly it leaves a horrible after taste. Enough said you guys play it yourself and hope you don't be depressed haha.
1771) Story makes no sense, joel just forgots about how he survived for 20 years and act like brainless idiot. Pacing of the plot makes no sense. Plot holes are everywhere and it develop because of pure coincidences. It slaps you in your face with ellie bad other mc is good derivative all the time while it is exactly the opposite.,,For a story driven game this game is complete failure.
1772) They should refund everyone who wasted their money. Awful Awful Awful Awful Awful Awful game
1773) What a terrible follow-up to the first. Anyone who leaves a positive review is paid off. AND WHILE THIS SITE IS STILL ACCEPTING NEGATIVE REVIEWS THEY BLOCK NEGATIVE REVIEWS AND FORCE THE GAMES RATING UP. IT HAS JUMPED FROM A 3.4 TO A 4.6 IN A WEEK.
1774) I've never been this disappointed in a game before.,I don't think I've ever even disliked a video on yt but I had to make an account and leave this score, if only to vent a little. Unless you couldn't care less about the first game, don't buy this crap. Heck even if you didn't care, this game is just not fun or engaging in any way
1775) the only positive/improvement in the game is the difficulty levels, giving the player a huge number of options about how they’d like to play. There’s no “easy mode” or “hard mode,” but rather a collection of settings you can turn up or down.,You can adjust your allies’ health, for example, or increase the number of items Ellie finds while scavenging, while still leaving the enemies just as strong. Or you can go in the opposite direction, and decide you want to fight more able enemies and find fewer resources. If one encounter’s giving you trouble, you can bump enemy strength down right then and there, then change it back.,That’s honestly the only positive aspect of Part 2, everything else regarding writing, world building, characters development old or new, gameplay, is seriously terrible, only other thing that might be positive is the multiplayer, which isn’t released yet.,Thank you for reading.
1776) The new leadership at Naughty Dog seems to care more about their totalitarian woke narratives than telling a good story that appeals to all humans and not just intolerant liberal hypocrites!  The mainstream press fawns over garbage if it promotes their causes.
1777) With 6 hours in, here's the deal: awful awful awful awful storyline. characters do things for literally no reason OTHER than to forward the plot in a particular direction (see GOT season 8).,,The original game was fantastic due to its story, NOT game mechanics. If you screw up the story, you've got virtually nothing. Good work, Naughty Dog. You subverted expectations, Rian style. A lovely looking pile of trash
1778) How to ruin a franchise.. like that. This Studio used to make greatest games. All good people must be gone
1779) This is a very bad game, the plot of the game is just awful, new heroes are completely uninteresting and banal, the theme of revenge is not suitable for heroes.
1780) This game sucks and here's why. Joel dies. If this is your 1st time entering the game. I won't blame ya for liking it because you don't know the story. For those who played the 1st part, we have cared and fell in love with the characters we played. We were invested in them. Like when you worked hard on a project and they are like your children. would you want to tear down your work or let others do it? Most probably not, but naughty dog did. they killed your hard work. they killed their first game. Just like that, they had no love for their work and decide its their kid they can kill it if they want. For those who actually like the game because you say its just a game. I say, ok i will accept that answer. But you probably have no soul or have no gamer soul because apparently you did not invest any feeling towards what you played. This game is a story based game. so if you can't love your story that means you didn't put any soul into your game. Worst storytelling ever, the game mechanic is identical to the 1st which means... no improvements. In the end, this game ruins your believes of wanting to be a good person. Because it leaves you scared for life and there is no redemption for our child who we cared for. She was left lonely... no family to called her own... and leaves so much anger in you that you would swear next time if it was you and for your family future... You will CLEAN UP and ties up loose ends. Or 1 day, that might be what ends up for you and your family :),You didn't get to kill Abby so maybe she can kill you again in last of us 3?
1781) The Last of Us 1 is one of my most favorite games ever and imo one of the best narrative experiences ever put on screen. While TLOU's story and gameplay were great, it was Joel and Ellie themselves that made The Last of Us a true masterpiece. You see, the core of The Last of Us isn't the zombies or the violence or even the gameplay itself. The core of the Last of Us is and always will be Joel and Ellie despite what Naughty Dog and all these pseudo game critics want you to believe.,,Joel, one of the best fictional characters that I've ever seen, is completely disrespected and cast aside in favor of a new character named Abby. At this point, everyone and their mother's **** has heard of Abby and what she does to Joel. Not only does she kill Joel but she bashes his brains in with a golf club in front of Ellie, and Abby's associate (who is just a stand in for Neil Druckmann) spits on Joel's corpse, and this all happens towards the start of the game.,,Right off the bat, its clear that Naughty Dog has lost their way and forgot what drew the fans to TLOU in the first place. or maybe they just didn't give a **** TLOU 2 wants to make it very clear that Joel is a piece of **** who deserved death because he killed a lot of people but I think that actively goes against what the first game was going for. TLOU 1 showed us a world in which people cast aside notions of right and wrong and put survival above all else, Joel being one of those people. It told a complex narrative and presented complex characters who were neither good or bad but HUMAN.,TLOU 2 yeets all that **** out the window and just says that Joel is a piece of **** who doomed humanity and we should actively root for Abby (It doesn't help that Abby is so ****ing unlikable).,,TLOU 2 wants the player to realize the cycle of violence is bad but none of this applies to Abby, who gets away with EVERYTHING. So Ellie murders countless people just to get to Abby but once she finally has the chance to kill her, she just has an abrupt realization that violence and revenge is a big no no so Abby gets to walk away.,,"Just enough water 10/10"-IGN
1782) This game sucks giant ass. No, humongous ass. No, actually building sized ass. God damn it.
1783) A firm smack to the face of the original. They kill core characters right off the bat to create shock and then give you an awful story.
1784) What a disappointment. The story shoots itself in the foot in the prologue and right when your getting used to the limp it pulls the rug right from underneath you half-way through and pins you on the ground for 10 hours.,,The first game made me want to be a father, this one just makes want to kill myself, literally. If you have depression I wouldn't recommend this game.
1785) The game is a great example of False advertising...it was very repetitive..a very bad story & terrible pacing
1786) I just finished the Game I have to say this is the worst sequel ever made casting except Joel was stupid the graphics was great including the gameplay was alright but the story including the ending was terrible enough to make me wonder how much me and the fans felt disrespected by Neil Druckmann direction he approached for this game needs a remake I’m never buying another game made by Naughty Dog again until Neil Druckmann is removed from big gaming projects.
1787) Part one made a game becoming an art,Part two made the art becoming a ****
1788) Potential but falls flat on its face with unlikeable characters and cheap tropes. I wish I never played it. The storyline is just atrocious and lazy.
1789) Someone need to get the fk out of gaming industry, maybe go hollywood. game is 10 out of 10 excluding the story, and the story is -10 /10.
1790) This game has one of the worst stories i have ever seen in my life. It doesn't take much for me to like a game but holy **** **** its so bad. Gameplay its self is just "ok" and thats about it.
1791) This is bad "The Last of Us" fanfiction pretending to be a video game.  It's complete with the Original Character Mary Sue beating (and/or killing) the previous protagonists and having sex with the author's Self-Insert.,,It is a perfect example of how a company can completely misunderstand what made it's previous product so successful and go out of it's way to destroy beloved characters.,,Just like Game of Thrones Season 8 and The Last Jedi, it's a demonstration of what happens when people with more ambition than talent are put in charge of a project and mistake subverting audience expectations with producing a quality product.,,Add into this Naughty Dog and Sony's false advertising and blatant abuse and misuse of the Copyright system to silence critics and the and you are left with a product isn't worth picking up at a bargain bin price, let alone a full AAA price.
1792) Story and obviously the game will disappoint you 100%. Do not waist you money!,Total Disgrace and shame for one of my favorite game studios (in the past) of Naughty Dog!
1793) It completely **** up our minds with this awful script and ironically this site is saying that the last of us 2 is a must play, game of decade and other ****,My opinion is that you should keep your money for something worth
1794) this game was a complete and utter failure on many levels. Others have summed it up better than me but the name calling from reviews and those who cant handle their precious political games being talked down on is pathetic.
1795) .WARNING: This is not an exaggeration, everything bad you heard about this game is true and it gets even worse from there.  This game is an absolute disgrace. The story is a complete and utter joke, somehow naughty dog, impressively, managed to undo everything good they did in the first game. The story is shockingly and unspeakably bad. Naughty Dog just tries so hard to distract people from how bad this story is by including disturbing scenes and disgusting sexually explicit scenes, basically products of Neil Druckmann's sick and weird fantasies. Graphics aren't even that great either especially when you compare it to  some of Sony's exclusives that came before this pile of junk. Gameplay is typical overrated naughty dog clunky crap. Seriously I can go on and on and on about how bad this game is but my advice is if you want actually good game graphics and good stories and good game play then there are plenty of other games that are worth your money such as God of War, Horizon Zero Dawn and even Days Gone. Do not waste your hard earned money on this game because the only thing you will get from it is regrets
1796) Trash game, in addition to deceiving us with scenes in the trailers that did not happen in the game, there is a deplorable story like that, history is rubbish!
1797) This game wholeheartedly upsets me. I cannot believe that people genuinely enjoyed this game. I can't fathom why or how there are so many 100/100 reviews for this game.,People say that those who dislike this game are hard-right conservatives that hate the idea of homosexuality, feminism, and the idea of strong female characters. I assure you that the reason why the user reviews are extremely low has nothing to do with this.,THE problem with this game is the story. In the first game (The Last of Us) Joel is extremely cautious, cold, calm and collected, never let his guard down, and never gave any information to people he did not trust. However within the first hour of the game Joel tells strangers where they live, their real names and to top it all off, he trusts them right off that bat.,This is not the Joel we learned to know of in the first game of the series. It is sad to say, and it seems like to me that the developers decided to throw out the development of the story for a single message... ("Revenge is bad, it will do no good for you and will consume you").,Don't get me wrong, the visuals of the game are insanely well done, and I love the new intricacies regarding the overall gameplay, however, this game is a story-driven game and the story doesn't really have anything to show. You don't really feel like you go anywhere.,I found no enjoyment in playing or watching the story... why would the developers make you play as a character while you beat the crap out of the main character that you've known to love with another "main" character that you've learned to hate. I just can't see what they were going for here, and neither can the other 40,000 negative reviews.,0/10 This is not a sequel and In my eyes, I will never view it as such.
1798) Apart from the techniacel aspects, this game wanted to be judged solely on story. You asked for it, you got it. Save your money.
1799) I was always thinking that games are not related with violence in real world. I have changed my mind. This game was created to teach people hate and violence. Game for sadists, sociopaths and psychopaths. Disgusting.
1800) I want to thank the Leakers for saving me $60.00 all the leaks where true.They did me a solid,,The game is woke trash and thank you Neil **** for ruining my second most anticipate game.
1801) Horrible storyline. Ruined the whole franchise. Never again naughty dog and sony. I waited years for this. Wtf seriously. Do not waste your money, even PewDiePie agrees its a boring crap game.
1802) The best thing the last game had was the relationship between Joel and Ellie. They shat on that, introduced **** characters, and extremely repetitive gameplay. This game is so bad because of the expectations we had when we considered the last one. For you to understand HOW BAD this game is, consider that I made an account here just to rate this game and give it a well **** deserved 0. This should be considered a scam and false advertising, even MLMs’ advertising is more honest.,,Btw, don’t pay attention to the “95% good” critics. They just love money $$$.
1803) 30 trash hours ON A TRASH REVENGE quest. They make you play as the character that killed our favorite character. Joel had a terrible death and couldve been better. They paid off more critics than putting money into this horrendous game. False advertisement and a even worse story. Im done with you NaughtyPos
1804) Gameplay didn't chagne that much and story flet like rushed. I waited this game along time and the resuilt i got was kinda ****
1805) This game is absolute **** The majority of games are designed to make the player have fun, this game is designed to make you suffer and feel like **** I completed this game and feel like absolute **** right now, I regret ever playing this, the story is **** with Ellie bad, Abby good and an "anti-family" message. Don't buy or play this.
1806) The story is trash
1807) The main success of this game franchise are storyline, poor written plot and you goes down with everything. There's no excitement such from its predecessor and every minutes of play feels empty. I bet that's what happen when you mistreated the team who make this title famous
1808) Trash game they kill joel in the first portion of the game and they advertising joel alive saying you think we let you do this on your own . Im offended by the game after being a fan of the first game naghty dog have failed
1809) Wish I could grab my money back. Don't buy it, the story is totally messed up.
1810) They did not improve on the gameplay from the first game which was made seven years ago. The story was badly written and felt at times like a cheap fan fiction. I feel like the director of the game has no idea of what made the first game so successful. Neil Druckmann is the gaming worlds version of M.Night Shyamalan.
1811) Sequel has literally ruined one of the best games of all time. Gameplay may be good but story is utter dop poop on the bottom of my shoe. Driv3r, one of the most broken games ever released, has a better story than this garbage.
1812) The story is bad, Joel and Tommy would not trust strangers in the first place. Joel’s death absolutely disrespectful for the fans and disgusting. They lie in the trailers we would see Joel in the present, that’s not professional and it seems they only care about money.,Also they put Ellie like a badass girl looking for revenge, and we see all the contrary.,Also being forced to play as Joel’s killer Abby to like her and know her side of the story, still bad, true fans won’t like her.
1813) i have not played this game and i will never play it even if someone offered me this game for free , i watched some of my favorite streamers playing it and the story sucks , if you are a fan of the first game story than you will hate this one , the game start all fine and dandy , than a new character shows up and kills one of the main characters from the first game , than you are forced to play as this new character for the most of the game's story ! who thought this was a good Idea ???????
1814) the game is terrible, its much worse then the Original.,almost all the leaks before release were correct yet there were people going around saying that none of the leaks were true.,the story is written AND structured poorly.,,if your gonna kill a major character you need to do it correctly, if ND had done it halfway through it would have been better. They also needed build Abbys backstory and motivations on why she would want to kill Joel BEFORE not AFTER. because of this ALL of Abby's gameplay sections are boring/unmotivating,,the ending is extremely unsatisfying since Abby wasn't killed or at the minimum injured severely only Ellie (who lost the last thing that connected her to Joel, being able to play Guitar).,,the entire message of the game is "revenge cycle is bad" but this game doesn't do that troupe any justice at all. there's significantly better stories/anime/games out there with this exact plot point that do it better then TLoU2.,,DON'T BUY.,WATCH THE CUTSCENES/RENT
1815) For someone who considers the first last us the greatest ever made.,I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO SAY ABOUT THIS GARBAGE. Thanks naughty dog and Neil for ruining the best the best game ever made.
1816) Worst story  i wait this game for seven years ago,too cheap  The story and the characters are so horribly written that it doesn't even make me angry anymore, just sad. There is nothing new in the gameplay we haven't seen already in other game
1817) Repetitive game play with a terrible story not worth finishing. All of the negative reviews are accurate don’t waste your money and time.
1818) We didn't deserve this Naughty Dog I waited 6 years to play this, why did they do this? to please the SJW? thanks for ruining it
1819) The last of us 1 was loved by everyone mainly because of its good story but this game just destroyed  the good feeling I had about last of us.
1820) Forced story that lacks any real depth. Druckmann really dropped the ball with this one and what's even more disappointing is how he's been responding to the criticism by mocking reviewers. He's put out great work before, with the original The Last of Us, but unfortunately that seems to have given him an ego that even tens of thousands of disappointed reviews and fans can't disarm. NaughtyDog and its actors are trying desperately to pretend like none of us have played this game, saying "play it before you knock it", but I beg you to save your hard earned money and give it to a less smug, more sincere development company. NaughtyDog and Neil Druckmann's self-righteous attitude should be a little more humble after putting out this hot garbage.
1821) Great graphics but the game is neither fun or entertaining. The story is violent for the sake of violence and lacks heart. A pale shadow of the first game.
1822) Nothing but tragedy porn with none of the bright spots or the catharsis of the original.,,Save yourself the trouble and money and just watch the flashback scenes on youtube. They're the only part of the game worth seeing
1823) This game is absolute trash What did to Joel is Shameful and then playing as The killer of Joel is an abysmal experience .This is a **** game don't waste your money
1824) awful bad epic fail disgusting toxic i've lost 60$ terrible story horrible trash don't buy it
1825) This game is very badly written, the story is horrible from start to finish and the gameplay is painfully mediocre at best,
1826) I could write a million words about how much harm Niel Durckmann did to me and The Last of Us franchise, but I have no strength. I want to forget what he forced me to do as soon as possible. I am a person who avoided leaks and did not want to believe in the evaluation of the Metacritic community, I was wrong ... Congratulations to all talented people from Naughty Dog studio, for animators, graphic designers, sound engineers your work is the highest level 10/10. The story however is ridiculous, my beloved Joel dies completely for nothing, and I had to play the worst character in the history of games for half of the game... I also congratulate everyone who at the stage of work said it was **** and lost their job because of it, I know it's not much, but you are heroes to me. Mr. Niel, I think it's time to admit that you have failed, you should give up your salary for this job. If you wanted to evoke a feeling of understanding for the minorities in people through this "work", then through the emotions you caused, you achieved the opposite effect. The man who is responsible for leaks and wanted to warn people against this game is a real MVP. Do not buy this game.
1827) Neil must be fired! It's purposely put his personal prejudice into a famous game. He destroyed such good game good IP. Sony shall put pressure to NDog. Our players cannot gonna take it anymore in future!
1828) The most boring game i played this year.,Technical part is amazing! Shadows, light awesome.,But story, so so so bad..
1829) I just finished the scene with Abby and Joel. I don't think I've ever reviewed a game before but I had to make an account to specifically to say that I hate Abby sooooooo much!!!! Naughty Dog is going to go down in history for creating the most hated character in existence. I'm done with this game and am going to try to get a refund. WORST. GAME. EVER.,,Can I get an f for Joel?
1830) long story short,playing this **** is gonna be one of the worst things in your life if you liked the first game.,don't waste your money and time on this ****.,(who wrote this garbage?)
1831) Strong and independent women, and men are some suckers,  it's **** Everyone constantly says that "the game is a masterpiece, and those who do not understand this are just stupid idiots."  There is nothing special in this game.  In this game, dumb artificial intelligence, the opponents do not have lateral vision, you stand a meter away from the person, but he does not see you.
1832) I really disliked this game. It feels like a money-grab by just using the IP. Horrible story. Absolutely horrible.
1833) Good gameplay(not perfect) and good design. But none of them matter without a good story. This is one of the worst stories I have ever seen.
1834) A colossal disappointment of unimaginative story telling that attempts to explore the consequences of anger/revenge at the kindergarten intellectual level while using x-rated violence and gore. I’ve honestly never been more insulted by the in game narrative choices made on my behalf. There are humans on this planet that behave like the characters in this game.
1835) It got so bad with the flashbacks and year changes  that it took me out of the story. I was just playing the game for the sake of completing it with no emotional connect to the story . I was made to play as a character that I didn’t like. Then they  try to inject scenes and dialogue to make you sympathize with said character. None of that works.
1836) I have never posted a review on any game I have ever played but The Last of Us Part 2 deserves a review. The first game goes down as one of the best if not the best game I have ever played. Part 2, I wish I never purchased. If it were a free game, I’d probably never play it... I went into the game completely blind and did not look at one spoiler, the only thing I knew about Tlou2 was the trailer that was presented at I believe E3 back in 2018. I feel so lied to about this game. Neil Druckmann on record saying you will NOT be playing as any other character other than Ellie was a flat out lie. The trailers showing different character models in different scenes, is just the beginning. I have zero issue with Joel dying, it’s how they went about his death... if he had died later on, or if had survived and lived a happy life after, it wouldn’t have made me feel the way I did. After playing the first game, I felt a connection to Joel and Ellie, as if I knew them in real life, sounds dumb but it’s how I felt after playing the first game. Then forcing me to play as the person who killed Joel for more than half the game, I personally believe most people probably feel or felt the same way. Neil Druckmann you are a liar and a crook! I also want to state I have no issues with the gender politics that are in the game, if someone is gay or trans,so be it, I get it, it’s 2020, but forcing an agenda is what I have issues with. I can list another 20 things that made absolutely zero sense, but I’ll just list a few.  - Joel and Tommy giving their names and location to a random group of strangers and inviting them to their camp to restock... come on... we know that wouldn’t happen... that’s a total cop out and a cheap way to introduce characters and plots into the game. - Adding awkward sex scenes into the game... really no need for that... - If you’re going to add 15 cheap hours of gameplay as Abby, at least go into more details as to why the Wolves were formed, rather than them just wanting revenge, give us more info on Isaac, his death was another cop out... to build this guy up as some mastermind, to then have him die so quickly with no real story on Isaac... - The ending gives you zero satisfaction, where was Tommy? Ellie decided to go search for Abby because of Tommy and you leave him completely out? Come on...,,Again I can go on and on, but I’ll leave it at that!,,This game gets a BIG FAT ZERO!,,ZERO OUT OF TEN!,,0/10,,Thanks @Neil_Druckmann for robbing me of $60! You’re a class act!
1837) 0/10. The story telling is terrible. The message of the story was delivered wrong. Last of us 3 should not come out. I can presume it will be Ellie getting her revenge most likely. Also, Killing off the main character in a dishonorable way is beyond me. You can see that there are many positives reviews from credible studios giving the game a 10/10 or 95 rating. This is completely alarming and shows the gaming industry’s agenda. This game is clearly not a 10/10. You can spend $60 better somewhere else.
1838) The whole game was for literally NOTHING, because of its final part. Joel died like a freaking piece of ****
1839) Let me save you the trouble. They kill off everything that made the first game good. All of it. Then spit on it and laugh at you because they can.
1840) Absolute and total garbage.,As an LGBT individual, the cheap pandering isn't worth the agony of this dumpster-fire.,Everything is unmitigatedly gore-y and grim-dark, and unrelentingly miserable and awful- Bright spots only exist to highlight the misery to follow/precede them. There is nothing good about the story of this game. Everyone loses, always, but mostly the player who is forced into the role of absolutely insane people. These protagonists constantly ruin everything for everyone and themselves. I wish this was an exaggeration. There is no hope to be found anywhere. The notion that something can only be "artistically mature" if it's unending constant misery, has plagued the entertainment industry for half a decade now, and i very much hope this was the culmination.,Some people have said that the game at the very least can not be a total 0 rating, because of it's great accessibility, sound and environment design, and mostly workable gameplay.,This however is a very linear, very "cInEmAtiC" game, so all these things exclusively serve to support the story. And no matter how great the accessibility, physics, texture, smell and haptic feedback simulation of a program is, if the program exclusively simulates excrement, it is still trash.
1841) Plot 0/10,Gameplay 0/10,Changed Ellle not good,This is not what waited for 7 years,No listening to the audience
1842) This story is the most trash I have seen in a video game. his narrative is disgusting and on top of that you are forced to play with a character you hate with your soul
1843) Technically the game is fine if you liked the first one. But this franchise is based on the story & the relationships of characters. Story wise an incredibly large piece of dirt.  How a group of people sat & thought this was a good idea is beyond me. Just terrible.
1844) nothing but totally piece of ****. refunded. thank you all the 10/10 medias.
1845) As another user said: Worst story ever. Naughty dog should be ashamed of themselves,the last of us 1 was a Masterpiece.....part 2 pure trash
1846) it is not recommended for someone who have play the last of us 1, if this is a story who build in another world, and the name of char has changed, the feeling would be better but it is no suitable for the story to stand in the TLOU WORLD
1847) Sorry for my bad english but i have to tell my opinion after finish the game (I bought the collector).,I find that the game makes the events of the 1 completely useless and meaningless, the characters act in a completely ridiculous and insane manner, everything that we liked in the 1 is absolutely no longer present in this game, we pass half of the game playing a character that we hate without any charisma that seems far too forced, all that to end on a conclusion that is the opposite of something satisfactory ... There are so many gores scenes created to "shock" the player that after a while they lose all their impact and leave you completely numb.,,The game is beautiful but it is not the most beautiful game ever created as some say, and although the animations are clean and worked, they are far from being as perfect and fluid as the gameplay of E3. Level gameplay apart from adding the dogs, it's exactly the same formula and the same game design as the first ...,,In general I find that this game does not have 1 / 10th of the impact and the quality of narration that the first had, I do not know what Druckmann smoked when he said to have finished the game a lot and cried each time, because personally I felt absolutely no attachment to the story and to the new characters and I found certain scenes so cliché that it made me look up in the sky,,I'm afraid of the future of Uncharted when I see what has become of this license, the studio that created this game seems to be totally different and the opposite of the Naughty Dog who made the games I grew up with and which I will remember all my life
1848) The one thing Last of US was good at is the history and how it was directed. They throw everything away in this game. Graphics are nice, but that's it. Gameplay is dull just like the first game. Also, there is a obvious progressive agenda behind the game, which I don't think any game should have. Just imagine a game that support Trumps views, a lot of people won't like it.
1849) Disappointing plot,,Joel can die,,But this inexplicable and worthless person was killed by a character who had just been rescued and did not know who it was.,His value was completely erased by the scriptwriter in the second generation, like the ants were killed,I can't accept,I wish I had never seen the second generation...,I just want to stay good in the first generation...
1850) I feel terribly letdown.,People get scammed by false advertising and then have to play whatever this abomination of a ``game`` is... would not recommend in the slightest.
1851) There is no way Joel did what he does in this game. He mentioned his name in a room full of armed stranger? Really? Why not just also say his credit card number while we're at it?
1852) Had to bring myself to play half the game as Abby only for the love i have for Tlou1. This sequel is a huge disappointment. The graphics are amazing, the gameplay is pretty good. The characters are butchered to make gullible players hate them. And the story is just a straight up 0/10. If you have never played Tlou1 then this game should be pretty good for you, if you played Tlou1 then this game is more of a spinoff than a sequel. What should have been the easiest sequel in the history of gaming, became as disappointing as star wars and game of thrones. The last of us is Ellie and Joel. The bond made the game. Not to mention Naughty Dog flat out lied to everyone and false advertised the game to make it seem like a Joel and Ellie game which was not the case. Definitely would recommend the game to anyone who doesn't care about story and what not.
1853) killing joll and lying to fans i give it a 1 just for good designed game, but the story is **** with too many plot holes. ps Ellie killing everyone then letting Abbie go after she bit off 2 fingers in the end if the fight is just plain unrealistic lmao
1854) It's basically the Game of Thrones Season 8 of videogames.,Also, I'm so **** sick of all these hypocritical 10/10 given by "professional" reviewers when a game is a Play Station or Nintendo exclusive. That's pathetic.
1855) płot is a bad joke, gameplay is from previous gen, graphics are awful, dont waste your money
1856) Beautiful graphics to bad the story is garbage and full of plot holes, it completely ruins one of my favorite games of all time in the first one, to bad they had to push their agenda instead of making a good game and sequel.
1857) Pathetic game!! When u have such a bad story no matter how good visuals and good gameplay u set up it all trashed out by such agenda based story.
1858) Shadows, light awesome.But what we are here for is the STORY, and let me tell you, it sucks!!!
1859) Horribly depressing misery simulator which truly 'subverts expectations' by throwing away everything that made the first game special. Retconning the ending of the last game making it look like a cure was a sure thing, what kind of doodoo writing is this, the fireflies were completely incompetent, and they were going to kill a 14 year old without even asking her. They make you play as the most unlikable character who was entirely thrown in after the fact, there is an exact 0% chance this story was even considered as a 'sequel' while the original was released, this junk is absolutely non-canon and its clear fans agree, you messed up Naughty Dog
1860) I'm so disappointed... I've been waiting so long for this game. Turns out that this game has nothing what i liked in it's predecessor. Shame.
1861) Disappointment of the year. 5 years guys, 5 years, for nothing. I really need to forget this.
1862) Give me my money back. The story was so disappointing and I cant understand why they did this game. The story must be great, it is more important than the graphics and anything else in the game.
1863) this is a bad script, Who wrote the script, i very very  disappointment, it like a garbage
1864) The original last of us was a masterpiece in the delivery of it's story and themes. It was a mission to save the world told from the perspective of the protagonist Joel; who lost his daughter in such an evocative fashion that I was crying 15 minutes into the game. This turns Joel into a hardened survivor who does not dwell on his emotions or the emotions of anyone else, all he has is the need to survive.,,Ellie gives him a purpose, she represents the light in the darkness and in time teaches him to love again. It is a long journey and a hard task but at the end of that journey he loves her so much that he sacrifices the world for her. The game ends there. Joel never tells Ellie how much he cares for her but the player knows because actions speak louder than words. You are left knowing that your entire mission to save the world was for nothing but that Ellie is safe which is more important and Joel has found the ability to love again. It is a bitter sweet ending but there is definitely light in the darkness.,,Juxtapose this onto the last of us 2 a sequel which was always going to be judged next to the themes and story of it's predecessor. This is a petty revenge plot. There is no higher purpose. There is no saving the world. There is no character development. There is nothing but a shallow revenge story where the character Ellie you know and love from the first game degenerates into a cold, angry, 1 dimensional person who is an **** to everyone including the people she is supposed to care about most.,,Remember when I said actions speak louder than words? Ellie abandons everyone she is supposed to care about, degenerating from the character we knew and loved from the first game into a unlikable ****.,,This is a story driven game based upon relationships where the protagonist is dead and the light in the darkness has become cold, shallow and can't express a single emotion to the people closest to her. Maybe the other characters will take up the mantle and carry the story, relationships and character development. What do you think Dina?... Dina? I challenge anyone to name a single character trait that Dina has which sets her apart. Every new character you are introduced to in this game is shallow and generic. You barely care when they are unceremoniously executed.,,...but wait let's spend the next 10 hours playing as someone we hate and get to know people that we know are already dead. I bet that'll be interesting. It's not. It's a waste of 10 hours. This entire game is a waste of time. It's a 22 hour long story driven game with a cookie cutter 1 dimensional shallow revenge plot but it's defining feature and what sets it apart from every other generic revenge plot is that the protagonist doesn't get revenge. How exquisite is that? the genius of storytelling is immeasurable. You spent 22 hours with nothing better to do than kill somebody and at the end you can't even do that because reasons or something. Ladies and gentlemen The last of us 2:,,graphical fidelity: 10,environments: 6,gameplay mechanics: 5,music and audio: 8,Voice acting: 8,treatment of employees: 2,respect of copyright laws: 0,story: 0,,Overall: 0
1865) Terrible story line. Chinese communists have taken naughty dog as well as any other game these days.
1866) The game doesn’t know what it wants to be. A real depiction of humans and the evil we can do. Or a soft story about forgiveness. I wouldn’t mind the latter if they didn’t make me kill everyone I met and made me actually like the characters. Instead the game wants to be both while failing at both.
1867) This game arrogant and impolite, and trying to teach the player on a subject full of obsolete.,,Only those who are not confident want to be judged on their intentions, not the outcome.,So when you criticize the outcome, it makes you look like you're against the intention.,,just made it poorly.
1868) A story game where the story is awful.,,They could have taken so many directions with the writing of this story, and quite possibly picked every worst one.
1869) A real disappointment... manipulating gameplay... and one of the worst disrespecting character death of gaming history.
1870) This game was a masterpiece in the beginning but turned to such an atrocity after a few hours. Naughty Dog sadly lost its touch and delivered the biggest disappointment in the history of video games. Graphics and sound are top notch but there are certain elements in this game that destroy everything good it has and I really can not recommend it at all. This is a well deserved 0/10. As far as I'm concerned there never was a sequel to the masterpiece that The Last Of Us was.
1871) So after all the hype I was expecting a spectacular game it was a complete let down. I really dont see where all these people crying about this game. It was a over all bad game. I must say that the graphics are great but there are alot of other games with better graphics. There was no reason to play Abby it was not integral to the games plot. I believe the developers added this to the game just to add length (time) to the game. You could cut down so much and turn this game in to 10 hrs of game play and cut scenes.
1872) This game make me feel like an idiot. As if i spend $60 to hire someone to fXXk me. Good job, Neil. I'll keep a golf club for you, and your children get to thank me for teach them a precious lesson on redemption and forgiving. Wow, so touching.
1873) Just don´t waste your time...,The only reason I´m giving it a 0 isn´t bcs its a bad game in general but it horrible compared to the previous one :/
1874) The game uses cheap, artificial, manipulative story mechanics, instead of intelligent or thoughtful characterisation, to garner sympathy for Abby. For example when playing as Ellie, you are FORCED to: (1) kill dogs (2) murder screaming wailing people, whose loved ones mourn and cry in terror (making you feel bad about killing them) (3) murder a pregnant woman Whereas when you are playing as Abby, you are FORCED to (1) play and have fun with dogs (2) defend yourself against evil scary transphobic jungle people (3) save kids People who enjoy the story are confusing SKILFUL DIRECTION with CHEAP MANIPULATION. People seem to be forgetting the Abby is a fundamentally EVIL, IMMORAL character that doesn't deserve sympathy In Ellie's darkest moments, she: (1) attacks a woman who, aside from being involved in her fathers death, also further titillates and aggravates Ellie by saying Joel died like a little **** Reacting with rage and impetus, she beats the woman up with a metal pipe. However, Ellie is visibly traumatised and shaken by the event, she comes back and is clearly distressed and troubled (2) kills a woman who she later finds out is pregnant. When finding out, Ellie's hearing fades, she collapses and starts hyperventilating; clearly disturbed, remorseful and regretful In Abby's darkest moments, she: (1) shoots an old man in the knee, who just previously saved her life and was completely friendly and warm to her. She proceeds to take VISCERAL PLEASURE in beating him with a golf club, torturing him for so long that she eventually she grows exhausted and needs to remove her jumper. She delivers the killing blow right in front of a screaming girl who begs for his life (2) smashes a girls face, and upon finding out that the girl is pregnant, Abby takes immense PLEASURE AND SATISFACTION at the prospect of slitting her throat. Both girls enact their darkest moments under the impetus of revenge, but it is clear which character takes pleasure in the idea of inflicting pain. Once you understand this, any meaning the story holds completely withers away. TLOU2 is not a satisfying or entertaining story experience, nor is it a story that even needed to be told, given how many other movies, games, books, TV shows have conveyed the consequences of revenge theme better.
1875) Give me my refund, misleading advertising!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
1876) I did not wait 7 years for f*cking propaganda. Im so tired of (((their))) bs, remake the game please, this is utterly unplayable.
1877) Disappointing... Everithing you need to do was write a good story, if i wanted to buy a clipboard i would have bought charlie's angels blue-ray (2019)
1878) Bad game, dont play please. Its for your own good. Abby can go to hell. I genuinely feel like garbage when I see this game in the PS store and in my home screen, this was supposed to be god tier but the game is the equivalent of smelling your own piss after eating asparagus.
1879) An innecessary sequel, in past years, many people said how the last of us wasn´t need a sequel because all the circle of his story end, but with this second part, the game tried to give us some emotions with Abby(the real protagonist and principal character of the game) and that was the principal fail.
1880) you killed my father but I must forgive you ！？worst story ever. Naughty dog should be ashamed of themselves,the last of us 1 was a Masterpiece.....part 2 pure trash,,对这种侮辱玩家的作品我只能送你三个字：臭傻逼！
1881) Abby kills Joel in front of Ellie, shoots Tommy in the face, beats her pregnant girlfriend almost to death, and bites off 2 of Ellie's fingers,,Ellie: I forgive you. Love and peace!!!!!!!!!
1882) This game went woke, way to rape a good story and characters in the name of virtue signaling. disgusting. Do not buy this game, play the first one and ignore this one.
1883) The last of us part 2 is **** at least in the story department. The graphics are great and the gameplay is good, but thats not why I, and many other people, bought this game. Joel dies in such a wasted manner, and so many characters also just kind of die. Its dogass.
1884) Awful gameplay/combat mechanics copy/pasted from uncharted 2. Terrible enemy AI that'll basically walk into your crosshairs. Worse than that, narrative decisions that ruin the characters we fans from the first game. Linear movie game that doesnt tell a decent story. False/ deceptive marketing leading to games release.
1885) After all these years we've been waiting, this is the best they could come up with? Ruining and killing a great character like Joel, just at the beginning, when they clearly advertised him as a part of the game, then filling the emptiness left behind with a bunch of cliché and half-arsed stuff meant to please SJWs? Why bother righting an actually good script when you can fool teenagers into standing by for your bad product for political reasons, right?
1886) A game for femmes and people of non-traditional orientation. Merge stupidly the main character for the sake of a peasant woman and how to play at all after that. The game carries exclusively the values that all men are nobody, and women rule in the Apocalypse
1887) When The Last of Us (part 1) came out, I fell in love with the game: the story, the characters, gameplay, the scenery, everything. The story of a father who lost his daughter, but then regains his fatherhood by saving a girl that could potentially be the basis for a way out of the apocalypse. The father, Joel, is a classical hero of the story, with whom the player identifies, because Joel is the survivor that takes risks to protect the most valuable, yet vulnerable person, Ellie, and fights against the badness of the world in order to save the world (finding a cure). You witness the father-daughter love forming between the two, which builds the core of the story. The end goal of the whole narrative was: Ellie, who is immune to the disease, could be the source for victory, the ending to the Cordyceps nightmare. She's the key. So I expected the Last of Us II would continue to develop this path: Joel and Ellie trying to save the world. Figuring out, how to make use of Ellie's immunity to fight the disease. With Joel, our hero, in the center of the story - together with his daugter. (SPOILERS!) But then TLoU2 came out and none... absolutely NONE of the expected happened. Joel gets brutally killed off by a transsexual nobody by walking in on a trap he would have never walked in in TLoU1. Then, Ellie tries to take revenge - and fails. In the contrary: The player is forced to play the killer of Joel, is forced to control the evil who has already won by killing the hero of the story. On top of this already awful continuation, Ellie outs herself as being gay, so the last hope for mankind by introducing her immune genes into the future genepool of humanity by giving birth to a lot of immune children, has died too. In short: Everything that made me love The Last of Us part 1 was thrown overboard in order to give space for a social justice propaganda sausage fest. None of it makes sense, none of it makes it fun to play. You'd think that during an apocalypse people would have higher priorities than gender identity, lesbian sexual intercourse after weed consumption and bad feelings from the past. The Last of Us 2 is basically as empty as a James Bond story where James Bond is killed in the beginning of the story: None of what follows makes sense anymore, except for the vengeance of his death, which, in the end, fails too, leaving a total vacuum behind.
1888) I payed for TLOU 2 for a good game like THOU1 and what did I get? A politically charged message. I have no idea how this game received a score of 96, except by shill game critics. This game is nothing but Garbage Characters what seems like a garbage story, Although it isn't a story, but a political message.. The Last of us 2 completely betrays reputation earned by the first game as well as deceives every customer into thinking they are purchasing a quality game and story such as the first There is nothing I can say here that has not already been discussed thoroughly online. After waiting 7 years, I could not be more disappointed.,,Sony should without fail fire Neil ****
1889) It wasn't necessary to kill Joel off the franchise. Why did he have to die?? And to portray him as a knucklehead in Part 2. That is so totally out of character for Joel. And force to play Abby. What a **** waste of time! I don't even like her. Why can't they just develop on Joel's and Ellie's relationship moving forward. This is **** story writing and ND needed 7 years to churn out this **** **** Don't waste your $$$$. There is no Last of Us WITHOUT JOEL!!!
1890) TLOU part 2 it's beautiful, it's a incredible game, probably they win for the game of the year, but, something is VERY WRONG with the history. Naughtdog forgot the Tlou 1? And how Joel is? You guys destroy the caracter for us fans, simply destroy like a peace of garbage, changing the way he are, a man strong and who doesn't trust anyone, thats we will NEVER forgive. And another thing that destroyed the game is force the players to like a caracter like Abby, with have no carism at all, a cold person, that kill her friends of group in the end of the game like its a easy thing to do. This was not what we expected, we like some changes, yes, but again, this distroyed all the **** nice things this game build.
1891) they ruined history by wanting to make the game inclusive, stupid that ellie didn't kill abby
1892) The gameplay is not very different on the first part, the story is junk, and the graphics are average compared to the other exclusives (GOW-Uncharted -...) The game is not like what we expected and it did not deserve all these years of waiting.,I don't know why but you destroyed a masterpiece.
1893) Lmao this story is unbearable. I can't understand how this made it out of production
1894) Amazing game. Don’t let the haters get to you.  Play with an open mind and as spoiler free as possible.  Amazing visuals, gameplay, voice acting and Mocap.  Story is powerful and engaging, not quite as tight as the first but still far more interesting than most any other game on the market.
1895) this is one of the worst games ever created.,The creators destroyed the game in order to fullfill a agenda.
1896) The first part was kinda legendary but this one just ruin my whole childhood memories. Absolute disgusting
1897) This game is a hot, steaming, failing pile of garbage. The gameplay is the same as the last game. Every character has TOTALLY different personalities suddenly (compared to the prequel). The story writing is hideous and irritating. There’s no real progress in the game... You will walk away from this game with a frown of disgust 100% guaranteed. What an immense waste of time and money. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME AT ALL. YOU WILL ONLY BE LET DOWN
1898) This new game is flawed conceptually, emotionally, and in execution. It’s time for politics to be taken out of video games. Do not waste your money.
1899) I really didn't enjoy this game, it was very tense and stressful.,A video game has to be fun and not so in this case, the game made me feel very bad, since I was playing with an assassin.,This is not funny, the story is very bad, the press lied to us and deceived us
1900) Finally got through and finished this game.  Why is the game so bad?  Short answer: the narrative is complete trash.  "Hurrrr durrrr, I just killed hundreds of people but ill let you go as to not let revenge overpower me."  WTF?  They killed off one of the main characters in the most stupid way possible.  The guy who never trusted anyone suddenly gets caught trusting someone he shouldn't.  Wtf?  I gave this a 0 because it is a narrative game and if the story sucks, then it's trash.
1901) Its just gameplay story and character is so bad i dont no why nutydogs Ruined the last of us
1902) doesn't surprise me at all the leaks of the story were true. Plus, just horrible lesson to be told at the end of the story
1903) Wonderful game apart from Abby being shoved down out throats like we have to like and sympathize with her. Nah **** Abby. Hate the ending.
1904) There is no way I will play with Abby, I hate her, it's not the why of what she did, it's the how. I cant empathize with someone I spent the first half of your game trying to kill, so I refuse to play the second half with her..it's not fun, and I don't have 10 hours to waste playing with a character I hate.
1905) The graphics and gameplay are good but the story is terrible and is the most disappointing thing I’ve ever seen. Because it’s a story driven game and it’s caused me so much pain it’s getting a 0
1906) That's a horrible way to keep the series going, sadly you ruined the game...
1907) The writing is atrociously bad.  The writers ignored major character personalities.  There's a self-insert into a sex scene.  They went full SJW on this.  There is nothing enjoyable about this game - no, this political statement.  You'd have more fun having a SJW scream profanities at you.
1908) i had high hopes for this game but after an hour of playing... i'm disappointed. i finished the game in 2 days and it took about 20 hours for me.
1909) The game did not live up to expectations. The plot is terrible. And Im against propaganda.
1910) Storytelling was a dissapointment...The sequel is worse than its predecessor.
1911) Terrible game and storytelling. It's a travesty what was done to this franchise and it's characters by Neil Druckmann and his identity politics driven story telling. Complete woke trash.
1912) Its a feels bad for me even with Joels death being completely justified the story was bum no thank you
1913) Disgusting game. They shouldn't make game like this. I was a great fan of The Last of Us 1 because of its story. But the story of 2 is so unacceptable and annoying.
1914) Unfortunately the game suffers from a horrible story, boring game play, terrible new characters and a clear agenda is present within the game. For these reasons it is wise to save your money and DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!
1915) this game is a complete failure. nothing makes any sense. Abby definitely deserved to be the most hated main character in gaming history. ND literally ruined tlou.
1916) This game made me gag, I hate it so much I wish it didn't even exist.:D burn the abomination!!
1917) The worst story i ever played in my life, it just makes no sense they killed everyone unnecessary
1918) This game is a joke. It's NOT a masterpiece. anyone who truly believes that it is, is just trying to be edgy and quirky.
1919) Stunning ingame graphics and sound. Gameplay feels exactly like LoU1, which is great. But plot and screenwriting, omg thats bad. I was a big fan of Naughty Dogs because they always capable to find the exact balance between graphics, emotions, sounds and gameplay and when they do it's going to be 10 out of 10, but when one person decide that his incredibly poor writing skills should be covered by political investment it's all went downhill very fast. It's really a shame when such hard work of other artists could be ruined by a screenwriter. For me this type of a game doesn't work without a good script, that is why it deserves nothing but 0.
1920) I was a huge fan of the last one and I like to pretend this one doesn’t exist. They ruined everything. I am deeply upset, and can only hope that this game turns out to be a nightmare either Ellie or Joel had which they then wake up from in the third game.
1921) Waited 7 years for nothing. Thanks for have killing the series and your experimental story telling. You lost a lot of fans for sure, me included. Can't believe I ordered this stupid collectors edition. Will just throw it in the trash.
1922) The plot is a complete disaster. This is not what we wanted from the second part. I’ve never rated it before, but these bribed journalists forced me to do it. I want my voice to be heard. We don’t need such games, we don’t need such journalists
1923) I would of loved to give it a 1 (im a harsh critic) but Metacritic is blocking honest and bad reviews almost as if naughty dog had paid them off, extremely unproffesional and disspaointing but its life I guess... Anyway this game was a total let down and series killer, the amazing storyline and character development we underwent in the first game was nowhere to be found in the second game.,My scores:,,Gameplay 3/10, added some new features which made the game feel too easy, that challenging factor we had in the first game seems is not one in the LOU2. In addition to this the game is ridiculed with bugs.,,Graphics 7/10 i'd give it more but the face tracking in some scenes is very off.,,Locations 8/10,,Storyline 1/10 Extremely disappointing, instead on focusing on a good sequel to the first game they opted to brush it off and push a SJW agenda which just did not belong in this sequel and a huge stab in the back to the majority of their fanbase. There are various examples of this if you look at Naughty Dog's recent games, in the LOU2 for example we have an extremely female dominated cast. They seem to have some hatred towards men.,,Characters 1/10,,Total 1/10
1924) Sony should be ashamed of themselves as well as the critics that were bought out to give it a 10/10.,Complete and utter crap, just because the graphics are updated doesnt mean it makes a good game. just like how having a pile of **** plated in gold doesnt change what it truly is at the end.
1925) Far away from last of us 1 It’s not a complete love story,And definitely not a complete hate story,Death of joel at first. Make us wish to kill abbey and then make abbey a good person and nothing to do with it very far from last of us 1
1926) This game is garbage, poor story and look at this ending! 5 YEARS FOR THIS GAME? DEVS ARE YOU KIDDING?
1927) Loved the first game and the first part of this game wasn’t bad but man did the story go off the rails and just disgust me. Nd let me down :(
1928) this game is so **** that I have to create an account in Vietnam to give it a bad review. For context, I am a league of legends player and THIS SINGLE-PLAYER GAME manage to annoy and frustrated me more than ever before, that is a miracle
1929) Most retarded story and ending in a video game ever! Don't buy this garbage
1930) How do you go from promising the fans that the game would be about the story and relationship of the two main protagonists from game one to forcing you to play as the antagonist who just killed a character you made them fall in love with 7 years ago? What in the hell is wrong with you naughty dog... Honestly the death of Joel I had accepted a long time ago, and to be truthful? I expected it at the end or near end of this game. But no... 2 hours in... without even giving us a chance to use his character in game! Especially after you advertised this game with Joel and Ellie featuring in the trailers heavy and literally lying to us with regards to the “didn’t think I would make you do this in your own” scene... that’s a separate issue I have entirely!!!,Graphics were amazing as per usual, music and general workings of the game were 10/10...,But the story had literally killed this franchise for me. Such a shame you had 7 years and kept us waiting for that... what a pile of crap
1931) I am open and honest about this review: I just finished the game 20 min ago and I'm deeply disgusted by this story... I never had an account at Metacritic but I want to share my bad experience with this game. Sad that I need to start my reviews with a negative one. The story is no match to the first game. It's all over the place. Nobody is likable anymore. Everything I loved about Part 1 is gone. But the way they treated Joel is ... almost criminal ... We spent almost the complete first game in his shoes and then we get this ... after 7 years! Boy, this is disgusting. The graphics and everything are nice - but this game is not about this. It's about the story and nothing else. I could live with Part 1 graphics - I don't need that. I will sell this game today - no matter how much ... I want to get rid of it today. I am angry ....
1932) This is what happens when wusses take over a popular game series. The game is riddled with painfully inserted gender politics, thanks to the contributors you employed. Dirty gender politics have no place in a popular story, keep that stuff for quirky indy games. Much like Rian Jonson's movie you have done nothing to advance the story but inhected a political message and threw in two androgenic  characters having a quick, dry, root. If you story writers could stop sniffing your own farts and put together a cohesive story that would be great....
1933) The game has really good graphics but the story is borring characters have no chemistry like in the first one the AI is retarded. And it just feels like there trying to push a political agenda down our throats instead of focusing on making a great game.
1934) Why force us to plqy as the murderer? Why? I don't care about their motives, by killing a loving charaxter they become dislikable. To top it off, we dont even get to kill Abby in the end, the only thing that would have made having to play as her for 10 hours worth the while. The gameplay and graphics are great, but the storyis unbearable. All I can do now is uninstall the game. If I had gotten a physical copy >'d break the disk, not sell it or gift it to someone, it's too unbearable of a game to burden someone else to play it.
1935) Metacritic is already deleting all the negative opinions of this game, but in order to have them see what a terrible thing it is I'm going to say it, Abby should've been killed at the end, nobody wanted to play as Joel's killer, and she had absolutely nothing to add as a character, could she have been written better? Yes absolutely, but that doesn't change the disaster this game is.
1936) Well, I don’t even know what to say ... This game is a complete disappointment. The plot of the game is the weakest part of the game. In the first hours of the game play, we are shown the death of the main character ...,AND THEN WE PLAY FOR THE KILLER OF THE HALF OF THE GAME !!!  In your place I would NOT buy this game.
1937) The game has nothing to do with the story of 1. They want to make you accept the whole ideology by relaxing the story of the first.
1938) Bad history, focused on sexuality and inclution instead of gameplay, the main plot twist is hipocrit, killing a bunch of people finishing in forgiving the main antagonist for a reflexion, games like this shouldn't be made and bought, lost my time and effort
1939) Quite simply the worst game I have ever played.,,Yes, I really believe this game deserves a 0 and I'm going to explain why.,,The only positive qualities of this game are the graphics, level design, music and the game runs with very little performance issues.   These positives would normally be enough to make a game at least above average in the 5 to 7 range but the endless negative qualities destroy all of this.  I cannot recommend more that no one ever play this game because of the negative qualities.,,Gameplay is overrated and ends up being underwhelming.  In seven years, the only newly added gameplay aspects on top of the first game is the ability to prone and squeeze through tight narrow passages.  On face value these additions to gameplay seem slick and are incorporated well into the level design but they are not industry innovative and not nearly enough to make you forget that you need to mash a single button repeatedly during QT events.  The melee combat is uninspiring while the gunplay is merely acceptable.,,Perhaps the real problem for Part 2 is that the first game exists allowing Part 2 to be viewed in comparison.  The first game was a masterpiece because it built up the characters and their relationship so elegantly.  The conclusion was reached in a such a meaningful way that its impact will be fondly remembered for the rest of my life.  Nothing about Part 2 comes close except for a few flashbacks that ironically remind you what it might be like to play a good game.,,The creators of Part 2 eagerly abuse the players emotions by exploiting what was built in the first game just to manufacture a driven plot.  This is the height of laziness that is only confirmed by the numerous plot holes and Dues Ex Machina.  The creators of Part 2 fail under their own weight as even the conclusion in this nightmare is wholly unearned.  The message of Part 2 is completely lost because of how incomprehensible and irredeemable the characters and plot are.,,Part 2 is so bad that if the first game never existed, The Last of Us Part 2 would aptly be described as torture porn.  The creators of this game should feel ashamed to have created this dumpster fire called The Last of Us Part 2.  If I worked on this game in any compacity, I would hide this fact from the world to save myself from endless embarrassment.,,DO NOT BUY THIS GAME.  Save yourself from this joke game which will forever live in infamy.
1940) The game play was fun, the visuals and audio was beautiful. But this game single handily ruined the last of us franchise and spat on the gamers who loved the first one so much. We had to see Joel who was the main character we were all so emotionally invested in get beaten to death in the first 2 hours of the game and then play half of the game with the testosterone boosted Abby who killed him. This game tried way too hard to focus on female empowerment instead of giving the community what we wanted and that was a masterpiece like the first Last of Us game where the story telling was based on a strong , caring Joel and his growing relationship with this girl Ellie who he was meant to smuggle across the country to save the world but instead saves her when he realizes that the fireflies were going to kill her. Naughty Dog butchered an amazing franchise and a game that had the potential to be game of the decade but failed to focus on their community. I’m heartbroken...
1941) The graphics in this game are absolutely amazing. Sadly, that's the only good thing I can say about it. The gameplay is extremely buggy and terrible. I found myself fighting against the game itself more than the enemies in the game. The writing of the game felt a lot like a GoT season 8. The further you got, the worse the writing got. I'm not sure if the writers got tired/lazy or if they just stopped caring altogether. I'm severely disappointed to have waited 7 years for this. I tried very hard to play with an open mind and enjoy it but damn.....
1942) it's just straight up stupid, the whole game is a joke. It's more like you made it without thinking a single bit. Some scenes are so out of context and cringey. Surprise it's been 7 years, and there is no improvement at all, just backwards. It is just too ridiculous to watch. I'll give it a -1/10.
1943) No better sign a game is awful than wanting the character you're playing with to get killed (I know several players have intentionally killed or let that character to die). Technical aspects could be good or great, but if the story sucks, the game sucks as well.
1944) I was fan of the serie but the story suck and is confusing wayyyy to many flashbacks and a stupid ending  and why the **** they killed joel like a dog and spat on him.... after joel saved abby game doesnt lives up to the first game 7 years for nothing neil is a liar game is trash...
1945) Short Game, Graphics errors, 30fps in 2020, Bad history , this Game sucks, Don't Buy this , look the Game on second hand
1946) Literally made an account just so I could write this. I can't believe I waited so long for this sequel. I can't believe they ruined it. So badly. They had to get all politically correct. It's disgusting... I'm trying to erase it from my head. Pretend there still is only a first game.  **** Dina, **** Abby. Such a waste. Oh, and **** Ellie, ruined her character too. Sad part is, they don't listen to us. They won't listen to our reviews and actually try thinking about what they did wrong. In their eyes We're just anti gay, racist, white, ect. Naughty is done for... ****
1947) The story goes on an unusual path killing characters in hateful way, after completing the game a feeling of discomfort is left... I regret buying this game...
1948) Wonderful battles and level design. There is no logic and surprising plot.After the game is cleared, the more we think, the more weird.
1949) Naughty Dog is a fraud. They played fake trailer to make people pre-order their game. They sold Part 2 by making a display of the characters from Part1. But actually they ruin them in Part2. Could we sue Naughty Dog by this?
1950) Almost the whole game is QTE spamming the square button to advance. worse somehow than the first game in the gameplay department. they need to keep the game a lot more engaging and exciting.
1951) Ruined a good game hope they find something to give back to the people that wasted their money on it
1952) Absolutely disrespected the foundation that was set up by the first game. The first did not need a sequel. I swear in the future imma fix this game by making "The Last of Us Part 3," and making it so that The Last of Us Part 2 was all a dream Ellie was having when she was unconscious in the hospital.
1953) Everything but the graphics and the music is terrible, don't waste your money or time please
1954) I've played poor games in the past (many, in fact) - at worst, I wasted a few hours on them. This is the first time I played a game and wished I had not. Hugely regretted the experience.,I got about 10 to 12 hours into the unending, crushing depression that is the campaign before giving up, realizing I was just making myself miserable. The first game had humor, uplifting moments - and a real sense of HOPE throughout the storyline. None of that in this sequel - it honestly seems like this is the first draft of some very poor fan-fiction realized with a multi-million dollar budget. Written by someone with nothing but clear contempt for the original's characters - and more importantly, the audience.,While it looks amazing, it's just scenery. The actual game itself is largely IDENTICAL to the previous one - and that's a problem, considering the first was 7 years ago at the start of the PS3 generation. We find ourselves at the very end of the PS4 generation (this game is very much a swansong for the console) yet the game plays so similarly, it would be impossible to tell which game you were playing were it not for the poorly implimented jump button.,All the production values in the world mean nothing if it's in service of a bad story, and this one's a doozy. I can largely guarantee you will actively hate the storyline within 2 hours, yet you'll be expected to hang around for a further 20 in the shoes of a new 'character' who will happen to be the heart of why you hate the story. Ridiculous decision making from Naughty Dog, and proof positive that any previously beloved developer can absolutely **** the bed and start turning out absolute trashfires of games.
1955) Absolute Garbage,,Overproduced, over-hyped, badly-written garbage.  The production is technically impressive but PAINFULLY BLAND.  Everything just blurs together into this ugly, grey, rusty, drab  morass of samey post apocalyptic environments that you've seen a million times before.,,As for the story?  Just don't. If you cared AT ALL about the characters from The Last of Us, do yourself a favor and skip this one.
1956) have never felt so betrayed by a gaming company as this one has. For me the real ending happen in the first game no part 2 needed
1957) they should change game title to THE TRASH OF US.. GARBAGE storyline.. couldn't finish the game..
1958) The  plot of the game is terrible and totally unacceptable. A mandatory ending that doesn't give the player a choice.
1959) I am angry with the creators of this game. It is not because they could not meet our expectations. On the contrary, they could have but they did not on purpose. That's why majority of the community is furious. After this trauma, i will always wait for user reviews. Especially for Naughty Dog products.
1960) It's a shame compared to the story of the last of us 2013. This is it after all these years .. Unbelievable. DO NOT BUY!
1961) Quote from game summed it up “There was a sequel, it wasn’t as good”. -Joel
1962) Despite all the discussion about the politicization of games and the insertion or not of identity bias in the plot. The truth is that killing a character in an inversely stupid way, and putting the player in the place of a villain to face another beloved character is simply absurd when it comes to storytelling. In an effort to "innovate" and make a storyline that "invites the player to reflect", all the writers do is a teenage story that completely destroys the best of the title.
1963) The story sucks, the ending sucks, and 2020 sucks as well. At this point may god have mercy on our souls.
1964) I'm tired of being socially engineered in my escapism. Fire the psychos who destroyed this amazing franchise. I stupidly didn't read anything about it before buying to avoid spoilers. Big mistake. If you cared about the characters from the first game, and aren't a raving insane leftist you're going to hate this. You've been warned
1965) please dont bother wasting your 60 bucks on this game. The writers have butchered everything they built up in the first game
1966) No offense Naughty Dog but I hated The Last of Us 2. And not just because of Joel’s death. If you’re anything like me and you loved the developing relationship between Ellie and Joel in the first game, you would be sorely disappointed with this game. It’s only redeeming qualities are the graphics (which I will give them credit for, they are outstanding), gameplay (a little outdated but still okay), and the soundtrack. Sadly it ends there. The main reason people play this game is for the STORYLINE, and a decent one was not even remotely present in this game. Why spend years and years crafting this beautiful father-daughter like relationship between Joel and Ellie just to have it destroyed in the second game? Killing off Joel so soon in the game was a horrible move, and a big blow to those of us who love Joel (which I’m sure most of us do). To make matters worse the Ellie-Joel flashbacks, in my opinion the only good part of the story, appear AFTER his death which leaves such a bittersweet and melancholy feeling knowing he’s going to die a cruel death eventually, by Abby no less, a character we are forced to play before she dies and after for a huge chunk of the game (and I don’t even like her!!! AT ALL). If he had to die it should’ve been later in the game when they’ve established a real storyline because it happened too suddenly. Secondly the game is just downright depressing. It’s not fun to play whatsoever, because Naughty Dog mislead all of us with that BS advertising of Joel helping Ellie on her quest for revenge. Instead we were greeted with a swift death and the introduction of underdeveloped and bland characters. And guess what? They all end up dying or abandoning Ellie at the end (surprise surprise!) where she is just fingerless, unable to play the guitar (her only connection to Joel) unmotivated, and depressed. Which make us players incredibly depressed too! There was absolutely no reason for this to happen to Ellie. Seriously, we spent all the time killing and killing so violently just to get to Abby then we don’t even get to kill her at the end. It’s like, hello, what was the point of all that then? And it doesn’t help that I feel absolutely no remorse for Abby either. I WANTED her to die. All in all this storyline was a big risk on ND’s part but it did not pay off. I’m sorry but if a game leaves you feeling so enraged and sad it’s not a good game. These critics are out of their minds, they are only reviewing it on a technical level and are clearly not attached to any of the characters or storyline like true TLOU fans. 0/10.
1967) 7 years...7 years waiting and they gave us this GARBAGE,This is the worst written game i have ever played in my life, the most disappointing ending and story development, with the most stupid message in the history of video games, how could they ruin it in such a way?,i give 1/10 because at least the game looks good
1968) i am so tired after playing this crap. As a professional writer i can say that this games has the worst story ever. I stop here cause i really dont want to send a sec more writing about this garbage.
1969) Spoilers: I think my only major complaint with the game is that the ending left me feeling empty and hopeless. Ellie saved her humanity by not killing Abby but still lost everything. Her one fear was ending up alone and at the end of the game she is. Not even able to play the guitar, her last connection with Joel. I also never really cared for Abby after the brutal killing of Joel. I still wanted her to pay, even after shifting to her perspective, which I found way too long too. I was never on her side and no amount of storytelling could have changed that for me. Everything else about the game I loved. I don’t think it was bad writing per say, but it was definitely not the outcome I wanted for characters that I have loved for 7 years. Why does Abby get the happy ending when Ellie and Tommy suffer? I just can’t wrap my head around that decision.
1970) Oh guys why did they have to force that character, why did you have to force their "equality" I didn't like that and then they throw plagues at those who don't think like you what a shame, what a shame
1971) Cool graphics bad story line it sucks.,TLOU Part 1 story line is much more  better what happened to this game why do they even think that this kind of story line will fit in the game? don't waste money on this game just watch some youtuber play this game  it's not worth it
1972) Honestly didn't want to have to write this review, but after how much I loved The Last of Us and hated the sequel, I figure I need to verbalize what's actually wrong with the game.,,Now, gameplay and graphics are great, bu the reason I'm not giving this game any points is because it's a story-focused game. You don't get points for sound and visuals if the overall experience is horrendous.,,First off, there seems to be this idea going around that people hate this game because of the lesbian relationship and depiction of transgendered individuals. Personally, I haven't played a ton of games with LGBT characters, but one outstanding game that comes to mind is VA-11 Hall-A: Cyberpunk Bartender Action. In this game you take the role of a bartender named Jill in a cybernetic dystopian-like future. You learn about the world through the characters you serve, and their stories shape your understanding of this world the story takes place in.,,It's a narrative-driven game, just like TLOUP2, and has an array of different genders and sexualities. The inclusion of LGBT in this game doesn't take away from the story, but rather is a part of it, without pandering or trying to point out how "woke" the developers are.,,In TLOUP2, men are bad. Joel is a "stupid old man" as Abby describes him, before bashing him to death with a golf club. A man gives Ellie some steak sandwiches and she gives them away calling them "bigot sandwiches". Throughout the story their are interactions that leave you feeling as though the game is going out of it's way to paint men as bad people. If that's how someone feels, great. But if the only way you can build up women and feminism is by bashing men then that's pretty shallow and weak story-telling. That doesn't even touch on the unnecessarily long segments of over the top romance scenes with Ellie and Dina. It's like the developers were pointing a flashing sign saying "look how progressive we are at Naughty Dog!" As I said, nothing wrong with LGBT relationships, but when you go over the top with the romance it makes it seem pandering and shallow, less like you want inclusion and more like you want to make yourselves seem woke.,,One of the biggest criticisms I have is how out of character the main characters seem to act. Joel and Tommy trusting strangers and giving their real names when they've just met makes absolutely zero sense. If you don't believe me, go play the Last of Us part 1 again. Or just watch some cut-scenes. Joel is incredibly cautious around new people, a trait he passed on to Ellie by the end of the first game, and it's almost like this game was made by a whole different team than the ones who made the first game. It's insane.,,And lastly, the overall narrative. Now, at this point if you've played the game it's pretty obvious this story has an overall message about revenge, and essentially how revenge is bad and ends up becoming a never-ending cycle. It's a pretty basic theme we've seen in many stories before. But generally speaking, the way it works is that if the audience genuinely feels as though letting the antagonist live and ending the cycle of revenge is justified. That the audience feels a genuine connection with the antagonist, and that the protagonist has had enough of an experience that has changed their perspective about getting revenge.,,Well, that doesn't happen here. Abby continues to be unlikable throughout this game, and playing with her for about 10 hours (which the game forces you to do) you don't feel like you've come to understand or appreciate her character more. And if anything, I think that's more the fault of the writers at Naughty Dog than it is with the player. The game never explicitly answers a very simple question: why should I care about Abby when she murdered Joel? It attempts to "humanize" her by making you play from her perspective, but again, never answers the question outright. And at the end of the game, right when you as the player feel as though Joel will be avenged, Ellie decides against it. After killing so many other people who were involved in his death, she spares the one person who deserves to die more than any of the others. It leaves the player feeling less like they experienced a videogame and more like they left a terribly written movie.,,In short, I think the worst thing about this game is although I can get my money back, I can't get my time back that I wasted on this abysmal, horribly written "gaming" experience. 0/10. Honestly play something else.
1973) The game is such a disappointment. Bad story, no lovable characters, and false media reviews. However, players/users are not that stupid.
1974) TLOU 2- An Exaggerated Simulacrum.,TLOU 2 serves as one of the biggest failures in the history of gaming. Sony and Naughty Dog crafted a disappointing story with outdated gameplay. In all honesty, the leaks, which happened months before the game was even released, ignited the downfall of one of gamings most beloved characters. From the abusive DMCA's affecting anyone  barely discussing the leaks to the realization of false advertizing, where in early trailers of the game, Joel was shown to be a crucial character in the story's development.  Only to be brutally, and very disrespectfully disposed of in the the first section of the game showed to us, gamers, what  Naughty Dog set out do. Edit: At the moment of writing this edit, Metacritic  has disabled negative reviews for this game. They are trying to silence all the disappointmented fans expressing their frustration with this pile of dog ****,TLOU was a game distinguished among the others based on its entertaining, and sweet storytelling. However, Part 2 sets out to destroy everything the first game made. Joel is killed and singled out as the villain by a new uninteresting character called Abby, the best Scar Killer, someone who sees nothing more than violence and revenge after the impactful choice Joel makes at the end of Part 1. The game is a beautiful deatil work of art, crafted by over worked and underpay employees. The semi open world are a breath of fesh air from the linear nature of its predecessor, unfortunately that's all you are paying for here.,Gameplay is outdated. A hard copy pasted effort to seemingly forget the mistakes of the last installment. Stealth  is summarize  as "Walk behing enemies and stab them with your knife, over its devastating long game. The shooting is as the original. Clunky, nonresponsive, hard to aim, and inaccurate. A headshot is affected by chance and the lucky moments when your reticle and the mary go round shaky hands of your character meet in perfect symphony. Jump, useless and prone, is used as a poor excuse to expand game time and hide the loading screens.,The game is a constant duality. Uniting gameplay and storytelling. But when the most important part of your game is full of inconsistent behavior in part of your characters, Joel, Tommy, and Elli. The game opts to introduce us to a new set of avenger type mass murderers as the solution. We know Joel isn't a saint. But the attempt to destroy him as much as this game is trying to is laughable. The writing is geared to push Elli to her limits, and we see her slowly falling to the pit, but her counterpart, Abby somehow gets the sweet tratment and is in a journey of self reflection and change. But guess what, It doesn't work because this game is based on perfectly, and improbable acts of pure coincidence. Its just a Simulacrum, in which every possible circumstance that could lead to this story happens and its materialize in the fly and from thin air. The game makes you feel terrible, because its in fact terrible. Gore,  gore  and more gore is what makes part two trully obnoxious and honestly adept to psychiatric counseling. Quick time events are a combination of thumb and square smashing action. Sometimes I could hear my controller begging me to stop. These moment are quite well done, bit too many too much. Aside from set pieces encountering this acts might lead you to your death by a clicker. Since reaction time in a 30 FPS game like this, where turning aroung gets you dizzy is a hassle.,This game is built on coincidence and poor storytelling, your favorite characters are turned into fools seeking a Fool's endeavour, such as the cycle of revenge, ND so proudly think they mastered, where there are clear winners and losers. Spoiler  Alert Abby the piece of **** Wins.,My honest Review is a 4 out of10.,The poor artists carry this game like Jesus carried his croos. And just like him  they carried it straight to the grave.
1975) the gameplay is good its a shame story goes that way. it was a real waste of potential in my opinion at least
1976) Unfortunately, today game developers think they can teach and control people.
1977) Ruined the established story from the first game, it's more of a new game than a sequel
1978) I have never played such a bad game.......,,This about proves that critic reviews are not trustable anymore.,,10/10 Really funny....
1979) The plot is disappointing for treating a character in such a way is not worth buying
1980) This may be the biggest disaster in history when it comes to writing in a video game. This is not just a betrayal of the characters, story, and audience that loved and supported the original, but the developers who were exploited and put through the wringer for the twisted desires and agenda of a selfish individual.,,I implore those who are interested in this game to save your money, and better yet, your time and affection for the characters of the original. Anything a fan could come up with in their own head would be a better outcome than what you would be putting yourself through with this shoddy, amateurish slap in the face.,,Pass on it, grab something in the meantime, or wait for reviews on Ghost of Tsushima perhaps, and grab that instead. You will be glad you saved yourself not only the heartache, but will be sending a message with your wallet that this treatment of fans and developers is unacceptable.
1981) Graphically, the game is very good, the gameplay is good, the story is somewhat poorly written, good work, but we expected more.
1982) Gameplay is good!,But the story so bad.,The ending make me sick. Ellie and joel deserve better.
1983) Its utter crap don't bother.,,Story is crap and gameplay is crap.,,Its an insult to my intelligence.
1984) Beautiful graphics but such a truly terrible story. I wanted to love it so badly, but once I was done with it I couldn’t ignore how truly terrible it was.
1985) This game was hot garbage! Even after hearing all of the leaks, I still went out, bought the game and played it for myself because I loved the first one so much! What a disappointment this was. I could care less about having LGBTQ characters, just give me a good story and make them well written, I got neither. This was not the Joel and Ellie I’ve come to love and admire, these are other people, who make dumb wreck-less decisions the characters in the first game would never make. What a waste and letdown this game was. Killing off one of gamings best characters and then forcing you to play as the one who killed them off??? Poorly played naughty dog, very poorly played...
1986) bad story = bad game. I really wanted to like this game, but the story is just SO BAD!
1987) The graphics are beautiful, second to none the gameplay is pretty much the same as the first game but the story is, I’m gonna be blunt terrible it’s terrible the fact that Joel dies like that is upsetting but the fact that they tried to humanise Abby is cheap and that we can’t even kill Abby at the end is a big f u to everyone who has been playing for hours
1988) Oh my god. False advertising at its peak. Tricking the fans to think it's a joel and ellie adventure. They killed joel within the first 2 hours. Why are you guys saying that the people who don't like the game are homophobes. Just look at life is strange 2. Wow I pray to god that this doesn't happen to the uncharted series.
1989) this game is too arrogant that it's trying to teach you boring lesson. they know its a bad idea for keep you play, so they take your favorite characters into hostages. this game is full of anger, frustration, and contempt against you. if you are a big fan of part 1, consider it as star wars - last jedi. believe me.
1990) The best graphic ever with a great gameplay is useless with a horrible story The trailer has spoilers!!!
1991) I think This game is one of the most overrated games of all time.,I don’t understand whats all the hype about & why critics gave it such A high Score
1992) The story is just a attention seeking shock value driven mess that thinks its smart and deep but it is not.,But the graphics and combat is good however in a story driven liner game that means nothing if the story is not good.
1993) bad writing and over the top gore sound effects and this is more of a movie than a game and if it was a movie it would be a total flop
1994) If you played the first one and it's DLC, don't go out and buy this game. Huge dissapointment, the game goes out of its way to piss you off with its baffling choices and story. The ending had me staring at the screen with a blank expression questioning why I even bothered to finish this game.  Save your money on this one. I hope they make this one the last one of the series because I can't really see how they can come back from this. Don't trust game journalist reviews. There are reviewers out there who aren't afraid to criticize the game for it's shortcomings. This is not a masterpiece, you've been warned.
1995) This game is the dark souls 2 of dark souls trilogy. Why the hell you would wanna play with Abby wtf dude
1996) They ruined everything I liked about the 1st part, graphics and gameplay are good but the story is absolute trash, I was suffering playing the game
1997) I finished this game. I wasted my money on a stupid "revenge" story. Neil Druckman ruined the Last of Us. This "game" is an insult to the fans of the first game. 0/10
1998) The story is very BAD and Ellie is weak person and the ending is just a time wasting.
1999) I love the first game of the last of us, I love the relationship between Ellie & Joel, but this 2nd game is awful, the story is forced to make you regret playing it, its unbearable to play as the one that killed you fav person, imagine if there is a game that make you play as hitler, is this game trying to make everyone who play it being a psychopath? the graphic is great but the story & the gameplay is boring, who seems just copy-paste from the first game doesn't make it enjoyable to play it, dont buy this game, its not worth your time or money
2000) The character development in the first game seems to be for nothing as character choices make it seem like these are completely different people. Someone like Joel didn't survive 20-30 years of apocalypse by being this dumb. This game shouldn't have had the same characters at all. It could've been a completely new game with Abby having no connection with Joel at all. That would've made a much better game. But this right here is just a load of crap.
2001) Trash story , trash game! They must have spent all there money trying to get good reviews because they sure as hell didn’t hire a good writer
2002) Sony and Naughty Dog lied purposely to their fans before the launch and the plot leak. They said Ellie would be the only playable character. All the hype was all about Ellie and Joel and they made trailers which gave us a feeling that Joel would still appear a lot. They carefully hided everything about Abby and gave their fans wrong expectations, as they were afraid it would affect the pre-order number. So the game itself is not a game that bad. I played it and could have given it a 8/10. But in my opinion Neil Druckmann and Sony do deserve the backlash. Their action and attitude before and after the launch of the game deserve a 0.
2003) As the saying goes, if you made a great game, stop at that. But, this company had to go and butchered the game by making a horrible second game.,,Endless cycle of go here and take revenge, go there and kill this person. Storyline was frustrating to go through as well. Very disappointing. Sony really stabbed us with this game.
2004) Ruined the whole story that was set up by the first....,SWJ trash, I should have listend to others, but I tried it.,Best to forget about it and only have the memories of the first.
2005) they made a game to please SJW, forget about that masterpiece of The Last of Us 1, they ruined it.
2006) Just bloody terrible. Neil has ruined this franchise. Awful compared to the first game.
2007) I've just wasted 7 years for this garbage,**** horrible ending,I just want to forget about this game.
2008) Testing whether there's a suppression of negative reviews ~ But for the most part The Last of Us Part II lacks most of the single aspects which made first game great ~
2009) If you're a fan of The Last of Us and you love the story and characters,,DO NOT BUY THIS GAME.,YOU WILL REGRET IT.,I'm just going to pretend Part 2 doesn't exist.
2010) The story is a big part of the game and it is horrific. Characters are stupid, uninteresting, and lack character development. The story is filled with plot holes and feels convoluted as it is filled with flashbacks and character switching.
2011) for movies I already subscribe to netflix. It is tiring to spend hours and hours walking while the characters talk. The gameplay remains the same as the first ... nothing new nothing interesting.
2012) The best graphics and soundtrack the PS4 has ever produced. The combat and traversal have improved from the original game but the story and plot have left me with the most disappointing video games I have ever played. The complete disregard for the characters we grew to love was shockingly frustrating.,,Naughty Dog are my favourite developers but the logic behind the storytelling in this game is extremely flawed.,,I am going to pretend this game never existed.
2013) This game is horrible and a betrayal to gamers and fans. It’s just a piece of LGBT propaganda.,They completely twisted the characters and story to adapt it to this dishonest narrative.,Stay away from this piece of junk.
2014) this is a slow game. bored and overrate.,their kill a great IP,,please don't waste your money,,thanks so-ny, for the hype in all your games launch.
2015) WTF did I just play? So if this game was a standalone game and were not a sequel to TLOU1 than it would be a pretty decent game but oh boy if you compare part 1 to part 2 there are dimensions between them. How could someone approve this kind of story writing? Almost all characters act out of their character what we learnt and seen throughout the first game and then they gave us new characters with almost no personalities and killed them off pretty fast and everyone just forgot about them like they never existed. I could go one and on and on but that would take too much time. So in conclusion:,Gameplay: 4/10 (it's almost exactly the same like the first one),Music: 9/10,Voice acting: 9/10,Story: 2/10 (this is generous because of the flashbacks between Joel and Ellie),The game: 2/10,If you loved the first game don't bother to buy the sequel you'll be disappointed how poorly they write and treated the characters we fell in love with through the first game. If you support this game it's like you would spit on joels corpse.
2016) Racism,disgusting plot, destroying ideals and values.,Unhappy to spend money,this is a bad experience.
2017) The gaming developers need gamers - It's not the other way around.  Like many others I deleted the game after a couple hours.  My disappointment with this game is immeasurable. I don't need my intelligence insulted and i don't want to be lectured about stupid **** subliminally. My poor cousin is forcing himself to like the game since he just bought a ps4 pro.
2018) nonsense story, good graphics, your hype goes down every mission, and want to leave the game unfinished
2019) The writing is so bad, Joel telling those strangers his name, and him trusting them goes completely against his nature.
2020) The graphics and gameplay of this game are amazing like the in first part, but the story sucks a lot.
2021) I dont see the point in the game because main character dies in a most stupid way after he spent 40 years surviving the apocalypse and not trusting anyone to come in one moment hey im going with kill me for free.
2022) This was just bad. I’m keeping this brief since I don’t even know if I’ll be allowed to post it or have it deleted later. The graphics were great. The gameplay was above average in quality. The story was horrendous. It leaves me wondering what message was so important important that they revived an already great game with a great ending, just so they could butcher all the characters we loved in ways that didn’t make any sense, and shove a bunch of new ones that no one gives a **** about down our throats and expect us to like them. “Revenge is dangerous, guys.” We know. That motif has been done thousands of times before (and better executed, mind you). Was it just a cash grab? They certainly put a lot of effort into it if it was. I think this game was made out of spite. It feels like they made the game because the Gaming Elite hate their gaming fan base and wanted to ruin the things that we love and everything they stand for, and push their NuWoke cult on us.
2023) Whoever likes this game obviously hates good storytelling. I'm upset over the fact that Ellie is a LGBTQ+ character, hey that's great, she was even like that in part 1. What I am upset about is the lack of good storytelling a character development. I mean Abby basically does whatever she wants throughout the whole game and gets away scott free, by killing Joel, scarring Tommy and giving Ellie PTSD. She murders countless people and does not even pay once, how in the f*ck is that fair? Not to mention, when Ellie finally has the chance to take revenge she just what? Chooses not to? Because of the memory of Joel? F*ck that in thw first game, she was upset over being alone and does whatever she can to survive and takes care of Joel like her own father and the fact that he is brutally murdered isn't enough to take revenge?! And if you say "it's to break the cycle of violence" Then why the **** does Ellie murder countless people just to get to Abby huh? I mean how the **** does that make sense?! Goddamn it, Neil Druckman made such an amazing first game that I will remember for the rest of my life, but the fact that this made this horrible peace of crap shows me it was beginners luck I mean come on man, how many brain cells had to die in your head for you to think this was a game worth releasing and playing
2024) I’m glad there was a zero. Last game was a ten this one crapped the bed.  Gameplay as good story is wack and contrived and confusing pretty game but stupid
2025) A game with tons of crunch on their workers must be punished, and is simply a bad game.
2026) very bad game the is shame on the series after 7 years of withing become this game a very bad story a very bad character and the main character of part 1 die at first 2 hours sad for that
2027) This game is good but not worth buying. I was astonished by the beautiful scenes and well-designed AI. Everything is so perfect except the story-telling, which gives you a deep-dark, depressing, and devastating feeling. The story starts with bitter and end with bitter again. Come on, life sucks, I don't want to suffer from game anymore.
2028) Coming into this game, I was expecting greatness, as I was a big fan of the first installment. Druckmann seemingly has destroyed his series and his characters in a way that is almost unexplainable. I would not recommend getting this game that no one even asked for.
2029) Where even to begin.,This game obviously obviously had some big shoes to fill. I enjoyed TLOU1 despite it's boring gameplay because of the engaging story and well crafted atmosphere. This game however fails in almost all aspects, graphics being its only saving grace. In a way it, it is the perfect example of a modern triple A failure.,It's very pretty to look at, but has little in the way of gameplay, as it almost plays itself. There is no choice, the game is linear from start to finish. It would've made a good movie if the story wasn't bad.,Everyones favorite character is killed off, Ellies character is all over the place, making it obvious not even the writers knew what to do with her after killing Joel.,One second she's mad, the other she's having some lesbian fun, then she goes back to a killing rampage in order to reach Abby, the main villain of this game, then after a small genocide she finally has the chance to kill her and she has a sudden change of heart. Maybe she decided some post apocalyptical netflix and chill with her girl friend would be a better way to pass the time?,Oh and the game pulls the genius move half way to have you play as the villain, Abby.,No one likes her, that was the point of her from the beginning. Create the most unlikeable villain possible and make a tired revenge story. Why force the players to play as her? so you can have catharsis when you kill yourself? it's just such a badly written game it feels like it was meant to fail from the start. No clever twists, no clever writing, no memorable lines, an amateurish, tasteless and awkward narrative. That's the story we get to accompany non existent gameplay.,What a 60 dollar scam, I feel bad for those who bought it without knowing what they're in for.,Oh and what's with the reviews for this game? it smells like foul play to me, early review copies in exchange for 10/10 ratings, maybe even bribes.,If anything, TLOU2 is a sad tale about a corrupt industry. 0/10
2030) The game wasn’t bad, but WHY KILL JOEL LIKE HE WAS A PIECE OF GARBAGE AND THEN PORTRAI HIM AS THAT WITH ABBY??? Just why?, so stupid, and the ending with ellie omg what were you thinking?
2031) This game is a **** revenge story that leads up to NO revenge.  I told this was Ellie's adventure and half the game you are playing as the annoying unrelatable Abby. Nothing is resolved in this game. The ending is terrible. I want my money back.
2032) I thought the first 2 hours are worst until I get to the end. At least the gameplay is kinda good.
2033) Horrible story. They try and make you feel bad for a character that has no story behind her whatsoever.
2034) Honestly this game is not for fans of the relationship between Joel and Ellie, this game totally destroys that and it changed it into something unrecognizable for The Last Of Us, Gameplay and Graphics amazing, but story is not worth the 7 years wait.
2035) Game trash!!!!  money thrown away! Horrible story, they killed a promising game, threw it all in the trash!
2036) It so bad because a lot of thing in it  and I think they should just stop on the first game
2037) The games story is a HUGE steaming pile of the worst smelling feces imaginable, and the shooting is still too clunky compared to part 1 being a total disappointment. I tried playing the game with a controller and my mouse a keyboard adapter (because i normally play PC) that work great with other games, but no matter what i did it still felt clunky. And what the F is with this bullet drop!? I get some people like it, hell even i like bullet drop in games I play ARMA 2 and 3, but in TLOU2 the amount it drops is absolutely ridiculous to the  point i never used the scope unless i felt i had to. The worst part about this game is the way Sony and ND responded to the leaks and the people criticizing the game leaks was horrendous and unprofessional, not to mention the way they shove this LGBTQ and feminism "culture" as some people say in your face just ruined RUINED a good series! A message to sony and ND y'all lost a long time supporter, so this will be the last console i ever buy and don't expect another dime from me especially if it's another fake exclusive for ps4/ps5 cause we all know they'll port it to the next console for the buck$.
2038) Played the game and found it to be void of any real story.  You would think after the long wait for the sequel the developers would put a bit more effort into a game worthy of our money.  I guess we are just cash cows in their eyes.
2039) Poor writing and plot holes here and there. One of the example is Joel character, at the first game he will never trust strangers, it's actually one of the very first lesson he emphasized on, always avoid strangers or be ready for an ambush if you can't avoid them. In tlou2 he actually walked into a lodge full of strangers and drops his guards completely. So out of character, and that's just one if the poor writing in this game.
2040) Worst game ever. If you are a fan of TLOU please don’t buy this **** This second part is filled with LGBT messages.
2041) Incredibly unsatisfactory story following the masterpiece that was part 1, feels almost rushed despite taking 7 years to arrive. Graphically it is fantastic but the new characters feel forced and the gameplay has not progressed whatsoever since 2013. The development of the main characters feels devoid of the personalities and traits built up through the original story. Really saddens me to say as I expected so much but this is a massive disappointment.
2042) I was waiting for the second part 7 long years. So far, The Last Of Us Part II is the biggest disappointment I ever had.
2043) This has got to be one of the worst games of the year, if not the decade.,,I would guess that whoever wrote it never played the (very good) first game.  I would still recommend playing the first one if you haven't.  Joel acts nothing like himself in the game, Ellie barely more.,,The fact the ending isn't clearly the worst part of the game just goes to show how many truly terrible things there are about the game.  The protagonist of the first game killed while acting wildly out of character?  Check.  Being forced to play half the game as an entirely new character that has absolutely zero likable qualities? Check.   Ugh.,,Then at the end when you're finally about to kill that new character mentioned above a flashback to Joel saves her?  How about, **** her, she killed Ellie's dad kill her.  Not to mention bit off her fingers only seconds before.  So infuriating.  I would have given it another point or two if Ellie had finished her off in the end, it would still be a gross and annoying story but at least it would end on an up note.,,Now I know, the thing to do is say "Anyone who doesn't like the game must hate women."  Really?  Ellie doesn't count?  How stupid is that logic.
2044) Don’t even bother it’s unspeakably bad. First naughty dog game I have ever disliked
2045) Just don't bother playing this save your money and act like it never existed
2046) Misleading marketing, shallow plot. Specifically Joel playing a much large part of the story but he dies shortly in it. The hand on the shoulder in the trailer and demo misleading to be Joel but not actually in the game.
2047) The story is horrible. The gameplay is the same as the first game. Nothing new. Just a waste of time . Go spend your money or something else.
2048) ok so i have a bit of mix feelings bout this. Uno was a classic. But not sure what type of drugs these A guys were on.. you got a mix bag of characters who all suffer from some kind of identity crisis. my  doggo here don't even like it. he farts every time he sees that dang o Abbowabby. What a nut job. and don't get me started about certain reviews unheard of. Someone can't face the music...
2049) The Gameplay stays true and expands greatly and impressively upon the masterpiece that is the original. Unfortunately this series is built on its story and the story of part 2 falls flat on its face as characters do not represent themselves accurately. This game is supposed to be built on revenge yet all the game ever discusses in its story is romance between the two female characters. It appears the title was used as a political statement rather than creating an exciting work of art. As a big fan of the original this was huge disappointment after such a long wait and unfortunately may lead me to steer clear of future Naughty Dog titles.
2050) This game doesn't deserve all of this hate from the review bombers and those that haven't even played the game yet.,,Story - 7/10,The story is OK. Definitely not as good as the first game. The story was actually going pretty good up until the Abby portion. I know what the writers were trying to convey, but by us playing as Abby for what seemed like forever, it seemed to diminish the anger we had from Joel's death. And it wasn't because I started to see things from Abby's side. It was because we were focusing so much on her that I started to forget about Joel. Abby's story was kind of boring.,,I was hoping for a happy ending, but I understand why they didn't go that route and it doesn't affect my score. My score was affected by 2 things. The OK-ish story and the fact that they pulled an MGS2 on us.,,Now comes the easy part.,Graphics - 10/10,Not alot needs to be said here. This is top tier stuff. How did they get the lips to move so well?,,Sound - 10/10,Again. Not alot to be said. The score was fantastic. Sound effects were great and made me flinch many times.,,Gameplay - ??,I'm bad at reviewing this stuff. I played good. *shrug*,,Other -,Loading screens! I could die and then be right back in the game within 5 seconds. It was amazing.
2051) you wait years to play with the characters you love, but barely play, I mean Ellie and Joel. yes, technically the game is almost impeccable, but the heart of the game that is the story is poor and forced. the best parts are those that refer to the first game and the relationship between Joel and Ellie. but I wouldn't say it's worth 26 hours of your time
2052) Story is garbage. The wrong person gets revenge. And the fact you play as this person makes me to never want to play this game again
2053) Why are we still here...just to suffer? Every night, I can feel my leg...and my arm...even my fingers...the body I’ve lost...the comrades I’ve lost...won’t stop hurting...it’s like they’re still there. You feel it too, don’t you? I’m gonna make them give back our past
2054) I can't believe the absolute garbage game that this was. I will not give any spoilers if you still want to play it. I thought everybody was exaggerating on the internet but no this game is truly garbage.
2055) the story in my opinion was not good to want to accept a new character in a very forced way.  Joel's death was not the death he deserved
2056) You know, I am now a bitter and hatred person, although my words may attack you,,But even this kind of me is worthy of your forgiveness?,You have no choice, because I have already chosen for you.,You will forgive me.
2057) Doesn't really innovative from the last game, the story is below average compared to the last game, feels like they're trying to push the dry and edgy side too much. While the main theme violence begets violence flops pretty hard as you wade through nameless soldiers who repeat the same lines.worth the horrendous crunch the devs were made to do. The accessibility options are a nice addition.
2058) The graphics are phenomenal and the sound design is honestly amazing. However that's where all the fun ends. The gameplay is basically the same as the last game but with 2 notable improvements, going prone and dodging in melee combat. The latter is nice to make combat feel more involved instead of spamming the melee button and heat-seeking swing the enemy. The former is also nice but these two additions don't justify the rest of the game. The story is one of the biggest failures at an attempt at writing I've ever seen. I'm actually insulted by the audacity of not just the writers for making this mess but the upper-management for giving this dumpster-fire the greenlight. They actively trash established characterization and personality traits established in the first game and make characters idiots and terrible to make you hate them. If you enjoyed the The Last of Us Part 1, I would highly recommend that you do not play this because it will tarnish your memory of the well-written characters from the first game. Nothing about the narrative is neither coherent or consistent. The more I played, the more obvious it became that the writers are aspiring Hollywood writers that never made it in film or television and decided to use the game as an attempt to show off their craft. Unfortunately they never made it in film or television for a legitimate reason, which is that they're terrible at writing and sadly the game has to suffer for it.
2059) When a company lies about its product just to sell it, i think that is telling enough. Deceiving campaign, poor writing, unlikable characters unrecognizable from the first one...and the others new are even worse. They are just going trought the stupid cliche "everybody can die" already seen in TWD, but in a very dumb way. A pathetic revenge story...totally disconnected from the contest and the characters, in the end it's totally **** up on his own concept. Are you telling me that no one of the 13256777422568743 npc murdered has no relatives? Techimcally is good, but i don't play a game just for the graphic...and the gameplay is far from beimg deep and complex.,A sequel that no one asked for and no one deserve, rip tlou.
2060) This game is a story based game and this is why I give it the rating I have as the game chokes the already perfectly built story from the previous game. The old characters are unrecognisable and new characters are bleak and uninteresting.,The whole game is a waste of time as nothing actually gets accomplished its 25 hours of pure garbage and waste of time. The only reason someone would enjoy this is if they were in denial of what happened during the game or they enjoy the gameplay only which is also MEH hasn't changed a lot from the first game. A few cosmetic innovations here and there however, it doesn't fix the awful story that is trying to teach you politics and how revenge is bad.,Joel who we started this franchise with and as a matter of fact has carried this franchise to where it is now gets killed in the first HOUR!!! This was only done to pander to the SJW crowd and was executed in the poorest way possible to make Joel look like a little B****. Half the game is spent playing as a character that you don't even like and never end up liking by the need of the game no matter how hard the story writers try to make you feel sympathy for her. When she is the one that kills Joel. The ending is probably one of the worst in history of any entertainment product to push a message. 7 YEARS FOR THIS not worth one penny. Not even worth for Free.,,If you enjoy games that push messages left right and centre and have stories that are meaningless or that can be told better in other entertainment products and having 25 hours to waste. Then this is the game for you. 0/10 is the most fair a 1/10 would be pushing it. #F***NaughtyDog
2061) Unlike most, I really didn't mind the story. I also thought the gameplay and visuals were brilliant. My issue was having to play this new character called Abby. I couldn't care less about her and approximately 50% of the game you play as her. She's hollow, uninteresting and unlikable and I just couldn't connect with her the same way I did with Joel and Ellie in part 1.,,I ended up reducing the difficult to very light. I had no desire to improve skills and gun specs. I stopped looting vaults and cupboards/drawers altogether. Despite all of this, her parts still felt like an eternity. It completely ruined the game for me.
2062) Well done Sony. Well done Naughty Dog. Well done Mr.Neil Druckmann.Have fun.
2063) Gameplay, graphics, music... everything else from the game is awesome. Except stupid plot logic and narcissistic writers ruined all of this and made the game joke of century.
2064) Well hopefully this doesn't get deleted...guess what people...people think its a terrible game. While the graphics are amazing that means jack when the story is utter garbage. Gameplay felt the same as first so that didnt bother me but as a single player game the story is so cruical to its success  and this story failed miserably. They turned joe into a complete idiot to get him killed. Then ellie goes on a revenge spree and doesnt even get the pay off at the end. Sorry in a post apocalyptic world you dont let a person just walk away out of mercy. Thats probably the dumbest crap ive played in a long time.,Notice how i didnt bring up any LGBT or anything else like that? You know why? Because it didnt bother me but the fanboys apparently think since you didnt like the game you are some homophobic person which makes no excuse. Some of the biggest youtubers absolutely hate this games story as well. Are they homophobic? Are they review bombing it to bomb it? No and no. Stop trying to create a invisible enemy to try to defend a crappy game with a even crappier story.
2065) It ain't much, but it's honest work.    .
2066) **** all the game companies and writers that force their political views on video games. **** story, Joel deserved better, and Abby deserved to ****ing die.
2067) I could forgive everything for this game, BUT NOT ONLY A **** IDIOTIC PLOT! I DON'T UNDERSTAND WHY IT WAS TO KILL JOEL? WHY WERE ABBY LEFT LIVING? WHY HAS IT BEEN AT ALL TO MAKE SUCH A STUPID PLOT? THE DEVELOPERS COULD MAKE EVERYTHING SIMPLY, COULD MAKE THAT ELLI HAS DESCRIBED THAT JOEL WOULD HAVE HER IT, WHICH SHE WANTED TO SEE WITH IT IN THE BEGINNING OF THE GAME. HERE AND EVERYTHING, Noghty Dog, GAME OF SUCCESS OF THE GAME. I WAS WAITING FOR THIS GAME 7 **** YEARS !!!
2068) Horrible...,This game will make you excited just for it to be over, ive never seen such bad decisions in a big game like this.
2069) Awful story, wasting characters, false trailer, and ruined one of the best game series.
2070) This game is not a game. Last of Earth hasn't got a part two yet. My time is not light enough to waste on such a thing.
2071) Thanks ND, you managed to make me hate on of my most beloved franchises and is not only because of Joel but because the whole **** the campaign was and how it looks like it was written by a pre teen cringey story. Oh and good job metacritict removing bad reviews, however the damage is already done and everybody that has better thing to waste is money on will not buy this cashgrab.
2072) Just no, the graphics was good but stort went FUBAR. With all the SJW's elements that they gave us i regret buying this game with all my heart :(
2073) This might be the most unsatisfying game I've ever played. The story and how horribly it played out is unjustifiable. Regardless of the message the writers were trying to send to the viewer about "revenge" none of the games characters that existed in the first game ever felt true to the original. Joel and Tommy in the second game come off as idiots with an affinity for wanting to walk into lion dens with meat around their bodies. Which ends up being the biggest plot point in the entire game. The entire reason things pan out the way they do is based on a writing flaw. If you wanted to kill a character at least make it true to the character. In this case that wasn't done. This also doesn't take into account the pregnancy fetish that the writers seem to have. For almost the entire game you're escorting around a pregnant woman while you're both being "total badasses". While I am all for making women look strong in video games. This felt so forced that it leaves a bad taste in almost everyones mouth. We might as well talk about how poorly paced the game is. You are for about 12 hours of gameplay playing through a 2 day period through the perspective of two different characters. Both being insanely unlikable. While doing absolutely ridiculously unbelievable **** Like having a pregnant ally running around doing more work then an Army soldier in the trenches of an all out war or getting surrounded my enemies and someway shooting yourself through it all as a teenage girl with 12 rounds of ammo in a semi auto revolver. For this 12 hour time span you also have to play as the anatagonist for half of it. (HOW COOL. VERY VERY ORIGINAL DEVS.) With the anatagonist somehow being even more unlikeable then the now main protagonist Ellie. The time spent playing as Abby (The antagonist) is painful and will leave the player questioning if it's even worth making it to the ending of the game or if they should uninstall the game and play something else. Now I will say this idea isn't entirely bad if the gameplay wasn't insanely repetitive. Literally the entire game is. Go here, Kill People/Infected,  Do the objective, Oh wait can't do this objective til I do this other objective there, Go there, Kill People/Infected, Do the objective, Go back, Kill People/Injected, Complete objective. This cycle occurs constantly through the game. The only nuance that exists between combat encounters is whenever you finally get a new weapon but even then it get's boring quick and it happens so unoften that it doesn't improve really anything. With all that being said. To the devs I must say. Playing as Abby was a horrible idea. Killing Joel was done so bad that it's unjustifiable. Pregnant women aren't Superman, Your characters aren't as likeable as you think they are. Your pacing choices made the game so grueling to play that the FBI could legitmately use your game as a torture method. The message about revenge you were trying to convey isn't new or cool or necessary. If you had nothing story wise. Just don't make another game. Your franchise is dead now. The devs look like complete jokes. Good job. Thanks for wasting everyones time and money.
2074) Bad ever ever of the time story If you want find a best endding or everything good in this game, it is big mistake ever you give
2075) It's Absolutely horrible. Why is this game even made. Who said it was right to create this!?, They should do a total Retake
2076) Fu*king gay s*it they arruinead a great character only for propaganda mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
2077) Neil Druckmann - not a creator, but just a populist. Spoil such a good history with your miserable beliefs.
2078) Gayest scene ever, politics everywhere, I cannot play the game because of this
2079) The first game was one of the most exhilarating experiences I've ever had while gaming. I'm not saying the game is bad, however, the marketing and the articles I see online about it are are a bit infuriating since most  of them do not seem to care about the game per se.,,One thing, most game developers that "try to be inclusive" seem to miss is that there have been strong female protagonists Tomb Raider, Resident Evil, Nier, Metroid,  Horizon, Mass Effect, Dragon Age, and queer/trans characters in video games with options to romance them for decades.,,This "woke" approach is nothing new, nothing special and gamers do not care or want to be represented in any way in a game. What Naughty Dog did was a small inclusion of a group of people yet the game's makerting seems to revolve around the support to the LGBTQ+ community. Gamers don't really care if a character is straight/gay/trans/bi or something else, they care for a story and character development, much the same in the way of a book or movie.,,There are books or movies that leave you empty after you finish them, you're not always satisfied with the end but the problem here different. The feeling is quite similar to Game of Thrones' season 8 Deus Ex Machina that ignored character development to come up to an easy conclusion to end it all.,,We were expecting another harrowing experience of Joel and Ellie but got somewhat of a backhand slap killing off Joel in the beginning of the game for Ellie's "character development".
2080) Disappointing. the worst game ever created by Naughty Dog. After 7 years of waiting, I expected something more involving. of this game you save only the graphics, for the rest trash
2081) Zero resfect to players.,Im pay to game  not A R T.,예술을 하시려면 새로운 ip에서 하시고  원작을 망치지맙시다.
2082) I was hoping for a great story like the first game, but instead I got Macho Ma'am's Golfing Simulator. Thanks for ruining a great franchise ****
2083) My first impressions about this game was great, the graphics, the mechanics, everything was awesome, even being able to play guitar with Joel, damn this makes my heart beat faster, but everything ruined due to one moment, beyond this moment every single scene I felted forced to play something terrible, like.. imagine having an enemy that you hate so much, you want to kill him so damn hard, and in metter of hours being forced to play with him, this is unimaginable, I hated this game because everything they showed us in the first game its gone and they forced us to like something we wouldn’t like to see, not to mention the ending, the end sucks, no emotions, no nothing, feels like they were trying to replay the end of Death Stranding or solid snake vs liquid snake with no emotion
2084) Yeah Well, Naughty Dog just shat on whole 1 part od The series, burying Joel so early on. Naughty dog are just some masochists that want you to feel nad while playing the game, I mean really we have to play as Abby and nobody I mean NOBODY thinks that she is a good developed character. Plot feels like every season of 13 reasons besides the first good one.
2085) worst game ever,please don't frame up this game score,worst game ever,please don't frame up this game score
2086) i cried bc of how badly this game let my boy down. #JusticeForJoel,There better be a 3rd game where it is revealed this was all just a BAD dream.
2087) It's a mind breaking game. The story writer ruined the whole game. Joel died without meaning or dignity. I think the author hates Joel very much and is against the players. Let players play the role of murderers attacking our favorite characters. The whole story is to express Ellie's revenge behavior is meaningless, the character's behavior is like an idiot. I don't know what fun players can have in this crappy game. Last of us part 2 is anti human junk.
2088) This game does not deserve 10/10, max 5/10 cause the story is complete fking garbage and those who are defending it or something are completely retarded. Gameplay, graphics are good, but who cares about that when the story is actually trash and you don't want to continue the game. I got so disappointed with this game.
2089) Nice movie "game" lmao. As a movie it doesn't even have good story narration.
2090) waste of time for empty story and Shallow characters and some times you fell like its written world not an open world
2091) This franchise is all about the story. Without the story the game means nothing. This game does have great visuals and great gameplay, but the main focus needs to be the story. The story just isn’t good and it tries too hard to make you feel sorry for people that you immediately don’t want to feel sorry for. And the ending tries so hard to make you feel sad, without making any logical sense.My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined.,I waited 5 years to play this,And they gave me a horrible intro and **** ending,I just want to forget about this game.
2092) To the people who wrote the story , just get a life mdudes ! There is a difference between a game and a blog post !!
2093) Probably one of the worst games I have ever played. I am not going to touch the fact that identity politics was so obviously forced on the game since that doesn't really matter nor it bothers me. But the fact that the writing and storytelling are absolute disgusting makes the game worth nothing. I wish I would have spent all these hours doing something else.
2094) Disappointing... The original game wasn't even that good, but the characters and story were so good, that they drew you in, and made you forget how awful the controls and gameplay were...  In this one, they slightly improved the controls and gameplay, but completely ruined the story, and pissed all over the original characters, negating the technical improvements.... If most people knew that this was the route they were going to take, there would have been a lot less clamoring for a sequel.
2095) Simple...Looks great, but story isn't compelling or interesting.  It's like a polished turd.  It's nice and shiny, but it's still just a turd.  First one had more of a wow factor than this one.
2096) The whole story is just to support the LGBT (no offense) with emotional moments and a lot of irrational events. I think it could have been so much better with that much money and time spent for making this game.,In my opinion, compared to the first part, it only had better visual graphics.,Personally, I was going to buy the PlayStation 5 just because of this game.  I'm really glad I didn't do this and I finished the game on my friend's device.,When a game becomes so popular, it is expected that the creators of the game will pay attention to what people like, rather than trying to normalize a series of things that are not yet acceptable in society.  That way, you'll only mess with the game version, and people will probably be skeptical of the company's next Game.
2097) Literally hyped trash without any gameplay. Bad Naughty Dogs, very bad,Do not waste your time and money
2098) I seriously hate Abby. You could've made a buff woman and gave her a better role and personality but you didn't, wow so innovative
2099) The worst sequel EVER!,Crap story and nonesense ending.,Fire Neil Druckmann.
2100) Besides graphics and gameplay  a boring story and no multiplayer this game isn’t for me wish I didn’t buy it brand new would’ve waited until it was used and sold for a very low price before purchasing it,Honestly I wish they continued on the virus like maybe there’s people that are immune  but they are attracted to human flesh I don’t know I just wish they went in a different direction
2101) If you love Joel and Ellie in Last of Us...,JUST DON"T PLAY THIS.,It's not a game,it is a mental pollution.
2102) This game is trash the story line is so **** worst I have to play SpongeBob game, do not buy the last of us part 2
2103) This is the worst disrespect i have ever seen someone do with characters and world of a game. The writing is absolutely on the wrong side, it feels out of place sometimes and it doesn't make sense at all. Sadly, the amazing environment created in this game can't fix any of the flaws the story has. A true failure. For me this game never came out.
2104) I can't believe this game f**k me just like the Cov-19. I wish it was never released.
2105) Hope Neil Druckmann's house is full of golf clubs.,Show me a hint of remorse. Don't ignore the arrow of anger.
2106) I wrote a long review about why this game is terrible, but the site wouldn't let me upload it. Doesn't mean you shouldn't avoid it.
2107) Give players choose to kill or not to kill at last fight. And you will see did someone really understand your idea. But you don't believe in your own plot, that can't convince anyone.
2108) game mode is perfect but game story is what the shix icant give this suck story ever 0.00000000000.......1 score
2109) Horrible, History, making loved character into completely idiots ignoring the fact of how they have bben living their lives now on, waste of potential for the old characters in the new history, a horrible representation of the LGBT Community are just some of the things that make this game so terrible and annoying to play
2110) Gotta say even getting past the fact that no one likes the whole, new character no one cares about beats up old beloved character to show how cool they are thing, you gotta wonder what they were thinking. The writing is so laughably bad it treats you as if you have a toddler's understanding of morality and has to beat you over the head with the core message so hard and in such an unsubtle way that what was supposed to be a shocking twist becomes an obvious slow decline.,,Yeah Neil, I get it, revenge bad. Stop pretending everyone with even vague criticism for this game are bigots or something, some people just have functional frontal lobes and can notice an obvious drop in quality between the two games.
2111) **** you Neil Abby killing off joel isn’t ****ing cool you could’ve come up with a better death one where he sacrificed himself for ellie but no your stupid alien man child named abby had to kill him **** this game **** it to hell
2112) The game does its best to make you feel worse and worse as you play then finishes with no pay off and ruins some of the greatest characters in videogame history. The people who made this should be ashamed.
2113) Ah yes, looked forward to this game for a while and what I received was horrid.,,You know that something is awry when you play the game just for completion sake and to get it off your to-do-list so you can un-install it and make a ticket asking Sony to remove it from library..and they can keep the money too.,,This is just an insult to the fans of the original. I'm sad and disappointed.
2114) It’s just the worst game ever made the storyline is horrible and gameplay looks like a ps2 game
2115) Stop deleting reviews. That game is so ass and trash. Stop sucking sony so hard.
2116) What a waste of money, game makes you feel like trash when you finish it, it’s 1/10 for me
2117) Destroyed the story from the first game jus to fit sjw agenda. Just another great series destroyed.
2118) I don't have a metacritic account, I have been a heavy gamer for almost 20 years. I have never written any game reviews in my life.,,And I have just finished my registration here just because I want to say thank you so much for ruining my my life with a video game
2119) This game is **** The graphics are amazing if not the best ever but the whole point of the game (the story is **** I'm so mad at naughty dog for destroying this game. The last of us is one of my favorite games ever and i think it's one of the best if not the best games ever. But what they did to this game destroys my heart.
2120) The game as a whole is really not good. They use a random character as the antagonist, someone who we never see or hear about from the first game, but suddenly has an in depth back story, and just appears then kills Joel after the first hour. The game is lacking something to strive for, each time you complete what your current "main objective" is, there isn't really any payoff, they just move onto something else, and you never really feel fulfilled. There are multiple main characters who just get dry, few second long deaths for no apparent reason, no build up to something happening, just walking into a room, and boom they're dead. Then after that you're forced to play through the back story of Abby, with no real goal at all, just a character saying "hey lets go here" and you go there, something bad happens, and you continue. It's all in an effort to make you feel bad for the antagonist and try to make you switch sides as you go through the game. But overall, it's all implemented poorly and makes the game a struggle to go through.
2121) I’m not sure what the developers were trying to achieve with the numerous and obvious shoehorning of homosexual and trans themes throughout the game, but all it did was make the characters feel obnoxious and unrealistic. What’s worse is that it felt as if they were so adamant in pushing their political views that they felt it was justified enough to bury the entire framework of the original games story under the rug. However in the case of this game, they didn’t just bury the original games story, they trampled and beat it to death, as exemplified with Joel’s death so early in the game and being replaced with an unrealistically physiqued new character Abby.
2122) I don’t like if someone wants to pass his sick gay thoughts into my head the game doesn’t have real story the whole thing the waek story the gameplay the graphics all because of the director want to to pass his sick ideas
2123) I created an account just so that I can give this review.,,If you're still on the fence about buying this game, then I implore you to give it a chance. I'll try to explain why so without spoiling anything about the game.,,Before we get to the controversy, remember that this company is still Naughty Dog. You're still getting a game that's a visual and technical masterpiece, with an attention to detail that is unseen almost anywhere else in the industry.,,Now the for controversy. Is the story as good as the first game? No, I don't think it is. The writers decided to go in a new direction (which I applaud), but the landing wasn't as perfect. But I still think it's a great story, easily one of the best I've seen on the PS4. Now that's my opinion from playing the game. And as you've seen, enough people think otherwise.,,But the point is that you have to play it to make a decision for yourself. I bought the game know many people hated it, but I still was willing to give it a chance. And I'm happy that I did so.,,The only way you will know for sure is if you do so as well.
2124) -Bad story even though it's a story driven game .,-Boring Generic outdated Game play.,-Characters made stupid for plot convenience.,-False advertising in trailers.,-Unsatisfying ending that makes everything that happened in the story worthless.,-Playing as a character that the game makes you hate for like 10 hours.,-Killing loved characters from the first game illogically for shock value.,-Most of the game is a walking simulator with cringy dialogue.,-Uncomfortable Cut scenes that get shoved down your throat to remind you of the character's sexuality.,-Fans waited 7 years to play as a character that was killed in the first 2 hours,,In conclusion:Worst game of the decade,only buy it if you want to waste money.
2125) -----------------ENGLISH--------------------,,As a TLOU fan I can only be disappointed. And angry.,,For me it is a ZERO. A zero because it has thrown to the ground all my illusions accumulated since the announcement of the game. A zero because the experience of playing has been unpleasant in all narrative aspects. I have not enjoyed the game. Nor of history. A game created to please the popular "collectives". But a game should not be politicized. For the harsh reality we already have life itself.,,+5 years waiting for the sequel and when they give it to you they destroy it at the very beginning of the game, forcing you to play with a hated character and offering you an unsatisfactory ending. They could have made a decent game with SpinOffs, but no, they have had to tear apart the most beloved characters in favor of politicized criticism. There is no more to see the criticism of the "specialized" press compared to the criticism of the users. At first I thought that these negative reviews were due to "Fans" who wanted to burst the note, since with so little time it was impossible to rate the game. But I was wrong. With 2 hours of game you can already rate it with a suspense if you are one of those who loved the characters in the first part. The game has a sublime story, yes, worthy of a movie "blah blah blah", but now you can forget about enjoying all your favorite characters from the first part. EVERYONE. In short, **** that big.,,I also feel SCAMED, since in the trailers they trick you into thinking that you are going to play with some characters and then you discover that in the game those same scenes have the characters changed. I have bought a game that has misleading advertising and that should be legally punished so that it is not repeated in the future.,,€ 70 thrown away. For me TLOU2 does not exist. The story ends at the end of TLOU1.,,For all these reasons, my grade is ZERO.,,-----------------ESPAÑOL-------------------,,Como fan de TLOU solo puedo sentirme decepcionado. Y enfadado.,,Para mí es un CERO. Un cero porque ha tirado por tierra todas mi ilusiones acumuladas desde el anuncio del juego. Un cero porque la experiencia jugando ha sido desagradable en todos los aspectos narrativos. No he disfrutado del juego. Ni tampoco de la historia. Un juego creado para contentar a los "colectivos" reivindicativos populares. Pero un juego no debería politizarse. Para la cruda realidad ya tenemos la vida misma.,,+5 años esperando la secuela y cuando te la dan te la destrozan al inicio mismo del juego, obligándote a jugar con un personaje odiado y ofreciéndote un final insatisfactorio. Podrían haber hecho un juego digno con SpinOffs, pero no, han tenido que destrozar los personajes más queridos en favor de las críticas politizadas. No hay más que ver las críticas de la prensa "especializada" en comparación con las críticas de los usuarios. Al principio pensé que dichas críticas negativas se debían a "Fanáticos" que querían reventar la nota, ya que con tan poco tiempo era imposible valorar el juego. Pero me equivoqué. Con 2 horas de juego ya puedes calificarlo con un suspenso si eres de los que adoraban los personajes de la primera parte. El juego tiene una historia sublime, sí, digno de película "bla bla bla", pero ya te puedes ir olvidando de disfrutar de todos tus personajes preferidos de la primera parte. TODOS. En resumen, una mierda así de grande.,,Además me siento ESTAFADO, ya que en los trailers te engañan para que pienses que vas a jugar con unos personajes y luego descubres que en el juego esas mismas escenas tiene los personajes cambiados. Me he comprado un juego que tiene publicidad engañosa y eso debería ser penado legalmente para que no se repita en el futuro.,,70€ tirados a la basura. Para mi TLOU2 no existe. La historia termina en el final de TLOU1.,,Por todo ello mi nota es un CERO.
2126) Visual: 9/10 Looks really awesome! The best graphics in this generation!,,Gameplay: 6/10 very similar to the first game, long and repetitive. For 2-3 hours of play, 2 minutes of story.  Much of the second half of the game gets boring.,,Story: 4/10 Classic revenge story that you can find in any movie with a lot of plot holes. That the game forces you to play with the antagonist for 10 hours, seems to me the worst possible decision. When you play with an antagonist you have to have some connection with that character and empathize with her, and that is impossible since she has killed the best video game character in the first hours of the game.,,6/4. Disappointing sequel. To do this, better not.
2127) The game is absolute garbage, the Sony Ghostbusters Female production of video games.
2128) This game is sjw trash, don't play it you will thank me later.,,I wonder why American are trying to destroy their own culture i wonder, as mexican your "new" culture is not welcome in my country.
2129) I played TLOU 1 on ps3 but..... this one, i didn't like the characters development and the forced homosexuality in the game. I feel like it's way unrealistic and very forced
2130) (Russian review text below/русский текст обзора внизу),Eng :,Advantages of the game: good graphics, interesting gameplay,,Minuses :,Well, compared to the first part, the game is bottom to bottom. In the first part, we played for Joel and watched his relationship with Ellie, this was the highlight of the game. It’s enough to recall how Joel treated her calmly at the beginning and what sacrifices he went to at the end.,No matter how much the Cicada assured us, there was no guarantee that Ellie's death would help in creating the medicine, because they already had patients with similar immunity. So there was no point in leaving Ellie for an autopsy.,In the second part, they show us Joel, an idiot who could not tell during Ellie’s hysteria how dear to him she was and tell her that the Cicadas had deceived her about the vaccine ... Yes, maybe the first time he couldn’t explain of this, but it was necessary to try more ...,Also, the minus of the game is LGBT propaganda, a dumb story about revenge, if Ellie killed so many people, then she could have killed this pumped-over transgender man ...,Since things had to be finished first and then cried and remembered Joel ...,Apparently, as soon as Drakman left the second screenwriter of the first part of the game, he began to write all kinds of nonsense in the script, it is a pity that so many years of developing the game have been merged into a pipe ...,,Рус :,Плюсы игры : хорошая графика,интересный геймлей,,Минусы :,Чтож, по сравнению с первой частью игра дно дна.В первой части мы играли за Джоуэля и наблюдали за его отношением с Элли,это и была изюминка игры.Достаточно вспомнить как Джоуэль к ней хладнокровно относился в начале и на какие жерты пошёл в конце.,Как бы нас не уверяли Цикады,не было гарантии что смерть Элли поможет в создании лекарства ,ибо у них уже были пациэнты с подобным иммунитетом. Поэтому не было смысла оставлять Элли на вскрытие.,Во второй же части нам показывают Джоуэля,каким-то идиотом,который не смог сказать во время истерики Элли,насколько она ему дорога и рассказать ей ,что Цикады её обманули,насчёт вакцины...Да,возможно с первого раза не удалось бы объяснить этого ,но нужно было стараться больше...,Также минусом игры есть пропаганда ЛГБТ ,тупой сюжет про месть,если Элли убила столько людей,то она бы уже могла прикончить этого перекаченого мужика трансгендера...,Так как дела сначала нужно было закончить и потом уже плакать и вспоминать Джоуэля...,Видимо ,как только Дракмана покинул второй сценарист первой части игры,то он начал писать всякий бред в сценарий,жалко что столько лет разработки игры слито в трубу...
2131) It's just bad. How do you **** up a game that had a perfect starter but have a game where you botch up 2 great characters. You messed up characters just to get the end result rather having them stay true to their original self.
2132) The history Is so bad, they change a lot the actors and the final Is so stupid that Is a few of problems un this game
2133) Joel's death was rushed, then we get to play as Abby, the ending is basically "revenge bad".
2134) The last of us 2 the most anticipated sequel to a video ends up being one of the most disappointing sequels .,Characters and Story,None of the new characters are interesting or likeable, plot is drawn out and boring. Character deaths feel forced, lazy and cheap. Joel a major character in the game gets killed of 2 hours into the game just for shock value and just used as a plot device for Ellie's revenge. The game tries to make you to try and feel sympathy for this new character Abby but it doesn't work after what she did to Joel. Ellie doesn't get her revenge making her journey seem pointless and ends up losing everything at the end which makes it hopeless, playing 20 hours of a game just for a unsatisfying conclusion.,,Gameplay and visuals,,Visually this game looks great atmosphere and locations look stunning, riding through Seattle, the part where they are on the island and the houses of the island is burning looks absolutely great   gameplay remains the same just some new added features like the jump and dodge button, not much but it remains okay.,,4/10
2135) The first game was ok I'd give 6/10. Objectively is not a good GAME, it's a good movie but as a game is lacking. You could have made this game in the 2000's and gameplay wise It would be the same, so for that reason I don't like It. AI sucks and halfway through is getting repetitive, and you can't argue with that, you may not care but I do and It's important 'cause this is a game not a movie. As a movie it's good, I did not like it but that's my opinion.,Now the second game, I've heard they fixed some aspects of the gameplay but is also repetitive. If this game had a story as good as the first one, It'd have a better score. But guess what, It's worse. I did not play it, I would not even play it if it was free. I've read the spoilers before the game was released and I thought "I get the point of the story and what's trying to do but is poorly executed". Here it's the game and people pretty much hate it. I didn't need to make this review but I wanted to 'cause f*** this dudes, they are deleting review, not cool.
2136) Very poorly scripted story. I’m very disappointed. Wish I could get a refund.
2137) WTF Story  **** my time Wtf nill dr...,Never play again never. My ending is last of us 1ending . I remove in my head about this trash story
2138) they ruined the **** game with the sexuality that no one want to see in games,its been a big mistake to do it in big lines like this game
2139) I made an account to talk about this game. Don't Read this Review, Play the game and form your own opinion. Naughty dog kills it again with a sequel that expands on every aspect of first game. while being one of the very few developers who aren't afraid to push boundaries and be ambitious. this is one of the series you CANNOT miss.,,Also, who made up the lie that Abby was Trans it was never mentioned once... and the sex scene is like 4 seconds long. guys, chill.
2140) The graphics are par for the course but most egregious are the gameplay is significantly worse constantly stunlocked making forcing complete cover based waiting game between the hours long cutscenes and exposition exposition oh did you know NPC?  Oh no NPC is dead don't you feel so bad?  Yes I feel bad the story is awful  the idea of removing fun from a cideo GAME was just a bit too much 'subversion' well I hope the sales numbers subverts the expectations too.  Rip
2141) far below what was expected, bland story, filler in the game, not being able to sympathize with the characters, very forced arguments
2142) Hated playing as the stupid anti hero why would it ever be a good idea to play as the villian who killed a character I have loved for 7 years only to hunt Ellie down in the end just like David from the first game
2143) The worst game of 2020. I just don't see how you can release this and call it a sequel to TLOU. A terrible plot, a terrible elaboration of side characters. And the main question is why are all the female characters so scary? All cutscenes are simply destroyed by these bogeymen and simply the most disgusting dialogues.
2144) Get woke, go broke.,Fortunately, most gamers are intelligent enough to spot the completely unnecessary globo-homo agenda propaganda thats invading all forms of media in an attempt to normalize leftist degeneracy.
2145) Disgustingly bad story, even worse pacing. if you are buying this for its story you are gonna have a bad time.
2146) Horrible gameplay at the 2013 level. Cartoon characters. I don’t understand why critics put such assessments. The game is not worth the money!
2147) An awful way to end this generation. I don’t have high hopes for Ghost of Tsushima, but I hope it will surprise us and end this generation with a perfect story, gameplay, and graphics.
2148) Just a waste of time and "history" for the worst ending saga ever... it's not about being homophobic, it's about common sense.
2149) most disappointing game i've played in many many years, My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined.
2150) Kaka poo poo game they Killed Joel and I hate them it is GAAEEEEEEE it make me DISGUST! Boo boo gay agenda gay agenda **** you naughtydog you think you made art but you were just supposed to make a game BAD GAMD BAD GAME
2151) This story is one of the most jumbled up pieces of garbage ive ever had the displeasure if playing through, in glad i could get a full refund still after beating this game because not a single dollar of it was worth my money at all.
2152) imo a horrible sequel to a masterpiece. all i wanted was a sequel about ellie and joel's relationship going further like father and daughter.
2153) Good graphics good gameplay but the story is absolute trash . **** you neil druckmann  for being a simp and Anita Sarkeesian little ****
2154) The site is so **** i already made an essay but the site didn't register it so no
2155) Pure garbage of game, the first one is a work of art but they just ruined this 2nd part with its horrible story and inclusions.,The graphics are great and also the gameplay but everything else is dog poop
2156) Oh man, where to begin on this.,,Background, I am an avid lover of the first last of us, the story was amazing.,,However, there are a ton of significant issues related to this game,,Graphics: Graphically speaking this game is amazing it is one of the best produced games for the PS4 that I have ever seen.  Grass flows realistically, areas look spacious, etc,,Sound Design: Again, no issue here, same as the first last of us, detailed and perfect. Sounds are realistic, everything from reactions from personnel and bullets wizzing overhead, death sounds, All incredibly detailed and realistic.,,Gameplay: The same as the last of us 1, only with the added prone position.  Combat is improved, but nothing remarkable. Easily considered mediocre of all the things you can note.,,Story: The story is disjointed and hot garbage.  At the midpoint in the story you have Ellie kill a pregnant woman which evidently affects her negatively despite killing hundreds of people before getting to that scene in graphic ways and using expletives.  The game drags on, instead of ending at 15 ish hours or so.  This could've been effectively two different games and the motivations dont seem convincing at all. You jump between flashbacks, and different characters,,Overall: People play the last of us for the story, everything else in the game (gameplay, sound design, and graphics) are intended to complement the story to make it more realistic. The story is an unconvincing, disjointed mess and is a poor representation of what the series could be. Skip it and buy something that remains true to characters and doesnt just write "surprises" into the game to generate views.
2157) Naughty Dog use character as only a story guide. Character's nature? They killed. They are NOT The Last of Us maker.
2158) Sound 9/10,Story 0/10,Graphics 8/10,Characters 0/10,Gameplay 4/10,,If you loved TLOU, don't play this sequel, save those 60 euros for cyberpunk 2077 or Ghost of Tsushima,It is style until the last jedi, the story, the narrative, the plot, the script the characters do not make sense, the development of the characters is little or nothing,,When the situation gets spicy, we have flashbacks that break the rhythm of the game.,The game becomes boring, very repetitive more or less from the middle to the end especially the parts you play as abby, and a mechanic that I hate in video games; quick time events.,And the only credible review from the video game press is  IGN Japan when it says there are boring new characters.,,Naughty Dog tries to "subvert expectations" by creating a clash of forced ideology and politics.,The last 12 hours are terribly boring, you just want to get to the end fast and kill the final boss, and refund the game in the store.,The game fails from the start, Joel would never have trusted a stranger.,,Both Joel and his brother knew the Fireflies will be looking for him, or at least they should expect that after purging the whole building of Fireflies. But instead they get surrounded by armed strangers and they just gave out their real names like dummies. Like hi, my brother here, his name is JOEL.,,This game deserves a 3/10 maximum.,,The video game press and ND emphasize that the game is about revenge, but in the end that long-awaited revenge does not come, after killing everyone, you do not kill the "Villain", because in the last second you realized that "circle of revenge is bad" WTF?!!, an unsatisfactory anticlimactic ending,,the ending is a **** cliche!!!!!,,The trailer of 09/24/19 is false, it makes us believe that the one who covers our mouth is Joel but no, surprise is jesse !! This should be able to be reported for misleading advertising.,,My disappointment is immeasurable and my day is ruined.,Naughty Dog has made an effort so that the game is not fun it has succeeded.,,On a technical level it was more or less what was expected BUT the history is pure garbage. 0/10
2159) a horrible story telling with a poor skill. the experience of this game is a nightmare, I feel shame for bought and played it.
2160) Nice graphics, nice gameplay, **** story, feels like GoT last season, joel lives matters
2161) Fantastic game for anyone who isn't a pathetic incel whose complete lack of masculinity is threatened by the idea of a gay female protagonist.
2162) I have nothing to complain about the gameplay, but the main thing was the story and it got really bad
2163) This is most disappointing game of the generation for me. This is a betrayal for the player of part one. And part two didn't provide any new experience.
2164) The first game was a masterpiece of storytelling, with coherent, clever storylines, brilliant and relatable characters and derivative, yet serviceable gameplay.,,This game treats not only it's original cast but also the fans of the first game like **** just to further an agenda.,,The gameplay barely improved and feels outdated and unexciting.,,The graphics are top notch, but does it really matter in such a story driven game? I stopped caring about the graphics mid-game.,,I had to force myself to finish it and I guess I'll be reselling my physical copy as soon as possible.,,I'd suggest to pretend this title doesn't even exists and treat the first game as a self-contained experience. If you really want to buy it, wait for a deep sale or buy it used for cheap.
2165) DON'T BUY IT! This game is total disrespect for the old characters and players. It's like you're forced to eat a steady flow of dogshxt for over 20 hours.
2166) The trailer fraud and serious disrespect to the former players, no one is a favorite new role, and destroyed all the characters created by the former. The unconvincing story and the bad story telling method can only give you discomfort after the end of the game. Although there is amazing performance in the game screen, this work has no soul It's not such a bad work on its own, but it has amazing graphic performance. But if the game is a canon of "the last us", it's worthless
2167) Very bad game,Very bad story,Very bad end... don't buy! Seriously.This is like pretty ****
2168) The graphics  and gameplay are great but the story is very f**kd up what the hell was N.D thinking
2169) I've now concluded most of the meta critics are shills.  You kill the duo that makes the story  amazing with someone no one cares about. Integrating this with politics makes this game even worse.
2170) Although they delete the reviews, we keep putting more.,This game is not 0 but 4 this time yes its a 0
2171) Last of us One was awesome.  This game did nothing to advance the game play and destroyed the story.
2172) It is such a bad idea to make you main storytelling driven by some stupid moral code conflict in a post-apocalypse game, not to mention it comes with all the cliches of pregnancy, love triangle and self-identify... etc.,Oh by the way, I don't understand why the developers cannot see their story has a fatal conflict with the game-play itself. It feels so confusing to force the gamer to think that the NPCs you killed have their life/friends/love/whatever, while making you kill tons more of them without any hesitation.,I tried so hard to understand the story on the creators' side, but still saw nothing but directing failure, and the whole team cannot stop the disaster from happening... Definitely one of the biggest tragedy in game design history, I felt so sorry for those who devote their life and passion towards the game-play
2173) game of the century, the worst.,7 years, a great IP, destroyed by Neil.  You are a shame in the game world. burn in hell.,Political correctness is the most disgusting thing in this world.,The only meaning of this game is to let players recognize the ugly face of the media.
2174) For those who can't take on the role of abby, this game is just a bad tv show like 'the walking dead'.
2175) Disgusting. Disrespectful. My disappointment is beyond words. I wish I never played this giant piece of ****
2176) This game does a huge disservice to the spirit of the first game. They completely ruin the legacy of the first game. Its play is meh and only graphic improvements mean anything in this dumpster fire of a game. The character's actions/choices make absolutely no sense unless you are insane.
2177) Gameplay is exactly the same as the first game. background look great. The plot is awful. I loved Joel, he made the first game awesome, and an hour and a half into the game he gets his face smashed in with a gold club and spit on. Ellie goes on a brutal revenge killing spree but in the end when finally given the chance to kill the person you set out for, decides "killing is bad". Made almost the whole game a pointless... This game is awful. Don't buy it. Play the first game and leave it at that.
2178) The plot of the game is simply bad, nothing to do with its predecessor, the rest very well, but the strong point of the TLOU, is its plot, where it is lazy, it makes you play with a character that really is not worth it, also They believe that we must sympathize with that disgusting character, Joel never trusted anyone and at first trust, no one will believe that, it shows that they only wanted to leave a teaching, but not a good game, a good story, he really deserves this contempt of the fans we had waited so long for.
2179) If "The Last of Us" is about arrogance weighing the value of life, the sequel is about the cycle of revenge. Both are in harmony within the big theme of restoring humanity. But I don't know how many people can endure the arrogance of this sequel. When "The Last of Us" said it was more important to save a single girl in front of eyes than the lives of countless people who could save in the future, it was a courageous ending to take a moral dilemma. The sequel, however, does not understand that revenge is circulated among everyone except the production team, and therefore only the production team can purify the world with special aesthetic and moral judgment. With such an attitude, they insult, belies, manipulates, and preaches those who truly loved the main characters of the previous series. The bottom line is doctrinaire. Even that is nothing more than throwing gamers into the mire of moral relativism. The sequel crossed the line at a time when gamers direct Abby and force the players to learn a lesson.
2180) Good gameplay, music, graphics, animations, sucking and the rest is secondary sh1t ... The storyline is 0. The final is 0. The game is not for Ellie - hellish torment, I wanted to lose to the steroid, indifferent to me chick. You crap comrades
2181) This is the bad story for the games, pls dont playing this game never!!!! Bad story, bad gameplay, bad graphics, bad anwyone, pls retry this game, deleted, is not possible.
2182) Game sucks. It’s too long and really doesn’t feel like an interesting story.
2183) Quite possibly the worst story ever. Naughty dog should be disappointed with themselves,the last of us 1 was a Masterpiece.....part 2 pure trash. Too much forced propaganda bs.
2184) #FireNeilDruckmann! The leaks are true, but the game is even worse than I expected. Paid reviews and false advertising. Things you loved about the first one is gone and replaced with questionable motives and actions. Buy this game at your own risk. You have been warned.
2185) he better the graphics and mechanics of the game, the worse the story was, the more I told you, don't buy this game.
2186) I feel really sad to write this but I have waited years and years for this game, seeing this as a  result broke my hearth....
2187) It is not only about the game is good or not, but it is about if the game company is right or not.,It is totally ok for me to play a game with contents that I don't like.,However it is totally not ok for me to see a game company giving me a fake trailer
2188) couldve over looked so much if ellie just killed abby instead we get no payoff to this story it just ends
2189) This franchise is all about the story. Without the story the game means nothing. This game does have great visuals and great gameplay, but the main focus needs to be the story. The story just isn’t good and it tries too hard to make you feel sorry for people that you immediately don’t want to feel sorry for.
2190) I played the original The Last of Us. I fell in love with how much fun it was to play, even more its history. I loved seeing the relationship between Joel and Ellie, and sometimes even felt tenderness for Ellie, honestly a touching story. Now in part 2, well it's crap. Who wants to play a story where Joel dies, the main character, and there is homo propaganda and forced diversity?, the making of the story is dull and simple, it is only about revenge. As for physical graphics and animations, excellent and as for gameplay, mediocre. They have killed the saga, 7 years of waiting for this? This is not what we fan wants wanted.
2191) I've never been so hyped and so disappointed about a game. The Last of Us 1 earned much of the success thanks to an epic, immersive, captivating story, my favorite of all times. Now they gave us this amazing graphics as a lube to push us a mediocre story where causing shock is an end by itself, becoming unsurprising and boring in a time where shallow controversies about right and wrong or morals always are thrown in the limbo of relativism, and where unhappy endings are already absolut cliche. It is amazing that Sony let ND and Druckmann destroy such a great story. I will stay where TLOU Left Behind left and exclude this garbage out of my memory...
2192) Shoehorning in a political agenda into a videogame clearly doesn't work. Rather than true character development and arcs we got this woke BS.
2193) I made an account just to leave this rating and review. Boy did Naughty Dog **** this up! I and so many fans have waited 7 long years for a good quality sequel and they let us down BIG TIME. Don't buy this game trust me just save your money. All the other negative reviews that have spoilers do a decent job of summing up the colossal **** turd that is The Last Of Us 2. This has been the only time a game has ever pissed me off so much I've felt the need to write something about it. If your a fan of the first game you'll be crushed at how poor the story is that at a certain point you'll just want to shut your console off and walk away head lowered in shame. It's THAT BAD!
2194) Just what I needed, Transgender buttsecks in high resolution. Pacing,  shallow & unbelievable characters, mixed with grotesquely inept writing. Also the gigantic ego of druckman putting himself in the game as maxed intelligence card, just wow. I will never buy anything from this studio ever again unless the studio is completely rebuilt with new leadership. Not to mention the flagrant illegality  of abusing the DMCA copyright system.
2195) Although the graphics and game-play is good, but its destroyed by the story, destroy whole the franchise, give me a bad experience and disappointed. The character change (specially Joel) also unreasonable and deviate from part 1, its cannot acceptable. Also the game trailers scam and game director's attitude make me disgust and feel offended.
2196) Bad history, good graphics.,The Last Of us part ll it's totally diferent to the part l, There lost her esence.
2197) Gameplay and visual are absolutely stunning but man the story is so trash, they tried to be "edgy" and "realistic" but it feels rushed and empty, I do not feel any kind of bond to the characters even the main one from the previous game. Furthermore, the company itself tricked us with the trailers, so what more can you say?
2198) Another good game turning into sh1t because of SJW propaganda, so sad, shame on you naughty dog.
2199) The most disgusting game I have played in my whole life,Not worth buying at all,And can't give 0 score, will error 503.
2200) Worst story. I strongly do not recommend it,  pure disappointment. Why we even need such beautiful graphics if the story is so poor written.
2201) The idea of Karma weakens as the protagonist butchers a single squad of enemies... pitiful that naughtydogs' such excuse is even lamer than their ruined storyline
2202) This game deserves a score less than zero. The aim of the design of this game is just disgusting players.
2203) A pretty downgrade, a bait for minorities and a propaganda for LGBTQ+ sect... What's the point of following the gay guy to the end if you can't kill him? He killed her father, wtf. In a post-apocalyptic time, what's wrong with that guy who wrote this miserable story? And who the f cares about LGBTQ+ in those times? You need to survive, you need water and food. Not to change your liitle boy in girl and raise your boobies.
2204) It is very bad to kill The main character in order to persuade people with sympathy for homosexuals
2205) This Reviews and the game itself is based on:,,Who loves the absurd story, not to mention playing as Abby (who personally i hated so much after saw her beeting Joel) and joel's horrible and cruel death: "This game envolves a great storyline"    BullS**T,,Who really loved the first game: "This game destroyed the entire franchise",,I will be honest i was expecting so much more of this game and it became a really, bad, hated, project.,,If it was supposed to be this and it was supposed to end like this, it might as well not even have made this game. I will just replay the first one because that's the reall MASTERPIECE
2206) It was the worst decision to fill half of the game with content we don't want to play. Player should've be able to choose whether to get revenge or not.
2207) Waste of money. None of the characters are likable and it was as boring as watching a tv drama.
2208) This game is a disappointment and an insult to the fans of the first game. It's absolutely terrible.,DO NOT BUY IT
2209) This review is to prove metacritic is manipulating the negative reviews, not let any negative review to be publised and only 7-10 are available. The game is the worst of this generation in story and narrative.
2210) Stunning game, excellent storytelling that builds upon the unforgiving apocalypse. Top notch gameplay for its genre. Another masterpiece by Naughty Dog.Stunning game, excellent storytelling that builds upon the unforgiving apocalypse. Top notch gameplay for its genre. Another masterpiece by Naughty Dog.Stunning game, excellent storytelling that builds upon the unforgiving apocalypse. Top notch gameplay for its genre. Another masterpiece by Naughty Dog,Stunning game, excellent storytelling that builds upon the unforgiving apocalypse. Top notch gameplay for its genre. Another masterpiece by Naughty DogStunning game, excellent storytelling that builds upon the unforgiving apocalypse. Top notch gameplay for its genre. Another masterpiece by Naughty DogStunning game, excellent storytelling that builds upon the unforgiving apocalypse. Top notch gameplay for its genre. Another masterpiece by Naughty Dog
2211) A messy, absolutely scummy plot that pathetically uses the violence and revenge as its elements in all the wrong ways and which nullifies all the good elements of the previous game. The story also trashes all the characters, introducing new ones that are either bleak or awful and was reinforced by a equally scummy advertisement campaign. The gameplay elements are nothing out of this world and the game is plagued by horrible bugs. Yes, it is a game graphically well done, but which AAA game isn't at this point of this generation? it's nothing we haven't already seen done before: The Division 1 and 2, Gears 5, Battlefield V and Star Wars Battlefield are as graphically stunning as this one and were all released before it, so I don't see why the surprise. Frankly, it deserves a zero.
2212) I waited for nearly 5 years for this game, I loved the first one. And when I say by the time I finished the game I wanted to rip my finger nails out, I mean it. The story is completely redundant in it's morals, The new character and antagonist Abby does not have good or valid character building and I don't like how the producers expect us to like her and take her side. There was a story we didn't necessarily didn't get to see with Joel and Ellie, y'know that we kinda built since the first game to just have it torn away and be something we'll never have. Most character death's besides a really big one and someone else just don't feel emotional at all. What the hell Naughtydog? I want my money back!
2213) Game contains many plot inconsistencies, main is ridiculous dead of best character. This is time killer and no more.
2214) Don't buy this ****.,the story is bad. abby is a disgusting and pointless character.  Don't buy PS5.
2215) the first last of us was amazing, great story, loving characters that we all loved, until last of us II came out, it has bugs, terrible introduction, climax, and other poorly done choices, that crushed this game, and got a lot of hate and reaction's on youtube, some YouTubers were sponsored by "Naughty Dog" and "PlayStation", and they weren't allowed to say or make an impression about the game, because they won't be sponsored by PlayStation or naughty dog if they create the third part of last of us, the important character has done in the first 2hr and 30min of the GAME DUE to very stupid way, and we fans, had to play the antagonist for 10hr straight, which ruined the game experience to other, by being boring, hating on character Abby which killed Joel at the first 2hr and 30min of the game and very poorly ending due to bad choices for Ellie to get revenge for Joel. and many other reasons.
2216) Never have I ever played a game that is incredibly well crafted yet terribly executed in my life of gaming history. This is disgustingly bad.
2217) Terrible game with rigged reviews. Terrible game with rigged reviews. Terrible game with rigged reviews. Terrible game with rigged reviews.
2218) 25 hours half of it is Abby a character they try to make you like it doesn't work and then they make you fight Ellie and kill dogs.. Oh and that one scene with Abby and Owen? Why?
2219) I will do anything to delete all the memories of The Last Of Us 2. Only pervs would buy this game and torture themselves. Neil **** ruin the franchise. He should be fired.
2220) Review bombing negatively because "critics" are review bombing positively. The pacing is glacial and the game is a lot buggier than exceptable. The gameplay doesn't change much from the previous game. The story is shallow and full of plot contrivences, holes, and retcons. Wouldn't recommend if you liked the first game.
2221) **** awful, just plain terrible.,Don't waist your money on this horrendous, propaganda filled pile of ****
2222) Watch a playthrough on YouTube instead and save yourself $60. You'll thank me later.
2223) The first game made us love it because of the graphics, the music, the way of playing, how we could enjoy going hand by hand with Joel and Ellie.... because that was the best point, the story, how we were able to love those amazing characters and their relationship..... this "part two" is the worst we can get. No matter what they tried to do with new graphics, music and everything else. THE STORY IS NOT WORTH. If the point that made the game one of the best we've ever played is such a trash, because I can't call it other way, then the game was FOR NOTHING, they sent to waste all the work and effort, including all the hopes we fans had since seven years ago. Maybe someone who didn't play the first part could do something with this game, but not people like me who had fallen in love whit the first one. I won't ever recommend this game, o the opposite, ignore it as if it never existed, that's what I can say about a game that in only two hours vanished my will to continue playing, a game I paid for just to ended up wanting to just throw away and forget I ever tried.,,And a little comment to add, some people say we give bad record because of DIFFERENT SEXUAL ORIENTATION, well the answer is NO, that has nothing with hate to the subject. The first game made it clear, that Ellie is strong, that she knows how to fight, and how to love people too. In the DLC it was completely clear who she was, we LOVE her, and we love Joel too, we love the story of how they met, how they could trust each other and how they saved each other in so many ways.,,The game was a master piece adding all. I can't tell in just this message how sad I am after this situation. I wish the second part was never announced so I could treasure the real game it was.
2224) Worst story in the world and the worst thing is that game destroyed the previous game .. take my advice don't play it and save your money
2225) This has to be the most disappointed I’ve have ever been with a video game. The last of us part  one was in my opinion the BEST game ever made. From the game play to the stories to the characters. Ever aspect of that game came together beautifully. Tlou2 felt thrown together to appease a small group of individuals, Piggy backing of it’s predecessor. For gods sake you have to play 10+ hours of a character you hate with every fiber of your being. This will be the last naughty dog game I ever purchase.
2226) I have only one thing to say: If you ever feel useless and feel like you don't belong in this world, just know that there are some people who defend this game.
2227) tl:dr,Graphics: 8,Animation: 8,Atmosphere: 9,Gameplay: 4,Story: 1,Narrative: 1,Critics claiming this game is masterpiece: -10,,First of I don't really think this game deserve 0 score, though it's the only way of showing protest against "paid" reviews of so called critics.,,Now let's get to why it's bad. Long and point by point.,First of gameplay. It's dull, it's repetitive and it's absolutely boring.,For a first quarter of the game you playing stealth game without any means to make stealth interesting you don't have skills(which by the way you should find in the means of magazines scattered around the so called world which is more of a tunnel with enough side turns or dead ends that will eventually lead you to a same point and still those magazines can be missed) and if you do, you don't have skill points to open them up soon enough to avoid this getting boring you don't have silent weapons and the only way to make it as it's intended to is by crawling in a grass and bushes with 1 button gameplay which is boring. Then we move to the second quarter of the game when you finally have tools but if you play on a highest difficulty the resources are so scares that you don't really have means of using them which again forces you to the point of either changing difficulty or continue boring bush crawling with 1 button playstyle. Then we move to the third and forth quarters of the game where you again striped out of means of doing the gameplay interesting and even of the mechanics as you play as Abby who is a part of wolves which were using dogs that made it at least a bit interesting and didn't allowed you to just sit on spot smashing stealth kill button. And instead of giving you a synergy with a dog and moving onto a new mechanics they just remove them from the game as a factor so the second half of the game is even a downgrade from already boring stealth gameplay. Again dull, poor and just plain uninteresting.,,Secondly story.,I was never a fun of TLOU1 so I don't have any years long love for Joel or Elle. Though they were developing during the game, characters were evolving and that lead to controversial ending. Here we have a flat characters that don't do this. They just don't develop still at the end they take a drastic turns against everything they stood and fought for it's just a poor written drama of a broken characters that don't do anything in terms of what ending brings us to.,Prologue and Joel's death make no sense at all. He stumbles upon Abby and her group just as they shows up in the region, saves them, tells his name, lead them to a safe house and can't understand where is this going to. No matter in the first game he saw through such characters by a single glance of an eye and then again Elle magically shows up just in time to see what is happening.,Epilogue is even more stupid as Tommy instead of helping Elle as his brother would've probably wanted wanted sets her up on a vengeance path AGAIN. Then Elle finds Abby saves her and Lev, fight with Abby and let them go. Abby knows where cicadas are, have Lev by her side and get everything. Elle looses everything even her new family with Dina though she is the one braking vengeance circle she didn't even started in the end.,Even with this BS story they could have done it better by parallel playing for Abby and Elle, or even by totally swapping the two halves of the game instead they try to make you understand Abby when you already don't want to, when you already hate her and just don't give any Fs about why she did what she did.,,And thirdly is a narrative.,You don't make strong female characters by just showing how weak and bad male characters are, you don't make good gay characters by showing how pathetic and cruel straight are, you don't make a strong trans character by showing that for some weird reason(sarcasm) tribal, postapocalyptic, religious group don't agree and don't accept this chatacter being trans. The only thing this achieve is creating hatred towards this characters and,or there counterparts for the matter and towards the writers that just can't represent them by any means other then hatred. They must stand out by what they do and not by others that do wrong.,,And lastly you don't buy or otherwise force critics to say that game isn't what it is. A dull, boring, weak, old and underdeveloped in terms of gameplay and story pile of garbage. You don't make metacritic to start showing some weird server errors that occurs only for this game. You don't lie in promotional materials. You don't censor some games and leave others with a full out sex scenes.,Again this game doesn't deserve a 0 score, it's 4-5 at least for it's graphics and detail obsession. But when I see 95 critics score for this I go for 0 to balance it out.
2228) WTF they did with Tlou2, it's just a game with some political agenda, don't care about the main characters and destroy all things build on the first game, Neil doesn't care about his our game fans
2229) I love the first game, and have replayed it many, many times. Unfortunately, tLoU2 is a complete mockery of its lovingly crafted predecessor. The story is poorly written, it's shoved to bursting with hollow, unlikeable characters and tried to make you regret EVER enjoying the first game, because apparently, everything we did was abhorrent. Abby's inclusion as a playable protagonist was unneeded and insulting, and she would have worked far better as the antagonist. I don't need to say anything on Joel, as everyone agrees what happened was disgusting. This was an insult to the first game and to all of the fans who loved it. I hated this game, and I hope the people who worked on it are ashamed of themselves. Because we are very disappointed in you. This useless pander pron gets a very well deserved 0.
2230) I was a big fan of the Last of us 1 in 2013 and was completely disappointed when I started to play this game. Why did you pay so much attention to Ellie's gayness? You could have just mentioned that she's a lesbian, but you've decided to repeat it again ang again, again and again. Look she's a lesbian! *after 1 hour* Look she's a lesbian, she's kissing a girl! *after another hour* I hope you didn't forget SHE IS A LEEESBIAN!! I came here to watch a great story and to shoot some zombies. Why should I see all this feminist and lesbian stuff? I don't deserve this! 0 out of 10 for the Last of us part 2, mostly for the heritage of great first part.
2231) The story sucks overall, i wonder is it the director smoke weed while writing the story...
2232) So what does it take for a game to receive a perfect zero?,Allow me to elaborate. A perfect zero is when a game is so devoid of awareness of it's predecessor, that it completely revokes any themes, character development, symbolism, or motives of not only itself but also the previous franchise title. It shoots itself in the foot, and in doing so, pointlessly murders the previous game that is crushed under its boot. The story of The Last of Us left us with a comfort of where our characters were, what they believed in, what they lived for, how they loved each other. On that note, they also established their skills, their abilities, their instincts. All of these were shattered in Part II. Joel is no longer attentive and assertive, Ellie is no longer endearingly sensitive, the characters become horrible shadows of what made them strong in the first game. And what do we get for it? Nothing. The game's linear storytelling riddled with plot holes and glaring pandering stereotypes leave us dumbfounded at what we just put ourselves through. It leaves us heartbroken, and it shows us exactly how much time we just wasted. It doesn't leave resolution, it doesn't fix any issues, it's not cohesive, it doesn't abide by anything fulfilling. It's is a plate of burnt crust when what you asked for was a sublime pizza with all the toppings. The most glaringly obvious problem with this game is how much they definitively changed to try and be different. It's deliberate, it's insulting, it's pandering to the completely wrong audience. It's unaware, it's foolish, and it doesn't even retain the sense of fear that the first game thrives on. The moment Joel dies, the game was no longer interesting, because that's who made the story interesting. Joel. His ability to survive, his struggle, his mentorship, his morals, his values, his selfishness. He died a so easily it was not even believable. So then where are we?,In a messy cross between the worst parts of the plots of Walking Dead, Game of Thrones, and John Wick, we are given nothing, no retribution, no justice, no feeling of accomplishment. Only a feeling of disappointment. This is capitalizing on the trend of sadness which was popular about 5 years ago. Too little, too late. In the time of a pandemic, civil unrest, and injustice we escape to a world of terrible pacing, threadbare character development, no progression, and we feel more sad. This is not rewarding. This is not pleasure. This is not a video game. It is a poorly written novel that would be lost to time in any other format. It's a fool's errand and it should rot for eternity.
2233) Never buy any Naughty Dog's game again. 7 years for this **** I just want a good story.
2234) You wont let me leave a detailed review, so here.,,0 / 10,,Deplatforming,Ignorance,SJW blaming invisible enemies,Clueless Media,Clueless Defenders.,,0/10
2235) Thank you for RUINING the STORY of one of the best games in gaming history. I’ve deleted the game after completing it. I’ve Wasted my  money.
2236) After watching the good Joe being killed in such a stupid way by a character who I don't still know whether is a woman or a man, all I can say is that this is the worst story I have played this whole gen.
2237) I just finished the game and Im giving this review the amount of care Naughty Dog gave The Last Of Us franchise. Part 2 is not worth your time or money. They destroy everything great about the first game and that's is all you need to know. What a waste of 30 hours for me. This is like Game of Thrones 2.0. #joelandelliedidnothingwrong #ellieisnotthevillian
2238) Horrible story, with horrible (yet hilarious) dialogue.,Buggy gameplay and AI yet again.,Shoves leftist propaganda down your throat, imagine people caring about the lgbt movement during the apocalypse.,Watch this garbage game win GOTY...,Haha, you have to leave a positive review to get it posted.
2239) Possible one of the worst stories ever written in video game history. I mean might as well just throw the first game away after this garbage.
2240) This game has several narrative problems! The event surrounding Joel's death created a bizarre and very poorly crafted storyline. Firstly, because Joel is slaughtered by Abby and her group doesn't kill Tommy and Ellie, knowing that there was a clear possibility that they would want revenge? Since when are they good enough to keep someone out of their group alive? Look at the colossal size of this Deux ex machina in a post-apocalyptic world and CRUEL to CREATE a plot in a forced and stupid way, only blind does not see, I'm sorry, a game focused on history with a hole the size of a crater in the same script this is a shame. Everything that happens after this event is a mountain down, although the game remains in the name of the character that we all like, Ellie, the story creeps into an immense void during her gameplay, with silly confrontations, collection of supplies, infected here and there, blablabla, for later on the part of $ @ # $ # abby you have the best moments of escape, combat and gameplay, and I DEFINITELY did not want to play with this character. The charisma or understanding of this character's "side" was a FAIL in its entirety. Abby has no charisma and had no chance of being able to, she killed the favorite character of many and this is unforgivable, I have no remorse for a mastodon who was the daughter of a doctor who wanted to kill Ellie in the name of a cure that nobody knows if there was going to be.,The last point is the end of the story, the part with Ellie is excellent and the exploration of that new coastal area is very cool, a different and new air, but damn, when the story ends I think "you went so far, you killed people I **** **** a lot of people to punch and let that slut get away? ", then I say, there is no way a tlou 1 fan can accept this story, even though people like you liked it, but I'm sorry, no give, it's a feeling of hatred for the plot and whoever planned it, because revenge should be completed, this world does not forgive FOR FOOD and silly reasons, will you forgive for killing someone so important? It's like Chris arriving at the end of Resident evil 5 and saying to the wesker "pow, I'm not going to kill you, you are cool"!,You have a lot of fun gameplay moments, but I'm not going to support these political causes and other idiocies that neil druckmann is trying to impose on people through this game, so my grade is 0, it's a protest grade.
2241) Not engaging and dull game play,toxic actors that calling users "bots",totally SJWed plot and hilarious Abby character. Characters from previous game are no more,this is just bland copies of old game models. Knowing how abusive ND was to their workers,i can't add more points for the soundtrack and animations. Totally top disappointment of the year.
2242) This game is the most painful game I've ever played (story wise). In april the game was leaked and believe me those leaks were just the tip of the iceberg. This game's story is just horrendous and playing it feels like a task. The story is pathetic and everyone who loved the first game for its story would absolutely hate it. Im not gonna give you spoilers but you can find out on youtube if you want. The gameplay is good but when the story sucks this much, who cares about gameplay. The directer has messed with the fans and destroyed every character. My two cents would be to save your money and invest it in ghost of tsushima which releases next month. Im 99% sure you would hate this game.
2243) the last game was the only reason why I purchased the console, that is why I have great hopes for the sequel. I can understand the death of certain character but the it was carried out in a ridiculous way, not to mention the plot holes and the casual offensive dialogues against Asian, i guess Asian will always be the laughing stock of the society.  This isn't what I enjoyed and loved from the last game, it's kinda heartbreaking for me to see my favourite exclusive game got ruined by the poor script writing. Will NOT buy any games from ND ever again.,graphics were great tho, but all the game did was just ruining my day(s). Thanks for that.
2244) Horribly old gameplay, too cliché story, boring in long stretches, I don't even recommend this garbage for free
2245) WOW! This game is just a shame! I forced myself to finish this fiasco five days ago and I'm still p'+sed as F#*k! It's just a videogame but this is unbelievable. More than 10 hours with Abby and then I have to fight Ellie!? I can't believe this is real! WOW what a shame!!!
2246) This review contains spoilers. The Last of Us Part ll isn't masterpiece Graphics are good but that is what most of the games done today. So it's no big deal. Gameplay is good just like the first game's, AI interactions with player is a perfect idea, but that doesn't change AI is stupid like it was in the first game. Story is completely bad, I mean there is few flashback levels of Joel and that's what I liked about story, other than that you get to play as Abby (Antagonist) for understand why did she wanted to kill Joel and show her life, and you can't get your revenge at the end. Poor story and Naughty Dog just killed the this franchise. I'd wish I never bought the game but I did and I regret it. Go play The Last of Us 1 it's much better than this game.
2247) If you loved the original characters you will be seriously disappointed with this sequel. Creative director Neil Druckmann has trolled loyal fans by delivering the complete opposite of what they wanted. Joel and Ellie might as well not be in this game. If you really cared about those characters (like I did) then give this a hard pass.  The level of narcissism shown by Druckmann is unfathomable. I cannot imagine how he was allowed to derail what could have become a billion dollar franchise. This game will be bought by many loyal fans and like me they will feel betrayed by the false advertising and the blatant lies that tricked them into parting with their money. Sure the game has pretty graphics and smooth game play but beyond that it is soulless. It desperately attempts to be clever by forcing you to commit acts of atrocity and then preaches to you about how awful this is... it’s moronic, patronising and simply fails on every level. The female writer that delivered the brilliant original had no hand in this utter garbage and it shows. I will never buy anything remotely connected to Neil Druckmann ever again. I sincerely hope that his career is over. Don’t waste your time or money, Ghost of Tsushima is coming out soon and then CyberPunk is following later on this year. My advice is to save your money for what are much more likely to be quality entertaining titles. Or if you really need an apocalypse fix and haven’t yet played Days Gone, it’s definitely worth a look, it’s the entertaining sequel that this game should of been.
2248) this is a **** joke!?,,spoiler,.,.,.,you kill a character as beloved and main as joel at 15 min of game to be able to put a trans of main playable character. Really? If you want to put your sjw **** in a new game, not one with a story!,,If you support this game you are directly supporting nefarious beings like Anita Sarkeesian to destroy the video game industry!,,ELLIE: I WILL FIND AND KILL UNTIL THE LAST OF THEM, EXCEPT THE ONLY PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DEATH OF MY FATHER,,FALSE TRAILER
2249) Miller's petition isn't such a bad idea. 7 years of waiting did not justify itself.
2250) Don't bother with this one, this is not the sequel people wanted. This is some pitiful revenge story injected with SJW agenda full of hate.. pros: graphics and game play are good but story is so progressive bs that it ruined the franchise and is an insult to the first game :-( very sad about it, hopefully Cyberpunk 2077 will be what people expect.
2251) Never have i played a game that is so spiteful and bland. the last of us never really stood out because of its gameplay and mechanics- it was the story and characters that made it compelling.,And here we are, with an unnecessary sequel that not only humiliates and kills Joel (which could be a strong plot point), but they also chose to execute it so miserably.,But wait! we can play as Abby!, isn't that great? a girl with a body that doesn't match her face and voice (or gender). i guess there's a great gym and plenty of food supplements in a in a post apocalyptic world. Oh, almost forgot, it's the daughter of an NPC, and she killed Joel with a golf club. Once again an agenda trumps storytelling and care for characters.,"How does it feel to have lived long enough to see all your favorite franchises go down in flames?","it feels great!",Thanks kinky dog.
2252) For a game with such lack of respect for its characters and its fans, it deserves the hatred its getting. The gameplay and graphics may be its redemeable points since they are truly amazing, but that is to be expected of any AAA game nowadays so its not an accomplishment. The story has been the biggest focus for the franchise since the first game and its DLC, but this time around it seems as if Neil's creativity has been dulled to the extreme, the structure of the story is incoherent and has plot hole after plot hole every 5 minutes, with the sad reality that neither Joel or Ellie are really the protagonists, this isn´t a game about them but rather a mediocre attempt to introduce a new protagonist for the saga and why we should care about her, but despite the great efforts of Naughty Dog, she does not induce any kind of sympathy or attachment from the player, after laying the game for hours all you feel for her is the desire to get her kmilled and erase her sorry existence from the story as quickly as possible, but the game even robs of this in the end, with Ellie letting her go in a climax as boring and badly written as the rest of the game.
2253) bad game dont buy. i bought this game for my son he just turned 28 and he said he didnt like it because
2254) Ugly and boring gameplay and full of really useless video clip all the time!
2255) My disappointment is imeasurable and my day is ruined. Can't describe my heartbreak. Ellie and Joel deserved better. I love the 1st game with all my heart it's still my favorite game ever. We don't get the characters we fell in love with. You have to watch them die or be destroyed in a disrespectful way.
2256) Just finished playing the game,All I can say is I hate it,Graphics : 10/10 the graphics is at best for a console video game,Fighting mechanics : 3/10 nothing new, only few animations which was implemented in fighting and of course now you can stealth prone... which was introduced in gaming maybe over 15 years ago in metal gear solid. Story : 0 /10,And of course, the STORY is garbage. In a story driven video game the story is what matters.,In this game the characters make stupid choices.,One example is the first game game Joel, he just give his name to a group of strangers with guns. Knowing that there are people looking for him after the choice he made in the first game.,And of course there is Abby, which will kill Joel in a brutal way at the very first 2 hours of the game.,Then you’ll be forced to play as this character who killed the best thing about the first game for almost 11 hours.  In this game they kill Joel and make you play as the character who killed him, then try to make you sympathize with Abby. Which is almost impossible after what she did. The rest of the story feels boring, thanks to the bad writing.,And what makes the game worse is the forced agenda with meaningless characters,Definitely a Zero from me as a fan of the original game.,And maybe it might get 5 or 6/10 from a non-biased revier
2257) This really sucks!!!!!! **** you SJW-zombies, this game is a **** GET WOKE, GO BROKE!!!!!!
2258) I absolutely despised playing through this game. Playing 10 hours as a despicable antagonist is not fun or engaging at all, and it has by far the WORST ending out of any game i've ever played (including ME3).
2259) Where to start ? This game is all about lying to your face. Gameplay is from 2013 and like 5hr in I could count like 8 zombies. Second part is even worse the coffee scene is a disgrace for this franchise and makes someone almost puke on how low budget the plot is. The game is not perfect but trying to give it a 10 at every turn when this game is filled with bugs and plot holes is just utterly disrispectful towards your fans and consumers and making fanboys fight for a lost cause. The game is less than 0 because there is no significant and true emotional content only pretty graphics with the most distorted story possible. This is a shame on game journalists and media in general not because is bad to like it but because they are unable to look at it's inumerous flaws. People are not happy.
2260) I want to be really honest, I liked the graphics (even though they were not a big deal), the same gameplay. But the story, the characters, the line, the ideological propaganda (lgbt lobby) was absolute trash, as it was progressed in the game, it became more and more empty and incongruous, with characters that became simply insupportable, this sequel has nothing to do with the first game, the one that did had a purpose, a line to follow, affective ties, that make you become attached to the character and that are worth promoting. they ruined a game that had been my favorite on ps3.
2261) terrible history and also ruin the previous one, it's a total DISASTER !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
2262) I like everyone else here will agree it's a beautiful game with (slightly) improved combat.,Here's the problem, VISUALS DON'T DEFINE A GAME. Game's aren't paintings and they aren't nature documentaries (unless that's the MAIN topic of the game).,If it's visual beauty is enough to overlook it's glaring problems, then I'd suggest you to go outside go to your local forested area and really REALLY just take it all in.,As for the combat it's slight improvements don't define the game either, but that's just because this is a story driven game. It's nothing special, has a few exciting moments a few boring moments. It's more about personal preference than anything. I personally didn't like it because I prefer my enemy AI to feel at least slightly human.,As for the story...,I hated it, as someone who has enjoyed stories that look into the human condition, this really saddens me. Every character's personality and characteristics get messed with so often just to fit neatly into the story the writers want to tell in the way they wanted to tell it that at some point they stopped feeling like people and just puppets. The game focuses on ethics but only with characters important to the story, you will shoot, murder, and kill your way through dozens of people who are probably fathers, mothers, sisters, and brothers but the story only cares about the one featured in a cutscene.,One moment your blasting your way through enemy after enemy like doomguy, the next moment you're Shinji from ******* Neon Genesis Evangelion.
2263) To understand the disappointment the gaming community had with the release of this game it would be essential to understand the timeframe for the developers to craft this product: 7 years. For comparison, arguably one of the best games of all time Witcher 3 was developed in under 3.5 years with a budget of 81 mil.$. TLOU  2 had almost triple the time and about 100mil.$ to work with. Rightfully we had expected it to be, if not better, the same level of quality as TLOU but the reviews, the public outrage and overall criticism towards this game and the gaming studio isnt only justified but is rightfully needed.,Im sure everyone had said everything what needs to be told about the story and the main characters themselves; thus I want to focus on something everyone tends to ignore: the gameplay. It has some minor improvements but the overall parts remained unchanged thus bringing nothing to the table of the gaming industry. Few people stated this game deserves less criticism because people who worked on the gameplay part of the game did an excellent job which somehow benefits the game whose primary goal is to tell a compelling engaging and entertaining story? The reason why TLOU is so beloved is because the story which is being told was a masterpiece, thus making the game as a whole stand out, and the gameplay only contributed to the story but didnt affect it! Thus claims that because of gameplay this game is better are merely ridiculous and laughable.,I was shocked to see how people gave this game a 10 out of 10 scores without even acknowledging or straight-up ignoring the problems the game has some stating that "ignore the thousands of 1-star reviews here as they were posted by trolls". Well I would like to pose a question to people like this: Why pay 60$ for the game where the LGBTQ tendencies are seen as character traits, the story is poorly written and the gameplay is almost the same as the first one? I have bought the game and I can tell you that the gameplay, the story, the atmosphere, almost everything is worse compare to the first game. The primary problem with this game is that it thinks that more violence would mean a better atmosphere but when the game solely focuses on that ignoring and forgetting other aspects it doesnt do itself any good. If I had to summarize this game in one sentence I would restate what the former co-director of the first TLOU  Bruce Straley had said: TLOU  didnt need a sequel and probably wouldnt get one, and unfortunately I hoped it wouldve stayed this way because as the saying goes you either die a hero or live long enough to become the villain and sadly that was the fate for TLOU  2.,In the end I want to sum up the core reasons why this "game" had failed in terms of subverting expectations: First, the game which is primarily known for its great storytelling ultimately failed to do so for various reasons including for various plotholes lack of compelling characters removal of the primary characters making the secondary thus making them contribute even less to the main story etc. (cant give any specific examples because I dont want to spoil this game for those who decide to watch it on youtube). Second, the gameplay part had hardly moved from its predecessor including only a few new mechanics which contribute little to the gameplay part of this game. Third, the atmosphere of the game is extraordinarily unappealing and compare to the first game where the atmosphere was tough as nails this "game" doesnt reach even close to what the first game had achieved. Fourth, the characters are unappealing the character arcs (except for Ellie) are extremely poor and were primarily based on the "shock" aspect of the game: violence, which alone wasnt able to achieve anything other than disturb the viewers and grow hatred towards almost every main/side character in the game. Fifth, the inappropriately failed attempt to show how "woke" the game developers were made the game even more horrible (simply because there is no need for that yet in order to please the modern LGBT society they decided to do so. Yet they didnt only add and enforced this idea throughout their game; they had consciously replaced the themes and values the first game had set and engraved in the minds of the fans and now these game developers rightfully will face the consequences of their own actions). In the end when the game is "a story-driven single-player game you usually know youre gonna have one shot at making your mark" and thus when the story isnt bad but straight-up utter garbage I cant see why or how anyone would want to buy and play through the entire game even when the gameplay is "OK" Yet if anyone liked this game I will be truly happy for them as after finishing this game on my own and then replaying the first game in the franchise I cant bring myself to call this game a canonical sequel, In the end, whats the point of a fancy present box, when inside of it youll find nothing but pile of ****
2264) I loved the first the Last of us Game. The second game looks Great, Gameplay is okay i guess (the rope mechanische are cool) but the best about the First Part was the Storywriting. I didn‘t liked the story in the new game at all.,For me it just felt like the only message of the game was hate is bad. The first game was a emotional rollercoaster and I had the feeling it had a way more deep Story.,All in all i am sad and pretty disappointet...
2265) This game is a smoldering pile of garbage. I feel bad for the people that worked on the visual part of the game because it looks like they're the only ones that put effort into their work at naughty dog...how do you take the best zombie game out and butcher it like this
2266) Worst story ever made dont waste your money . ride to hell retrobution is better than this sh1t .
2267) Yea, I liked joel. I don’t know why they killed him off, it was my favorite part of the first one.
2268) great graphics, gameplay but the worst story ever and worst character and character development, wasted sequel because of Neil **** and Anita Sarkeesian
2269) Another huge disappointed game in 2020 after we waited for so long with high expectation.Whoever write this story don't deserve to live in this world and has no respect for the fans who played TLOS1.,,Joel dont deserve to be beaten to death like Negan lucilled Gleen in twd
2270) very disappointing story, no proper pace, flashbacks are very confusing and at most times im confused and frustrated.
2271) Trailers were false advertising, I should be allowed to get a refund. Disappointed.
2272) The title of this game should not be “last of us” there is no “us” in the game.,Just suggestions for the title “The Woke - wrath of man women”,P.S no matter how much you paid Metacritic or IGN this game still suck.
2273) Game reviewers are becoming like movie reviewers. They write their reviews for each other instead of the people playing the games or watching the movies. Last of Us 2 is a terribly unfun game. If you like being emotionally manipulated in unbelievably cheap ways and just overall feeling miserable, then by all means; go for it. The gameplay itself is OK, but really, just OK. Not bad and certainly not great. The story is just miserable and the characters are unlikable and (with one exception) and their motivations are simply unbelievable. I can't believe how disappointed I am about this game as the first was one of my favorite games of all time.
2274) This game is an absolute garbage, would rather play cookie clicker on Facebook or something… Whats with the ending, you honestly cant think of something other than that ?? You just left her go ?? yhea.. f*ck this. I´m cutting the disk into thousand pieces and burning them in a trashcan…
2275) Disgusting the way they butchered the legacy of such an amazing game (the original) In Part 2 the characters were bland and dumb. The hero (Joel) was made out to be a monster by everyone including Ellie. Tommy was the only well built character in the game and the worst part was, instead of playing as him to avenge his brother's murder, you play as Joel's murderer! In a lame attempt to have people "empathize" with her. It's so lame.
2276) story and characters why ... neil druckmann you fu*cking  idiot you destroyed the most important thing in game
2277) These positive reviews baffle me, game is hot garbage Niel **** has successfully killed the franchise.
2278) Pity. This game has literally everything going for it, good audio, good visuals, decent gameplay, and it is all ruined because the writers thought they were being edgy but instead wasted time on stories and characters you couldn't possibly like.
2279) This will go down in history as one of the most hated AAA games, and whoever gave the go ahead for this story, you should be ashamed. People waited and wanted to play this game for the story and characters.,Good job subverting expectations, I think you'll find your game sales subverted as well.
2280) The gameplay of part 2 is similar, or slightly better than part 1. The graphics part is close to other recent Naughty Dog titles e.g. Uncharted 4, so the gameplay & graphics score about 9/10.,Story: 0/10 No need to explain. The game challenges the bottom line of storytelling by failing every part of the story.,Overall score: 0/10 because the game is all about its story.
2281) gay and lesbian very bad game o/10 i hate last of us , last one was very cool game
2282) Stop blocking negative feedback. Metacritic score has been upgoing from 3.2 to 4.5 now and they are blocking negative score feedback. Really 'Naughty'
2283) This is the worst way to ruin a franchise, the story is a complete piece of thrash, I can't believe this is what we got after many years, totally disappointed, waste of time and money.
2284) To paraphrase Jim Sterling talking about Shadow of War:,- TLoU was an example of how to take a tired formula and turn it into a great game,- TLoU II is an example of how to take a great game and turn it into a total f*ck
2285) The game-like emotions that play with people's moods do not go away after a few days. This director is a genius. If the intention was to hit the back of the user and reverse it, it is as intended.
2286) Not good at all. Don't waste your money with this game. The history is a mess.
2287) This game was honestly so disappointing let me start of with the fact that Joel dies within the first hour of the game, let me clarify Joel dying is not the reason why we hate this game so much but because you kill him in the worst possible way and then force us to play his killer and try and make us sympathize for her not to mention how Joel and Tommy were so out of a character Joel in tlou never trusted anyone and would kill anyone he would come across and all of a sudden he saves Abby tells his name and where he lives bs!!!! The game also has very unnecessary scenes such as Owen and Abby I was left traumatized after seeing that. The time pace of the game is also very messy and confusing and the ending is absolute garbage. Shame on you naughty dog for wasting 7 years to make a stupid game
2288) Asian lives matter!,Asian lives matter!,Asian lives matter!,Asian lives matter!,Asian lives matter!
2289) Bad just bad game.,Wish I didn’t buy it. I rather play something else than this dumpster fire.
2290) The trailer was a lie. I strongly recommend remake the plot of part 2, Joel shouldnt died at this way...,If you are really happy with that, I have nothing to say about it...
2291) This might be the first time I actually write a review, but I think what happened deserves one. This game was not made for the players - it was made for vaguely unidentified group of people which certainly are not the fans of the 1st part. Disgusting.
2292) I laughed when they shot and killed Joel. I don't think it was supposed to be funny. But it was that stupid.
2293) The last of us 2.  A wasted story. The last of us was known for its great storytelling, loveable characters, and great gameplay but the devs had an agenda to push and I mean push, almost every scene with the 2 gays is constant weed and sex. The newly introduced characters are killed almost right of the bat ruining any development with them. They ruined so much about this storyline. 0/10
2294) Seriously, why did you do this game? Gamers waited for years to get this game, and you create a game to set your political agenda, also you cannot kill the killer of your "father", seriously? This is because she is trans? I hope this saga dies right now
2295) Are you kidding me? a game, a franchise, is a complete product. you can’t say the first part of the plot is excellent, then weak, the technical part is excellent. fans will not like it. 10  10 are you fxxxed up? my axx is burning, pxxdets.
2296) The game is excellent in all departments but the most important one: the story. It not only succeeds in destroying everything the original achieved but does so in the most infuriating way possible. DO NOT BUY.
2297) one thing I know, if it's American then it's a government agenda they forced the LGBT **** **** you Netflix) and one other thing when a game is so heavily focused on graphics then RIP story. **** Appy,  **** the game as well as the studio
2298) Killing the main character, trying to push an agenda, then Druckman was literally begging the gamers to buy his game, which is the first time it happened in the history of gaming. You killed the franchise because of stupid decisions.
2299) This game should never have been made.  The entire game takes a **** on Joel’s legacy and pushes SJW narratives to an annoying extent.  It forces you to play as the awful new protagonist, AbBy.  AbBy, who within the first 2 hours brutally murders everyones favorite PS character and main reason for buying this game in the first place, Joel.  The game then attempts to force you into sympathizing with this juice headed brute for hours and hours that just drag on.  I honestly wanted to quit playing at this point and wish I would have in hindsight.  The only reason I pressed on was the hope that Ellie would still get to kill AbBy.  But just as you thought this narrative **** show couldn't get any worse, it devolves into one of the most convoluted and worst endings I have ever experienced in a video game.  I won't spoil the specifics, but a giant waste of time is the best way I can sum it up.  I honestly hope they make a third game just so people can refuse to buy it and cost the studio money.  If anybody wants this game my copy is for sale.
2300) just a garbage game. only good thing i can say is that the graphics and gameplay are good, the rest is just pure trash,
2301) I was terribly disappointed to see that this game that i had long expected, turns out to have little to no diversity.,I usually play as a transsexual MtF black midget with long blond hair in other games because this is the only way my wife will get me the specific soy milk (with +100% soy! tasty :DD) i want on her way back from her boyfriend's apartment. Now what am i supposed to tell her?,My wife's son already bullies me and now i have to choose between my favorite soy milk and playing this game :(
2302) Money in the game poured a lot of **** but it is a complete failure in the scenario.
2303) I've never been so disappointed in a game in my whole life. As a huge fan it hurts me to know that I gave naughty dog money for this. I avoided all leaks, bought the special edition of this, got the tlou edition ps4 years back, beat the original close to 10 times (mostly on grounded difficulty) and played thousands of matches of the multiplayer across the ps3 and ps4 versions. They betrayed the people like me who helped pay for this sequel and waited 7 years. For what? All so that Anita Sarkeesian can beat gamers to death with a golf club, spit on us, steal the spotlight, punch us in the face, break our arm, bite our gaming fingers off and just walk off as the main character? I beat it twice, so this is not a BS review. The game is an actual 5-6 based on gameplay and graphics/sound. It's a fun game and the voice acting is great, but I have to give it a 0 for story and in general, because of all the fake 10s and Neil Druckmann lying to us. You don't have to be some right wing trump voter to hate this game. You just have to be somebody who wanted a good story. With all the forced virtue signaling, the game sacrifices the story in favor of sending some message. Trust a hardcore fan and save your money.
2304) A bunch of sjw political bs that had no place in the storyline. Pander to your players not to the damn sjw's that aren't even gonna buy your game.
2305) A game that completely fails at story telling, acts as though it's creating high art with one of the most cliche story premises ever, dishonest marketing, and complete hypocrisy by Sony. This game deserves to go down as a failure, plain and simple
2306) Joel don't deserve this, and Abby must die at the end of the Game, **** ellie usless
2307) If this was an educational game for kids to teach some homosexual's rights and fairness over the mankind, It will be 10/10 best game ever.
2308) This game could have been a much more enjoyable experience if they had changed the pacing of it all. everything was out of order and you never got time to develop any sympathy or feelings for any newly introduced characters. Other then that, just a very decent game. I'd wait for it to go on sale if you're going to purchase it.
2309) Good graphics and game play won’t make for the absolutely awful story.  Full of politically correct.  Just don’t waste your time and money.
2310) game's absolute trash, pandering story, horrible animations, liked abby tho kekw
2311) Narratively speaking, this sequel should not exist at all as the ending of TLOU 1 was perfect.,But, if you're going to make an unnecessary sequel, and least make it that, a sequel, make sure it preserves the essence of what made the first game so special: the bond between Ellie and Joel... that's what made the first game so immersive and unique and it is baffling to see that Naughty Dog seem to have completely missed the point.,,From the technical standpoint, the visuals are really good... that's it. The gameplay becomes repetitive and tiring very quickly, and when I think of it, it would probably have been the same with TLOU 1 if it wasn't for how invested we were in the story and the relationship between Ellie and Joel, on top of being accompanied with some excellent narrative elements.,,The best bits of TLOU2 are precisely the flashbacks featuring Joel and Ellie... if you decided to make a sequel, THAT was the game you should have made as that's what I would have been interested into.,,Instead, TLOU2 is a soulless return to the same universe of the first game but with characters and a story I just don't give a damn about and without being invested in the story it makes this game far less enjoyable, to the point where I found it repetitive and tiring...
2312) garbage game Not close at all to the first one’s quality of story The gameplay only had some minor changes and considering how old the first game is it’s pretty bad that nothing changed
2313) Bad game, they killed the most beloved character in the game, and they still had the guts to put lesbians and a woman on a man's body to earn high marks.
2314) Why they have to do Joel dis bad.Joel deserves better
2315) The game is very bad, at least from the plot side. The propaganda of feminism is a chair on which reputable developers sat, and as a result brought them into a hole. Do not play this game. Ignore this game. Stop propaganda of feminism!
2316) The developers obviously do not understand what made the first last of us game so good. Killing of Joel right after he saves Abby's life (it's not even a quick death, its a slow torturous death) doesn't get justified by the 10 hours + or so of game time that you "have" to play as Abby. Those 10+ hours are pretty weak narratively as well. I don't get how someone who played the first last of game can potentially like this game. The backlash is completely justified and a lot of things seem forced. The DLC was nicely done and when it's revealed that Ellie is gay it was a really wholesome moment. However, the Dina/Ellie chemistry is just lacking and lot of times is completely forced. I would say steer clear of any Naughty Dog games, never pre-order, and save your money to support other game developers.
2317) The worst game story ever, what wrong with all that news articles. It just a waste of talents to all FX and game play team.
2318) I always make a joke about how bad fallout76 main questline is, guess this game just successfully replaced fallout 76
2319) Pretty visuals are not going to save this game.The gameplay experience is essentially the same with the last of remastered so no evolution here. The story is filled with plot holes and shock value but in the end it doesn't  deliver on its promise of a revenge cycle. Since this type of games are partially marketed as interactive movies , a movie without a good story is nothing since its main feature is luckluster.
2320) If you're playing The Last Of Us Part II for the story in the slightest, I recommend you stay away from this game.,,The graphics, gameplay, and the level design are fantastic. The facial expressions are also superb. However, the story really destroys the entire game. The story itself is fairly good, but the sequence and pace in which the developers decided to tell the events was abysmal. The attempt to get the audience to feel sympathy for Abby's actions falls short because they decided to introduce her after she brutally tortures Joel. The sudden cut to Abby's past when the story reaches a climactic point was also poorly timed. For the sequel to a game that was centered Joel and Ellie, the writers shove Abby down your throat and attempt to force you to like her by making you play as her for half the game.
2321) Whats wrong with you people , every movie has to have black , lesbian , forgiving for no reason kind of **** political stuff , seriously ???
2322) This game does nit follow any story fundamentals, Hayley Gross did a horrible depiction that i believe this game is a excuse to seem progressive when i truly believe that this damages the LGBTQ,,To put it simply no one buy this **** game, Buy some other game that prides itself on its story heck even indie games are 100 times better than that of this game
2323) seems that I can't simply score the game because the loading circle keeps spinning... why?
2324) Bland gameplay, boring new characters, do not waste your money or time on this absolute garbage
2325) Worst game of the century. While the part 1 is a masterpiece this one is totally opposite to what the first one is. What are the developers thinking!!!! Pointless, useless story!!!
2326) Ruined a classic game franchise with a trash, agenda driven, pathetic poorly written story. Total slap in the face to the first game
2327) Stunning  game, excellent storytelling that builds upon the unforgiving  apocalypse. Top notch gameplay for its genre. Another masterpiece by  Naughty Dog
2328) Terrible game. Glad I never had any interest in it. Critics are also so out of touch with reality it's scary. The first one wasn't even that good either.
2329) Story has ruined everything. if you kill one of the most beloved characters early in the game (Joel) and want to bring in new main playable characters like Abby, you HAVE to bring WAY more backstory in order to make the player feel with her.,I mean she KILLED Joel!
2330) Can't believe they wasted 7 years on developing such stupid game. Completely destroyed what the first game caused on us.
2331) Don"t really hate the game, but the ending doesnt really make it for me. Plus I absolutely hate the fact that you have to play as Abby the whole second half of the game. I just gonna pretend Abby gets Infected by biting Ellie. No problem with Ellie being lesbian because we knew it since the Left Behind DLC. I was scared how they gonna introduce the trans character, but it actually made sense and it didnt felt forced what so ever. The reason why i give it 3/10 is the fact that the game spits in the face of the first game's characters. the part 2 the really broke my heart how unenjoyable was the second half of the game
2332) SPOILERS: Now I admit that I haven't played the game personally. But I have watched enough walkthroughs that allow me to understand the direction of the story. This fact DOES NOT make my opinion less credible than someone else's because I know what I was looking for in a part 2 (which was the story) and Naughty Dog did not deliver on it. With that being said, here are my issues with this game:,PROBLEMS: * Ellie and Joel do not have enough gameplay. Their relationship is what makes the first game great. But that is not built upon and ends prematurely in part 2. Flashback scenes feel like hurtful jabs after what transpires.,*Supporting characters are dull and uninteresting. (Jesse, Dina, Owen, Manny, etc.),*Abby as a character fails to make me feel sorry for her. She feels no remorse when she takes lives and is motivated purely by her lust for blood. Ellie feels regret for her actions which is the human element that is missing in Abby.,*Very disturbing sex scene. Extremely difficult on the eyes and has no purpose for storytelling.,*Joel's death is dehumanizing to the character and makes no sense. Joel is very experienced with sketchy situations but somehow is oblivious to the danger of entering the company of complete strangers. Joel is tortured and killed in front of Ellie without a chance to mend their relationship after Ellie learns of what happened at the end of the first game.,*After Abby kills Joel, bashes the head of a pregnant lady, kills the father of the baby, shoots Tommy in the eye we still play as her fighting Ellie. One of the only characters left that I am emotionally invested in. And we are still supposed to like this character?,*After Ellie's revenge quest, killing all who was involved in Joel's death, the actual murderer is spared for seemingly no good reason. This robs the audience of a final conclusion.,*Ellie is treated like the villian and loses everything. Loses her fingers so she can't play guitar like Joel taught her, loses her family in Dina and the baby, loses her bestfriend Jesse all for nothing in return.,* All of these factors not only impact part 2 but the first game as well. I can no longer play the first game and look at these characters without thinking about where they will be in part 2. I can no longer save Ellie at the end without thinking, killing this one surgeon will ruin the franchise completely.,CONCLUSION: All of these factors are the ingredients for a horrible storyline that is betraying to the fans and the characters. I'm sure that I haven't even stated all of my issues within the game still. I have also decided to leave out Naughty Dog scandals and real life mishaps even though they have destroyed any respect I have for the company. What angers fans like me the most is that the outrage was predicted and intentionally instigated by Naughty Dog and Niel Druckman. With that being said I will not buy the game and I wouldn't recommend it to my worst enemy either.
2333) I was exceptical about this game by reading all of the bad reviews thinking "maybe they're wrong and are a bunch of trolle" but now I played the game and IS HORRIBLE! ...when this game went that wrong? I dont know how I was able to finish it, in the middle of the game I was sooo bored but well, now I can say, DONT PLAY THIS, it is actually like the reviews, REALLY bad :( ...well I lost some money and time, but hey, I got a lesbian scene, it was worth it isn't it?
2334) **** this game.. Not worth buying.. Gameplay is not much different from the first one.. But what they did to the character is ****ing stupid
2335) The game has a horrible script, they waited 7 years to write something that would end Elie's life and kill Joel.
2336) 4.4 user score? It must be 0.0 score. ****,How much did you get from drugman, **** If you give 10 to this motherless piece of hymen, please suicide and meet Joel and get **** by him as a corp.,※ Do not try to delete this, drugman. This is your result. And you must recognize that TLOU2 IS A PIECE OF HYMEN
2337) First off this game gets a zero because the devs lied through their teeth and sony enabled them.,They initially said that ellie is the only playable character, player doesnt have to kill dogs and when the leaks came out in direct contradiction to these facts they tried to abuse the DMCA system to suppress it. This is disgusting behavior and needs to be called out and reprimanded sternly.,On to the game.,The games review will be divided in two parts. Story and gameplay. The gameplay is awesome but quickly becomes repetitive but what doesnt become repetitive is the at times breath taking vistas the game offers. This is by far a graphical masterpiece.,The story is like **** donkey coming and **** all over the place. Abby kills joel, while showing no remorse. Ellie kills all her frens with a lot of remorse, in the end they fight but ellie now decides to let abby live? She loses joel her two fingers her partner and her kid meanwhile abby loses nothing.,This is a literal spit in the face of fans
2338) game play 7/10,graphics and environment 10/10,overall game polish 9/10,,However what is the point to this if the most important things to a single player story driven game (story and character development/interactions) is one that NO ONE WANTS TO PLAY OR TAKE PART IN.   This game will leave a bad taste in the mouth of any real fan of the first game.
2339) It's ridiculous that the Joel character is collapsing. It's understandable that you show a completely different behavior from the previous one, but I think it should be at least for a reason. The characters who change their personalities like psychotic patients without any reason for the careless Joel's carelessness. Where has the probability of disappeared? If Voldemort had killed Harry with the Uzi submachine gun, it would have felt similar.
2340) There is no need to play this game unless you want to know what happens with the franchise. Everything about the game is just a copy of the first one.
2341) I was so looking forward to this game. Part 1 was hands down the best game that ever existed. This Part  II is just a terrible disappointment. Rather than focusing on a good story it's driven by propaganda and LGBTQ push. Wish i could just forget this game. I don't understand why they have to push ideals on people. The game thinks its being subtle about it, but its not. So transparent.
2342) It breaks my heart to write this, but I really did not expect such a poor story after all these years of waiting. While there were a few genuinely good moments, the majority of games filled up with plot holes. It just took elements of what worked for the first game without understanding what made them compelling.
2343) I was ready to love this game, even with the leaks, I tried my hardest, but this game is such a disappointment. It betrayed everything LOU was, cheap plot, boring characters, ridiculous deus ex situations, and the worst part? They are trying to defend the users' score by using the homophobic card. Cheap. Really cheap defense. This game is such an spectacular fail and disappointment I can't even...,What I think about the unbelievable good critics' score, is that they just can't give it a bad score, because if they don't like it then they'd be homophobes, and haters, and probably even nazis...,A total waste of my time, this game.
2344) Rubbish. We DON'T WANT to play as Abby so **** long time! I don't mind Joel killed by Abby but at least not so fast.
2345) It’s a piece of **** I love the first one 100% naught dog can suck my dick
2346) just like season 8 of GOT,  great graphic ,great gameplay great details, but  disastrous story
2347) The gameplay is awesome but the story sucks. The trailers and its predecessor made my Hope's for this game very high but I was disappointed when I realized that they edited the in game trailers to make it seem like it had an entirely different plot, to some it may just seem like it made the game more surprising but it just made me disappointed
2348) The last of us opened our hearts to allow the last of us part 2 to spit into it. If you were a fan of part 1 do yourself a favor and ignore this part. I never ever tought i would say this but they should have pulled a half life 3 on this one and never release it, just say it will come out eventually. Only negative emotions with this game including boredome.,The thing that hit me most was how incredinly bad the storytelling was. The chars acted completly out of place putting you into extremly akward situations. Even if you say "you dont know how you would react in such a world" im sorry to say that i just dont see and that it was just lack of storytelling to make me see it.
2349) game is full of libtard propaganda. its obvious the dev's are just trying to suck off the gay community. the story is boring and the characters entire arcs are just sjw crap. someone should shoot whoever let this game get published
2350) mixed with political,it is disgusting and I don’t know why the Screenwriter feels good, Even quarrel with players
2351) Crap writing, crap characters. To make us play as a character who killed Joel is just TRASH! This was awful. I don’t understand the logic behind any of this game it is terrible! The fighting style somehow got worse. Joel and Ellie’s personality completely shifted which okay maybe Ellie make sense because she’s older but to make Joel who was a BOSS in the last game shift him and make weak and have him make terrible choices in this game. ????? And don’t get me started on Ellie’s girlfriend who had 0% of personality except to flip flop on if she was gay or not and keep Ellie hanging on like a lost puppy. Awful awful writing. Awful character development, AWFUL advertising to make us think Joel was alive JUST TO KILL HIM straight away and then make us continue to play as the person who BRUTALLY murders him. Disgusting. I wish PlayStation would allow me to get my money back!!!!!!
2352) The inclusion of the LGBT community was really unnecessary Joel's death was dry from day to morning
2353) Don't tell me how great the gameplay is. The story is the main factor if the game can tell a story. It's the sins
2354) It sucks. The writing is horrible and is only just fan service....why does this game even exist
2355) The new dog ended the story with chaotic logic. The efforts of the top game team were all wasted in this superficial story, which is really regrettable.
2356) They did this series dirty, the game was all over the place with the flash backs and killing off Joel with a golf club and then having to play as Abby for 10 hours  just the worst game ever. And using Joel in advertising is just straight up lying. Naughty dog should be ashamed of themselves for creating this
2357) You give up on your family to cross the country to find a probable dead (post-apocalyptic world) person. Ah yeah, sure...
2358) We should of been able to kill abby at the end of the game and Joel's death was completely unjustified
2359) i feel betrayed. it's fine it's a whole new story. But this is a fking Part 2.
2360) This is How you ruin a game, the first one was perfect, this one is awful, I hate Neil druckman
2361) The pros of TLOU2 are that compared to its predecessor the gameplay has improved, the graphics are better than ever and there are some fantastic cinematic pieces, all in all those aspects are objectively good, however where the game fails so spectacularly is the main crux of the success the first game enjoyed, the story.,,With all this new technology and moderate gameplay improvements (but no one really played for the gunplay tbh) it had set the stage to completely outshine its legacy and create a true game of the year or even decade, all of its hard hitting emotional scenes fall flat or worse, induce a feeling of dis-satisfaction and disappointment, the relationship between the players and the characters was handled with utter contempt, with no saving grace between them, if we can even call them the same characters, many of them do not act consistently and often jump to irrational and illogical decisions that have been shown repeatedly to be against their entire backstory and demeanor.,,I don't know if the original writers were bought back for this game, but i heavily doubt it, TLOU was not a game that can stand up based on its gunplay alone, 80% of its core was a compelling story with relatable and consistent characters, its successor needed to be handled with the utmost care and tact, of which it failed to the point that im not sure if they were even trying, i feel bad for the coders and programmers that poured so much of their heart into it, because that does show, the writing team had failed the game, the company and their co-workers, its madness that no one tried to pull them up on it.
2362) A game without main character is not good game. Somebody tell me who is main character in this game?
2363) So they kill your favourite character and then make you play as his murderer for half the game and ACTUALLY THOUGHT we would ever empathise with that beast for a fraction of a second. We don’t give a **** about that Minotaur or her a dad at ALL!! And we’ll never care. I’ve never had to turn a game off so many times out of pure frustration at the story before in all my 25 years of life. What a **** train wreck. Joel deserved better, Ellie deserved better, even **** JESSE deserved better. And anybody that doesn’t like this stupid ass game is labelled transphobic??! LMFAOOO what a joke. Don’t ever in ur life think about purchasing or listening to these fake ass reviews that naughty has paid people to leav.  story is labelled
2364) I've talked to others extensively of why I hate this game so ill just do it in bullet points,Plot holes,Characters not acting like the characters,Politics forced in,Bigot sandwiches Joel,The ending Same gameplay as the first one with barely any updates
2365) Okay it's time for me to chime in I'm not your average gamer I'm a little bit older than the majority of people that play video games I'm in my 50's so I may have a different outlook on life of how things play out compared to a younger person. I initially saw the leaks that came out and I was kind of bummed out to hear that Joel was going to be killed off but I kept an open mind that this is a fictional story and a lot of our heroes in movies die all the time. I saw a lot of people posting memes and saying a bunch of negative things. I had pre-ordered the game and said I will make my own assessment and so far the game play is outstanding and the storyline is not as bad as people are saying once you get over the part of Joel getting killed off. A lot of these YouTubers that are giving negative feedback on the game are young people and they're pretty much all jumping on the bandwagon regurgitating the same thing the last person said for likes on their videos. If you're thinking about getting the game get it don't worry about what other people are saying buy it for yourself and enjoy it.
2366) Naughty dog straight up lied about their game. They replaced character models in trailers to make us think certain characters would be a bigger part of the story than they really were. They then tried to make a story about how bad guys aren't always bad, but the character in question was **** and they forced them onto us. Don't buy this **** game.
2367) Stupid game. Play and hate yourself at the same time. I hope nobody killed himself. Disturbing. A plot is with holes.
2368) This game is totally trash dumpster dunno who are these experts on this site that they give 94 points on 100. But i just create account on that siye to write, this game is total **** waste of money.
2369) Lower than expected,it cannot be compared with the first one. Waiting forward for the new crash bandicoot.....
2370) This game sucks!!
2371) How many times in this game have we see the scene where you try to climb something dodgy but it falls apart and now the you're pinned or trapped and there's a bunch of infected to kill? Or when you get pinned by infected and your friend has to save you? Or when you try to get into a building with a blocked door by hoisting someone over a fence or through a window so they can open from the other side? Or the gate that won't stay open on it's own so you have to find a big thing to hold it open or ask your friend? And my personal favorite: Ellie holding a gun to someone and having an opportunity to pull the trigger but somehow she loses her upper hand and the situation goes to **** It's so repetitive at this point and feels like they ran out of ideas. Not to mention most of these things happen enough in the original already. Where was their innovation? A jump button and pregnant women?,and lets not even start with the story...
2372) Easily one of the worst games ever. Bad story, boring gameplay, not-so-good graphics. Developers just took everything that was good in the original The Last of Us and just threw it in the trash. In the end we have a terrible game. Easily 0/10, not recommended to anyone
2373) 7 years for this **** forced the death of such a dear character and the mainstay of the game, a death of the most absurd, a great ****
2374) I'm Chinese gamer not China.,这个游戏应该是2020年最烂的游戏。我不会在这里剧透，但是要买的人请三思，因为你玩了以后会感到非常的愤怒。如果你坚持想玩请买二手，谢谢。,This game should be the worst game in 2020. I won’t spoil here, but people who want to buy please think twice, because you will feel very angry after playing. If you insist on playing, please buy second-hand, thank you.
2375) This is bad, bleak, boring, the story is badly written, Gameplay and graphics are good, but whats the point when the story doesnt makes you keep on playing
2376) Here’s the problem I’ve had. The game is beautiful in terms of graphics. I give many congratulations to the underpaid naughty dog staff for pulling this off. Other than that. I liked the story. But like everyone else losing their minds at how horribly things play out. It’s not the story the characters we loved deserved. We didn’t want this and yes naughty dog aren’t obligated to give us that. But killing integral characters in the story the way they did isn’t welcome. At the very least there are so many better, more dignified, ways they could have done some of this. It saddens me to say that I enjoyed the game visually and although the gameplay mechanics are still the same outdated janky mechanics from the first game it wasn’t a good enough improvement. I liked certain aspects of this story but majority of it made me fume in anger. So in simple terms the rating I give here is a representation of how sometimes a good story told badly can’t achieve anything good
2377) Story was so poor . I hope Neil Druckmann will try to fix it . It just ruined the years i was waiting for this game . God my heart is broken .
2378) YoUr ReViEw MuSt Be 75 ChArAcTeRs LoNg. I didn’t like it. I didn’t want to play as Abby at all. This game was supposed to be about Joel and Ellie. Yet for some reason this character gets shoved down our throats, when we wanted more of Joel and Ellie.
2379) I can't even express how **** the story for this game is. It astonishes me that Neil Druckmann can call himself a master story teller when he has to erase character traits to kill the character. Making us play as a certain steroid abusing golfer and attempts to make us sympathize with them. Attempting to make me feel bad for killing a character that I didn't even know I killed nine hours ago as ellie, and by the time they try justify the human fridges side of the story, I'm 13 hours in and already fed up with the game, WHY WOULD I CARE ABOUT JOEL'S KILLER THIRTEEN HOURS IN? WHY WOULD I SYMPATHIZE WITH HER? its **** confusing to me.
2380) The way the characters were handled as a sequel is absolutely horrible. I've never seen such a terrible plot. Amazing visuals and sound but the story is psychological warfare.
2381) Stupid story, bad characters and anticlimatic ending, it is an insult to the original game
2382) If you liked the first game, do yourself a favor and forget this one exists, this game actively makes a mockery of what made the first games story and characters special to so many people. If you want to play it for just the gameplay you'll likely enjoy it, but if you care about the story and characters at all, you're better off staying away
2383) A depressing and sad act of self-indulgence that Neil and Sony thought would be a pinnacle achievement. Instead they get a dramatic collapse of their fan/customer base. You should be ashamed.
2384) A disgrace to the franchise and a huge waste of money, do not bother with this game.
2385) I don't think I need to say anything that hasn't already been said. The development behind this game was corrupt, and the finished product is only passable from the hard work of the developers, but even then is butchered by higher ups
2386) I feel really disgusting about the story. Very bad gaming experience. I don't know why give us such a gaming like this. not recommend
2387) very bad story i don’t know how see this is great story. bad story bad why to end this game. this game from top to bottom
2388) The game is soo bad story,Very bad But just good game play no more Iam so sad
2389) Femki sosatb,Dont buy this game ,its makes anly 4 gay propaganda and politicts ****
2390) Last of Us Part 2 is one of the worst games I've ever played. I've never had to force myself to finish a story before because it was so bad.  man i don’t believe that I’m waited 7 years for that trash.
2391) This probably was the first time i wanted to break a game since my dad destroyed my xbox. This games story sucks.
2392) Nooooo noooooo noooooooo,We ned reboot This version should go with E.T Very bad not good at all The worst story of all time
2393) developers caved in under the LGBT minority, since when did Ellie become a lesbian?  why does a woman look like a man?  what nonsense?  I hate LGBT minorities and especially hate when developers cave in under them
2394) Offensively bad story. What was that thing? Reminded me of the Last Jedi. Destroy the characters fans love. Shame on you Naughty Dog. Just ugh. Hard to watch.
2395) Horrible story, nice graphics and horrible gameplay . The story is very bad as they make Abby the protagonist and then they make her as if she was a good human being I feel scammed as I thought this game will show more in depth about Joel and Ellie relationship but it is horrible and horrendous
2396) Truly a disgrace. Not only that, but this trash is highly acclaimed by the official reviewers, which clearly shows they are just as corrupted as well. Also, there are thousands of new "user reviews" giving it 10, which are clearly shills as well.,,You now see how deep the rabbit hole goes.,,My recommendation - DO NOT BUY it. The game ended with the first one, truly. Pretend this second part is just a bad dream to save your sanity.,,And if you had the misfortune to have bought it already, return it and demand a refund.
2397) It's extremely infuriating how they managed to screw up so badly with such a highly anticipated sequel. It's in everyone's best interest if we pretend this game never happened at all. Save your money.
2398) Boring gamepaly,,**** character design,,Racist,,Not kill a **** kill your father and bite off your fingers?
2399) No story. Why do you need to understand the enemy team?,And why is the story of the enemy team so long?,Should have killed Joel? Abby's father tried to kill Ellie, but Joel killed Joel because he killed Abby's father to save him. What was Abby's father trying to kill Ellie because he was blind because of the vaccine? Is Abby psychotic?
2400) The story is too bad. Abby is an egoist. She tortured and killed the man who saved her to revenge. She shot WLF comrades with no mercy. It's really disgusting to play her part. The important changes happened on this character all seem unreasonable and accidental. I'd give -10 for story. But the game play and graphics are pretty good, so I think 0 is a reasonable score.
2401) I feel betrayed The last of us was my favorite game ever I even preordered the deluxe edition of this trash I WANT MY MONEY BACK
2402) 소니 알바가 1만명이 넘어갔다길래 내 작은 힘이나마 보태려고 한다. 이 게임은 유저를 능욕하는 게임이다. 닐 약만이가 참여한 게임은 다시는 구입하지 않겠다.,I'm going to add my little strength to the zero because I heard that Sony's rating manipulator is over 10,000. This game is a game that defames users. I will never buy a game that Neil Drug man participated in.
2403) TLOU 1 was about a person who lost everything and through a harrowing adventure relearns to love again and also decides the fate of the human race, just one of the best stories ever told.,,The last of us 2 is about some hormonal teens that think more with their genitals than brains, with motivations that change like the wind, and do nothing of any importance throughout the entire game. it s so bad its embarrassing that we waited 7 years for this......
2404) The gameplay of this one and the first one is nothing amazing, what made the first game so amazing was its story. Characters who you enjoyed and were interested in seeing where they go was the key to the first game's greatness.,,The narrative this time around is utterly inane. I won't dive into details but after a few hours in, I could not believe this was made by Naughty Dog.,,I refused to believe the negative hype and wanted to actually see the game for myself, but I should have saved my $60. This is on par with GOT S8 in terms of disappointment.
2405) Surely one of the most disappointing sequels of all time. Ruined all of my expectations for Naughty Dog's Next Gen games.
2406) To start off, this game only gets points because of the graphics which are amazing, and the gameplay which builds upon the first one. That being said, it breaks my heart to say that this game sucks as far as story. I hated the way Joel died when I’m fact the selling point for me was that Joel seemed like he was going to be in the game so much more in the trailers. Then having the game force you to play as the antagonist Abby (the one who did it) made me hate it even more. At the halfway point when I started playing as Abby I immediately quit, then later started playing again to get the hopefully one part over with Until I realized that this would be the rest of the game. I did not care about her point of view at all because I found myself asking “is it over?” After every segment. After her gameplay I wanted the game to be over after having like 2 more hours of gameplay (a false ending) Then to have everything happen all for nothing was probably one the biggest gaming disappointments of my life. No exaggeration. Do not buy this game. It felt like a chore to finish this game and I only felt obligated to because I spent money on it. Biggest waste of time and money ever
2407) If you like Joel then quit this game go play the first one and live happily ever after and pretend this stupid game doesn't exist
2408) The gameplay of the first game was quite decent, not as bad as some have said - also carrying over into a terrific and underrated multiplayer. But the story of the first obviously is what propelled the game to new heights - a moral tale of friendship, family bonds, and loyalty, the type of tale that appeals to everyone. But while the gameplay even improves in the second, the story (the tale) is one of nihilism, despair, and deconstructionism. It is cheap, easy, and pretty much a waste of your time if you remotely care about story at all.
2409) The writing in this game was a massive letdown, even if you didn't play through the first game. If you were a fan of the original The Last of Us, this game was a massive slap in the face. The way the characters are written in the second game completely goes against the way they were developed in the first game in order to fulfill an extremely contrived narrative. The drop in writing quality here is actually somehow worse than the drop in quality that we saw in Game of Thrones' final seasons.,,The storytelling is poor and that is just irredeemable in a game where they sacrifice fun gameplay for story development. Throughout the story you take control of a number of characters at different points in time, and so your inventory and equipment are constantly reset and you're never able to feel powerful or in-control. This would be fine as a narrative tool, except the writers utterly fail at convincing the player that the actions and motivations of certain main characters are reasonable or admirable.,,To put it simply, if you're looking for fun, engaging gameplay, this game does everything worse than the first game. If you're looking for an interesting, satisfying story that has a meaningful and coherent message and features convincing character development, this game is absolutely not it. The original The Last of Us was a masterpiece of introducing us to flawed characters and making us fall in love with them. This game is more concerned with finger-wagging and guilt-tripping than doing anything resembling good story-telling.,,Don't waste your time on this one.
2410) The story is totally ruined by neil ... this is not acceptable !! sony has to think twice before letting him write again !
2411) I can't believe you guys kill joel in the first 2h in the game and you want me to play 10h with Abby !! Im **** sad and very angry. You guys make lose my time waiting for years the game. After Uncharted this my favorite game but i don't like what you guys did to joel and the way he dies . I stopped playing and delete it o  mu ps4
2412) Total sh...t ! The plot is extremely degenerate, the writers who wrote it need to be fired without severance pay the game is very well made technically, but it is absolutely idiotic continuation of the plot. If you wanted to come up with something hot and interesting - do not kill Joel in the middle of the game and build a plot around Ellie and Joel - where for example Ellie falls in love with Joel and Joel see in it just a daughter and let's say she would not have fully guessed what happened at the end of the first part and at the end it would turn out and so on. well, in general, the overall concept of the plot is about this would be much more profitable - as it is...
2413) Why is everything exactly like this? Why can't anything be fixed and we can only accept what is happening? So many years of waiting... This is not even close to the first part. This is terrible.
2414) I'm sick of political correctness. Death to SJW, I spent your money on something more useful and fun. It is rubbish in every way except the technical one, it is good there. But it looks like a pile of **** to me.
2415) It's a miracle, that let gamers know how disgusting the story of a game can be. I haven't finished this trash and I never will. If that's not possible to get our moneys back, please rewrite this or just make a Director's cut version?
2416) Years waiting for this.,The worst argument i've ever seen in a game.,Everything is pure nonsense.,Don't buy it simply not worth it.
2417) Game is absolute garbage , only good things about this game are graphics and sound design. Story is crap, characters are shallow and empty, story pacing is all over the place. Go woke go broke.
2418) Bad writing horrible story differed way too much from the first feels like a completely different franchise and is intolerable.
2419) how could be done just like a ****,Ellie always thought that joel is her father,Abby must killed by her,I swear god that i wouldn't buy naughty dog's game,Since 2020 6.19 the last of lesbian
2420) By far the absolute worst story writing I've ever seen. The ending is hollow, and a waste of time.
2421) Did you enjoy the smart, careful, pragmatic, untrusting hero of the first game? Well I hope you enjoy that character being dumb, careless, gullible, and beaten to death with a 9 iron within the first few hours of the game.
2422) Neil druckmann is the reason this game sucks. This game is a dumpster fire. This game has a dreadful story
2423) There are too many unnecessary things on this game things they putted just to express yourselves.
2424) The worst sh1t Naughty Dog could have ever created, technically precious.. even for many years to come, the gameplay is the same or worse than the first, but the story and the script are the worst sh1t that 2020 could give us..
2425) Absolutely disgracefull,Ellie & Abby both want vengeance.,Abby gets everything while Ellie loses all she had.
2426) The game has very nice graphics and character animations, but the story and ending are absolutely horrific. TLOU 2 literally spits in the face of its predecessor and throws away everything fans liked about the story of the first game.
2427) I don't know tbh just huge disappointment i don't know where to start or to begin
2428) Main game idea:,1. show good and bad character.,2. Let you play for good and feel hatred to bad,3. Let you play for bad character and make you change ur opinion about her. Feel sorry, sympathize her,,4. Again play for good character and feel contradiction in interaction with bad character.,It is a nice idea, but there is one problem:,3rd point is ABSOLUTE, COMPLETE FAILURE, and instead of this you just feel contradiction, dissonance, that developers and critics deceived you. And considering bothering gameplay, with the minimum character development and poor story this is definitely ZERO out of 1000.,The only reason developers made their money is because of respect and hopes from the 1st part. What a pity
2429) A fanfic of the original game, I hope Naughty Dog can do better next time...
2430) Game was horrible start to finish... most if not all leaks were true and the game heavily pandered to the 1%... only thing good about this game was the graphics.. horrible game overall would never recommend this game to anyone
2431) I Need get this off my chest for the people simping for Abby and showing remorse for her i just want to let you know, Joel wasnt the perfect person and yes he did what he did but it was for survival he didnt ask for it but he had no choice you cant just blatantly say Joel deserved to die, he fought many foes along the way to look for a cure and when it was finally the chance to find a cure he choose not to because it would have killed Ellie in the procces but you do need to take in consider that he has lost his daughter on his hands and probabily blamed himself for the cause and as soon as he found Ellie it was like he found his daughter back and he didnt wanted loose her again so he choose to sacrifice the cure to save Ellie's life, yes it was quite selfish of him doing that but you cant blame him after all the hard times he his been through, he lived his whole as a survivor not a saint because thats the harsh reality of this apoliptic world that we live in and in order to survive we need to have a strong mindset and show no remorse for the people who want to cause harm to you and the people who you care about, people like me are upset because the way he was killed it stupid, the guy he could tell an ambush from miles away, Went to some random strangers base and said "Hello my name is Joel i may have killed thousands of people who have been one your family member but i really just cant help myself not telling my name to you all lovely people" like thats not his character. Now back to Abby she killed her own teamates (unlike Joel who cares about his allies and family) and probabily done more questionable things than Joel, She needed to acknowledge that revenge was a bad idea in the first place and accept the death of her farther because sooner or later this was bound to happen to anyone living in this world but you killing the person who killed your dad doesnt make you any better than that person, yes its hard to accept losing someone but her dad asked for it by pointing a gun at Joel you cant blame Joel for self protecting it just annoys how people want to protect characters that dont matter in the story anyway. Naughty Dog dont you get that the reason people liked TLOU is the bond between Ellie and Joel not Abby and her Dad no one cares just stop ruining my experience with this masterpiece of a game like you have seen how people reacted to Walking Dead so im asking you WHY DO THIS? WHY DID YOU WASTE OUR TIME HYPING US FOR THIS GAME FOR 7 FRICKING YEARS? i hope this game was just a troll not the original part 2 because if thats the case then Naughty Dog your standards have gone really down im very dissapointed
2432) Force you to play with a character that IS the vilan? Good graphics, and techinicals... But the direction dont worth the gameplay.
2433) The Graphic is amazing, Beautiful nor Phenomenal literally took my Breath Away when i saw how detailed the Graphic were,,But the story sucks, The End.
2434) So disappointing. This game will beat you over the head with it’s far left political agenda harder than Abby beats Joel.
2435) The story sucks! Really it sucks!!!!!!!!! I never wanna play this game again this game sucks it blows so flipping much!
2436) poor games,The plot of garbage, the ethics of garbage..............................
2437) I waited 7 years to play this game and all I got to show for it was a disjointed and overloaded story that seemed like a torture/snuff film. The game made me feel disgusted and gross. The gameplay was sadistic and unsatisfying and the story was absolutely a mess as well. Not to mention they tossed away the MC from the first game like a piece of trash. Ellie also lost everything for no reason.,,It's almost as if the writers hated the characters and wanted them to suffer. Absolutely horrid. Do not buy and avoid at ALL costs.
2438) The story is full of hate,i am hongkong people and i would not buy your game again!
2439) -This game is basically a movie, since it has very good graphics & it is extremely linear.,-Its gameplay is basically the same as the title released in 2013, but the inclusion Jump, Prone & Dodge, but some enemy attacks are undodgeable.,-Its AI is basically the same as in 2013, which again means lots of dumm dumm NPCs, whether they are allies or enemies, which easily breaks the inmersion for the player with respect to the survival or the action in it.,-But its worst thing in question.. is its WRITING or STORYTELLING perspective, which is simply full of PLOT HOLES & moments which are completely devoid of any logic or common sense.. that causes many of its main characters to look like a bunch of simpletons or imbeciles, & this terrible WRITING also affects its ENDING.. which is nothing more than a MASSIVE LETDOWN.. basically imagine a John Wick killing all the characters that get in his way, when John is trying to kill the killer of his dog, but that at the end.. John decides to forgive the killer of his dog.. because he just conveniently have a flashback about his dog...
2440) I just finished the game and try as i might, i just cannot comprehend how this game received a perfect score across so many professional reviewer. This game just failed to reignited the emotions that the first game have despite its effort to play victim hood.,To be honest, i don't really find the storytelling compelling enough as towards the end, all just seems so pointless. I couldn't care for the graphics because all PS4 Pro graphics are good like God of War and Red Dead 2 so this is really nothing new for a long time gamer as myself.,i replayed TLOU 1 weeks before the release of Part 2 and for Joel to suddenly be so one step ahead of his enemies to freely divulging his identity and be so trusting to a large groups of strangers, i really find it hard to accept. Maybe it would have made more sense if it was a stand alone game (Part 1 never existed). The disconnect is left me dumbfounded,,It is like I am playing this character who looks and sounds like Joel but isn't.,I had expected a smarter, more intelligent way to take Joel out to be honest. It is like they just wanna get over with his character fast and it shows.,Overall, The Last of Us Part 1 is a masterpiece that is just to hard to recreate.
2441) I never wrote a single critic in this site but I cannot keep myself silenced when I'm faced with the biggest letdown of the decade.,Thanks, Naughty Dogs, for nothing else than a spit on your fans. I will never buy on of your games again. And to be fair, i will not put one dime in playstation anymore. Time to exode on xbox. This way, maybe i will be safe from  such a disaster in the future. Thanks Neil.
2442) Boring game play, way too much SJW nonsense, nothing relatable to the characters, the cut scenes are uninteresting, completely unfaithful to the original masterpiece. Returning my copy. It seems every facet of our lives are being inundated with SJW rubbish.
2443) Neil Druckmann ruined this Franchise just to push several agendas.,Should never work on another game
2444) After seven years we get a game that has a cast of extremely unlikeable new characters, the gameplay sure as hell is no magnum opus and an ending that makes season 8 of game of thrones look like a masterpiece. Some of the decisions made are completely irrational. There is no real feeling of survial horror in there. The (human) enemies don't even nearly live up the the creepy cannibals from the first game.,If you wanna play a zombie game, there are a LOT of better options for you. If you wanna play a game with a good story even trash shooters have better writing. This is the biggest game letdown of 2020.
2445) Thank you naughty dog for destroying this series for me!! Abby by far the worst character imaginable. Applause to your creative team.,My first and only review on metacritic. Only created this account cause of the sheer disappointment for this game.,Waited 7 years for nothing!!,Thank you once again for destroying this franchise!!,P.S not a bot NG. Just to clarify as your calling all th,negative review bots. Shame on you
2446) This game is shameful to think the studio name Naughty Dog once meant something. The animators and individuals who built the textures and models should take pride in their work. But the writers and people that allowed this muddled piece of garbage to surface should be kept up at night. You had fans waiting years for this game. Ready to explore the consequences of Joel not being honest about his selfish choice to save Ellie in the first game. No instead we get a random ******* cult a character who is suppose to somehow include the LGBTQ+ community but instead turns them into a raging psychopath and the cherry on top is you have to play this piece of ****.  How did this become a game, who signed off on this and allowed it in the end. Speaking of the word end there isn't one it's pathetic it's the equivalent of the developer spitting in your face after already beating you into the ground. I really wish I could give this more than a 0 for the model/texture designers, animation devs, and people who helped sculpt the underlying fundamentals. But the writers poor job takes away the score I was going to give them. It is so bad that I am actually taking time to review a **** game instead of playing another one.,,This piece was shameful, There isn't enough bleach in the world to wash my eyes out and clear my head of this pathetic pathetic excuse of a "story" My 3 year old niece writes better stories and all she has to do is scribble a picture together and it's coherent. What is wrong with you Naughty Dog, you should have kept Amy Hennig you CRETINS!
2447) Great gameplay but it has a terrible story. And I think this is what frustrates me the most about this game. it feels as though this game hasn't been developed for entertainment, but to force an agenda into your face under the guise of a video game. Sony have openly criticised (wrongly) games for being overly sexualised and have taken steps to actively censor them, but having a trans-lady being pegged in graphic detail for 2 minutes in 4k HD is apparently fine and to point out this blatant hypocrisy makes one a transphobe.
2448) Fake trailer, fake review, Part 1 was a great game. Stupid plot, do not waste your money to buy this game
2449) Neil Druckmann disrespects all the fans of the original game like no one did before. The game is just disgusting. All the leaks are legit. The game is the equivalent of the Last Jedi that’s how bad it is. The game has nice graphics and that’s about it. The gameplay is the same no new improvements at all. And the story is an example of how to destroy a beloved game. Neil Druckmann and most of the critics are still deceiving the fans that the game is a masterpiece when the reality is a whole different story. Avoid this game as the pest if you’re a fan of the original game. As for me the game ended with the first part and this abomination doesn’t exist for me. I originally gave this game a 2/10 for having nice graphics but because of artificial boosting of the score by metacritic I’ve decided to give it the lowest score possible just to balance things out a lil’ bit.
2450) Naughty Dog stole everything I loved in TLOU Part I. Why treat the plot so cruelly.
2451) You don't need a good history anymore, just put some teenage drama and some artificial relashionships while demolish the one relashionship that we are realy invested. So tired of swallowing progressive propaganda in my games. Leave the gamer alone **** SWJ. Besides that this game has poor, contrived writing that is just trying to prove a point. OMG just stop, i want my money back.
2452) Just absolutely not enjoying it. Iv watched movies with more gameplay then this "game"
2453) This is the end of the last of us... very sad. They killed not only Joe, but the entire game. for me this, this is not a cannonic game...
2454) This game is a disgrace. Do not waste your time or money on this ideologically driven garbage. These fake 10/10 reviews are very problematic.
2455) The story is **** and effortless. The attitude of the producer is ultra **** as well, master piece of ****
2456) As an avid fan of the last of us I have waited the arrival of this game like a parent waits for a new child.However all that anticipation and excitement when out the window when this child was born ugly ! Where was the writing in this game where is the story ? It seems the writers couldn't write so they choose to take the easy way out and go for cheap kill the best character (Joel) in the game thrill. Then to add insult to injury they force you play as the character (Abby) who killed Joel. Killing Joel was pointless and sad and mostly unnecessary. I think the people at Naughty Dog fogot the last of us is a story driven game no matter what else happens the game must have a good story and this game has no story it jump from here to there on a whim with no reason for why. It seems like Naughty dog decided to take every staffers idea and thrown them and in the pot with no genuine writing or thought. Unfortunately what Naughty dog cooked up this time stinks!
2457) The graphics and gameplay are phenomenal, it's like a miracle how the game is running on a 7 year old machine! You'll feel engaged to it most of the time.,The reason I rated this 0 is because of the stupid story decisions they made, I won't spoil anything here but I didn't like the story at all, .
2458) I waited all this time for this hot mess =(.   I have not been this disappointed since I first saw a real hedgehog and it wasn't blue
2459) Political views should stay out, please stop ruining videogames. I don't why everyone Is using this poor political choices
2460) 7 years of anticipation, last naughty dog game I ever buy while Druckman is at the helm. The game was made to piss off people who enjoyed the first one. A true disservice to the fans
2461) Absolute garbage. Gameplay, graphics, and audio are amazing but how can you have such a horrible story in a story driven game? I’m going to sell my game for cheaper so people don’t have to waste $60. Complete waste of money but more importantly a complete waste of time you’ll never get back.
2462) This game is an insult to us fans, even for anyone who's trying the last of us franchise for the first time, I always admired the game's director for his genius level story telling, I was even advertising this game for my friends since I found out a sequel is coming, but this game's story telling failed so badly that I can't just stand the game and the fact that how story just insults me and my seven years of waiting that I wont ever trust naughty dog games, cause not just they failed in story telling they ignored the fact that its the fans are gonna like the game not the director himself, also they lied to us in the trailers luring us to buy it.,The game has a great graphics, no loading between the chapters, an unforgettable music, best mo cap and voice acting performance, and an amazingly fun gameplay all which is wasted for the poor story telling, some reading this review may say all this can't be ruined by story but all I say is wait until you play it yourself you'll understand how bad it is that you don't wanna continue the game from a point.,I just don't understand what was all that we got in the first game? what was that for? all that character development all that bounding to those characters was for what? to just say hey we made you love them now we destroy them, it was so sadistic move, it was't just a bad ending, it  was abusing and insulting for me, a big fan of the game and almost every other fans I know.,I'm deeply sad for what has happened to this great game so many different ways to continue the story to please the fans and create something unique but, too bad they chose the way to insult the fans and destroy the game in a unique way.,Naughty Dog has now a way to go to regain it's fame.
2463) beyond common sense. Kill lots of people to "that" Killer but let him/her go,I hope this is "the last of" this type of game paid from "us"
2464) Nothing compared to the first, the direction the game was taken was not something I or the community would ever want. Should’ve just let it be at the first.
2465) This is just Game of thrones season 8 all over again all I got from the story was hate.
2466) I am just gonna say, this game is great graphically and is a definite upgrade from the first game. However, everything else gameplay wise is still the same. Only thing I could see that was added was the ability to go prone and sprint jump. Everything else is just ehh and even the AI from the first game was a lot more aggressive as in TLOU2 the enemies literally forget about you and have a tendency to go into hiding if they find you. I was really looking forward to this game and would have never thought that The Last of Us would even get a sequel. I was holding off on buying this game and saw my brother play it so I can get a feel for how the story plays out for the first couple of hours. Though well into hour 2, I made my mind up that I would much rather look into using my $60 elsewhere. It wasn't about Joel dying, it was how he went out and it was just the most idiotic and uncharacteristic way to go out. Then Naughty Dog expects us to play as the killer half way into the game, which is just something that turns me off. I don't wanna be forced to play with someone that I completely and utterly don't care about and have shoved down our throats as the main character. I could care less about the backstory for Abby, she is a terribly written character and don't see why having the doctor be tied into this story. The ending in itself is just atrocious. I was looking forward to having Abby killed but instead we have an ending of Ellie letting her go and not getting revenge. This game is in the end pointless and the journey was pointless. If Abby was at least killed, I would have given this a slightly higher score but my rating stands. In my eyes, this game is not canon and I am still waiting on the real Last of Us Part II.
2467) Waited 7 years to play as the person who kills the main character from the first game... would rather watch paint dry
2468) A game that should have been a masterpiece flops on the deck like a trout hopelessly trying to breath.,,The first game was a masterpiece, a "once in a lifetime" story full of twists and turns, characters you loved and an emotional story that will have you on the edge of tears. This game has none of that.,,First let me point out what i did like.,,The graphics are amazing, they aren't mind-blowing like some have claimed but they are still pretty awesome, the sound is good, voice acting is as good as its ever been ,even if many of the VO artists have be obnoxiously rude to the fan base. The soundtrack is the best part of the game and the environments are some of the most immersive and detailed if ever seen. That folks is wher my praise ends. Because the games director was and is more concerned with pushing social ideologies than he is telling a competent story. Hes more willing to listen to a certain ideolog/professional victim , that shall remain nameless, than he is the fan base hes allegedly trying to make this game for.,,This game doesn't make it 30 min  in before issues like race and sexuality are put to the for front. Its obnoxious and distracts from a story that, now that I think of it, is probably worth being distracted from. Character motivations change on a dime. Its quite jarring to have a character be completely for one option one moment, and then less than five min later be for the exact opposite option for no other reason that the story needs it. This game relies heavily on flashbacks so much so that huge chunks of the story are told out of order like a Tarintino movie. I cant give any examples with out giving away spoilers, but the plot in this game has more holes than a cellulose sponge. The characters you loved from the first game are completely different than what they where in the first game and the new characters are so boring and poorly written that by the end of the game I didn't like any of them. Most of them are so awful that as I write this review I cant recall any of their names. The ending to this game was not only very abrupt but so bad that it felt like they stole it from a Z grade fanfiction. But as bad as this game is that's not the worst part about this whole mess. The worst part is Naughty Dog and sonys reaction to the story leaks.,,See about a month before the game released the entire story leaked online, and naturally people didn't like what they saw and took to twitter and youtube to vent their dislike with the story. Even though it fell completely under the fair use provisions of The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, Sony and Naughty Dog began to give false statements on legal forms in the form of DMCA take down notices. These notices lost a lot of people a lot of money and risked taking away their livelihoods just because naughty dog cant take criticism.,,In the end this game is a huge mess and disappointment. Terrible story and game play that operates on a repetitive loop. A game made by horrible people who care more about pushing a social and political narrative than making a quality product.,,Avoid at all costs, thers many indi devs that make much better game that deserve your money much more than these people do.
2469) The story. Played the first game to death and loved it, completely disagree with the "revenge" angle they are going for, people want catharsis, Joel was the main character and to toss him in the trash like this is awful, I love Ellie but what I loved most was watcing the relationship with them both blossom in the first game. Dissapointed
2470) I used to love assassins creed until they started to sexualize their games and fill it with gay people and tough women who are “as strong as men”. I mean come on most gamers are dudes please stop running games. Just make separate games for different kind of people if u care so much about sexuality and women's rights, leave video games alone! so u dont have to ruin popular games by forcing these ideas into them. And yes im not buying this or any game that has the same agenda.
2471) The reviewers and the game "critics" who got the 1 month early gave this game a 10/10 but the fans and the People who payed for this game gave it 0 to 3 i wonder why...
2472) The game has a very weak narrative. If you need one hundred flash backs to explain the story  with unlikable characters doesn't make the game a pleasant  experience. Instead of focusing possibly finding new way for a cure or vaccine they went the good old revenge plot that other movies or shows  have executed this them better. The graphics and gameplay are great, but the story is what sold this franchise. I get it people not every character needs to be likeable; however,  not one character was actually likeable. Even Ellie as a once lovable character was forced to lose her personality.
2473) The first Last of Us has a very special place in my heart and is my favorite game of all time. After completing this I feel heartbroken. It did not do the original game justice and did an injustice to the intelligence of Ellie and Joel. I ask that whoever reads this does not waste money on this game. My first game review ever.
2474) how do you ruin a game like this? lmao, journalist are a joke giving 10/10  to this trash, don't ever listen to them
2475) Spoiler separate at bottom. Beautiful to look at but other then that just a horrible disappointment, weak story which just got progressively worse as game progressed. Unlike the original it left no mark on me but indifference. All the subtle nuance of the original replaced with a simplistic viciousness. It's so blatantly obvious & repetitive with it's message & themes. Treats it's audience like dumb 9 year olds. Overall just a big let down from what should of been a great end to PS4. Thank god for Cyberpunk & CDProjektRed! Oh and Ghost of Tsushima.,,SPOILER: i really didn't like being forced to play half the game as the killer of one of my favourite 2 characters from the first game. Not sure why developers thought any fan of the original would be OK with that. I mean we loved the original & it's 2 antagonists. Truly feel in love with them & their story so this felt like a kick in the teeth & almost a mockery & disrespect to the player base.
2476) This just worst, better keep your money & memories, the bad of the game I ever played, I swear. Wasted my money and time got nothing at the end, no message no story and disgusting, you didn't deserve on it although not bad on graphic and game experience, but remember TLOU selling point is story. So go frak your self Naughty Dog, to be your fraking DOG. I will never ever support any games from this DOG
2477) The worst storytelling. Despicable promotion strategy. Disappointed, Rubbish Game!!
2478) Before you buy this game please know:,You will play as Joel for less than 2 minutes. You will only play as Ellie for one half of the game. I took the time to play The Last Of Us twice again before The Last Of Us 2 launched. Ultimately that was a mistake as it made me realise again what great of a game the first one was.,Imagine walking into an art gallery and looking at a Picasso painting. Now imagine, I’d take the painting off the wall, **** on it after being constipated for weeks, let it dry and then hang it up back onto the wall. The critics like IGN would probably argue because of its shock factor its great art. Really though it’s dried **** on a great painting. In a nutshell the dry **** is The Last Of Us 2.,Playing this game is like living out Neil Druckmann’s twisted fantasies from over the top gore, to having to kill dogs and sheer manipulation of the player. This guy is literally a one hit wonder for writing the last of us story years ago. He has little contribution in the Uncharted series and his main accomplishment was the first game, where he was heavily guided by Bruce Straley. You have to give the arts team credit for this game. It is probably one of the best looking games on console. A lot of people are praising the gameplay mechanics......... Naughty dog never had great gameplay mechanics. There is literally 1000 other games out there that do shooting, melee combat or stealth way better than this game. Overall this is a terrible game and hopefully it will be reflected in the number of preorders for future Naughty Dog games. I will be more cautious with their next game.
2479) thanks for destroying the game by destroying Joel's charisma and worrying more about lesbians than zombies
2480) This isn't a game. It's a lethal dose of cultural poison/toxic nihilism.,,Don't give money to people who hate you.,,Most people seem to think that Joel getting massacred like a dog two hours in is the low point. It actually gets much worse after that.,,As many unscored critic reviews have noted the story doesn't hold together, characters keep behaving erratically in constant about-faces about their motivations, worse and worse as the plot drags on. It's an hack job ny people in bad faith, without the writing chops to pull any of that off.,,Add unethical, deceptive advertising, way too much misery, constant over the top disturbing violence, and worse of all a blatant lack of respect for the player's intelligence and taste, bordering on contempt.
2481) This game is disrespectful, naughty dog practically pissed on the previous game. Just imagine this game didn't even exist and stick to the first one.
2482) The idea of the plot is precisely conceptually cool, but some kind of torn realization makes the impression blurry and you feel the events in the game separately from each other, because the connection between them is not really felt. I think that is why it is difficult for players to consider Joyel's murder in the context of the plot, and not as a separate event, and the same thing with the ending. I only feel sorry that I spent $60 and a lot of my time on this
2483) Good music, great visual style. The average gameplay. But the plot is terrible, especially Abby's line. Change the screenwriter.
2484) pure poop stain of a storytelling,,gameplay 7/10,,graphics 9/10,,story 69/10
2485) top tier graphic and visuals but just another weak interactive movie with garbage story and characters, no cap
2486) Ellie finds the true through a short flashback. Joel grows soft as survivor, he never would have fallen to that trap, in the first game he runs over a guy without a second thought. Jackson was so rich and nicely designed just to never be seen again. Would have traded Abby's playtime for playing through Ellie's "raging about the true" and bounding with other people like Dina. Hated the political correct checklist. And Owen's voice is as blank as a white wall.
2487) Boring as **** game, the only good thing about it is the graphics and the gameplay, but for a story focused game that doesn’t matter. Don’t buy this game even if it’s on sale, just wait until it’s free and play it for the gameplay, just don’t expect a good story.
2488) The game is not what was promised and it is an offense to his legacy. First, the most beloved character (joel) from the previous installment is killed in a treacherous and pathetic way and the worst thing is that they expect you to love the murderer (Abi) despite her actions.,He feels forced what is political, always trying to spit it in your face, we have paid a game to have fun, not to educate us.,The level design is boring, repetitive and confusing, many times it happens that you do not know where to go because it is not well designed, you cannot explore as freely as promised and it is boring because of how poorly designed they are many times, besides that later it happens that places are repeated (How can a place where criminal trials are made compared to a restaurant?).,The story feels stuffy, it has no rhythm and when you think it is going to get interesting, cinematic from a flashback.,The enemies are pathetic, they do not show intelligence, their patterns are all the same and repetitive and it becomes boring because just pressing two buttons is enough to kill them.,The music is poorly implemented, it is not supposed to be because you must listen to the enemies (which are scarce) and the game becomes monotonous and boring.,And the end....,I give a zero for the lack of respect that the creators had to the original game
2489) Disrespectful and insulting way to kill one of the best characters. Forces you to save the stupid cow responsible for that death. **** this game.
2490) Extremely disappointing in how the plot went.,The plot felt forced and does not makes sense according to the character's personality from LOU1.
2491) To whoever wrote the story: if you wrote it just to disgust fans of tlou1, you did a remarkable job. Congratulations.
2492) Loved the first because of its story bond between ellie and joel was beautiful but this game burned everything.
2493) A horrible end to a beloved character, being forced to play as a character you hate, violence as pornography, and it all being done in the now-common vein of “subverting expectations”. With such stupid narrative choices one can only assume the writers never read a book in their lives. What a sad waste of what could have been a brilliant series.
2494) This game should come with a mental health warning.,What can I say? A game I have been waiting for a long time TLOU2 is here and after a full play through I have been let down.,Now that’s not to say the game is without its merits. The most beautiful game I have ever seen beating RDR2 which is a great effort. Also the gameplay is just as good as the first game.,I only encountered 2 graphic issues. One during a nest in the hotel the game slowed down to a stutter and I felt like I was moving in slow motion for ten minutes. The other was during a cutscene late on in the game a character had been holding a brick but was comforting another so that brick was stuck in his face making me miss all the facial expressions.,The game is dark and I don’t just mean some of the creepy locations. It’s graphic from drug use to sex scenes and oh the violence. The game is filled with it most of the time it’s though provoking but it lays on some senseless deaths of main characters that happen in a split second for shock value.,The characters are incredible and are a joy to witness. Ellie, Joel, Dina, Tommy, Jesse and even Abby, Owen and Mel are all superb. I thoroughly enjoyed playing as Ellie and her interactions with her lover and friends.,My first 15 hours of gameplay I would of been giving this game a 9 out of 10. Then a switch happened. I’m sure I know what they were trying to do. It just doesn’t work. I have never played a character that I truly didn’t care if they die. The next ten hours where spent feeling forced to desperately like someone I was willing to throw of a high building over and over again. The story dips from there and I played through the worst boss fight in history. After feeling so disheartened the game gives you what you believe is an escape.,Only to then disappoint you with the finale. It drags the whole story down to feeling like the whole thing doesn’t matter and becoming a waste of your time. I so wish they had ended it at the 15 hour mark with an incredible ending. Instead they drag you kicking and screaming for another 14 hours to such an anti climatic and sad ending it may make you question playing a naughty dog game again.,Don’t play this game with mental health issues. There is no happiness or justice or light. It’s depressing.
2495) I didn't like the game at all. It doesn't deliver the hype and it isn't as good as the first game.
2496) Congratz Naughty Dog you have cost SONY a customer for life, with your shameful DM CA attacks to keep your bad deceitful ADVERTISING, your pathetic director's crappy story from coming out in mainstream reviews and trying to crush the leaks. all in an attempt to fool customers into buying your depressing preachy HYPOCRITICAL product. Seriously SONY some ANIME cleavage is absolutely unacceptable but you are allowed to put that awkward sex scene with Abbey and Owen, by the way a question Owen looks alot like Abbey's dad, are they related????? DISGUSTING.
2497) Solid Graphics, sound design and gameplay, however the story in this heavily story based game is hot garbage. The game's theme of revenge has been over done and cliché and does nothing of interest with said theme. Many of the new characters are unlikable for a variety of reasons and the characters from the previous game display plot forced stupidity and do things that make zero sense. The marketing material straight lies about certain things and more. Do yourself a favour and save your money for better games.
2498) I can't express enough how bad this game is. Every year a new sequel of great games comes out and it is ruined by greedy morons trying to earn money from game name and push out their believes onto people.,Ps. bought critics won't help you sell more copies
2499) The story is very bad. in fact, it's worse than bad, it's horrible. The ending is one of the most ridiculous things I've ever seen in games. It is unbelievable the path that the plot of that game took. It really is a shame. My recommendation for those who have already played the first game and are thinking of taking the second one is to stay away from this game. Keep only the good moments of the first game.
2500) The inept Direction of this game sadly detracts from the amazing visuals and solid gameplay. The creative decisions made in the story would be laugh out loud bad if only the game wasn't trying it's best to make you feel like crap for playing. Can not in good conscience recommend this game, especially to those who are attached to characters and themes of the first game. Truly heartbreaking.
2501) Subverting expectations with forced PC agenda truly has ruined what a great game the first one achieved.  Poor written characters and writing of the story as a whole and how Joel was dumbed down so much to fit with their forced agenda. Truly horrible writing. Reminds me of GOT season 8 lol. The ending just makes this game and hours spent on the game just worse and pointless such a revolting anti climatic ending.
2502) Crazy... 7 years of waiting for such a dissapointment.,+ Bad writing,+ Boring character
2503) Awful direction the game was taken in. Also overblown ego of the game director.
2504) Neil Druckmann's failed attempt at making a movie, oh wait... this is a game?
2505) It breaks my heart to write this, but I really did not expect such a poor story after all these years of waiting. It's so sad...
2506) dumbest tiresome game ever. Its one of those movies(not games) that think it's so smart by being unnecessarily bleak and brutal. NO YOU ARE NOT.
2507) 0 for 0 effort in a story. Also for spitting In faces of fans of first game. 0 for shove in my throat sjw ****
2508) I really was looking forward to this, didn't want the leaks to impact my view on this game, but.....,TERRIBLE STORY,I even made an account just so I can write this.,DON'T BUY THIS GAME. PERIOD.
2509) Best graphics and gameplay with the worst story, I really don't want to play as Abby.,,I hate you Neil.
2510) I'm just dissapointed. This game caused me worst feeling I can imagine. I can't handle that, they wasted so perfect story, characters and made them so dumb and brutal killers.
2511) If anything, this "non-game" should be a wake up call to how far removed mainstream critics are from the players.,,Cinematic experience on rail that is not fun might be okay for media contributor that only needs to go through this thing lightly once, but is that what ordinary players that don't have a philosophy degree want?
2512) Weak and politicized history...............................................
2513) If you’re a fan of the original last of us do not play this game.The story of the last of us part 2 ruined the whole game for me.
2514) This is an extremely terrible game that ruined all the good memories of part one. Joel died like a dog, Two main characters in the game are completely psychopath.
2515) This is what you get when you get inspired by Anita Sarkeesian. Good job. :)
2516) The last lacrador of us!!!!!!!!!!The last lacrador of us!!!!!!!!!!The last lacrador of us!!!!!!!!!!
2517) Perhaps the worst game of the century. SJW garbage and degenerate postmodernist propaganda. Such a waste of great potential.
2518) I finished the game about 5 minutes ago and I'm having very complicated feelings. The developers worked really hard to make the game and the graphics are really beautiful. Ellie's story, except the ending, made sense to me. However, I really dislike the fact that I had to play Abby's story for so many hours. Abby killed Joel without mercy, I'm having trouble understanding why Ellie spared her life at the end. I feel bad for the developers. To the story writers: if you kill Joel to move the story forward, at least let us have the revenge moment. Joel killed everyone to save his girl, and we just get to watch Abby get away? Whoever wrote the story, you should find another job. And yeah, you did hurt my feelings as a tlou fan.,,You won't believe how many times I killed Abby in the game. I literally did it 20+ time when Abby was in the theater fight Ellie. I should have left the game by then if I knew this ending was gonna be this.,,I told everyone this game was amazing. Now I have changed my mind. What a terrible ending. Ruined the whole fukin game.
2519) Look back,The sunset froze there,Dark and red froze in stripe,Ahead is the fog,Behind is deception,What have you done with our dream?
2520) Brilliant visuals and good gameplay are darkened by a hollow characters and a lame storyline
2521) Poor story of a poisonous propaganda. Honestly, was was Naughty dog thinking? Beyond terrible!
2522) Video 8/10,Gameplay 6.5/10,Story  0/10,,This game is SJW propaganda !!!!!!! STOP IT!!!! STOP SJW !
2523) A horrifically awfully told and badly paced story let's down a technical marvel. A title that should've been a slam dunk is instead relegated to the bargain bin for repetitive gameplay and nonsensical characters. Changed from a 3 to a 0 because of bots giving this game a perfect score.
2524) Sadly, and I hate to admit it. I didn't like the story of TLOU2. I understand that Joel was about to die in this story. But, it's the way he died and by the person who was taking revenge. I didn't like the relationship between Ellie and Joel turned out as well. The first part build up a pretty solid father daughter relationship. But, here I think Ellie is not clear with her thoughts and emotions. Which caused her actions taken in doubt. As, a player while playing with Ellie, it will make you feel why am I even playing this. The thing is there is no motive. The first game had hope, that the virus could be a cure. Hope is not the emotion this game has gone for, it's revenge mostly.,The character Abbey, is the worst character I had to play with in my gameplay history. Every time, she died I hoped she remain dead and the story end's right there. But, no she's the protagonist and the game makes you suffer her 10 hours long gameplay.
2525) They have turned a great franchise into a PC propaganda interactive film. And a bad one. It's just another good example of how terrible the specialised media really is.
2526) I put the game down halfway through, ain’t about to finish it. Achieved similiar "stunning graphics" on most of my PC games. Sold my copy on the used market already (yes, I warned the buyer, as is fair).,Welcome to repeat land. If you like dumb AI and harrowing sneak missions, you go girl.
2527) This game is embarrassing. You know what? I'm gonna play a game with a better story than this. Dead Rising! That is right. Dead Rising basically only has ONE story element. "The government are using Zombies for Money" But even THAT is more engaging than this failure of a game.,,Go play as Frank West in Dead Rising. You will have WAY more fun.
2528) This is **** Stop wasting your time and money on it. You are forced to play the worst character in the game history.
2529) A bad script can ruin the game experience. Please care about players’ feeling when you write a plot. Especially for the players who have supported TLOU for years.
2530) Wont let me write a negative review . Waited 7 years to play as Joel again. I wish I didn't give naughty dog any money after they deceived the fans with false trailers. Never felt so disrespected by a company in my life.
2531) bad story .. very bad ending .. i just hated it very much -_-,i cant lie it has good graphics and music .. but thats all i liked in it .,so sad and dark that i hated my self when i played it
2532) To be honest, I do not like it at all. It is just another piece of garbage. So disappointing.
2533) Holy **** **** this game is so goddamn bad, they take everything that made TLOU1 good, threw it away and made a horrible game, and now we're getting fake accounts and fanboys who haven't even played the game, rating it a 10 caus "BuH iT sUbVeRtS eXpEcTaTiOnS!!"
2534) Graphic score 9,  but the story score -10 In short, false advertisement, political correct, LGBT **** unreasonable character.,I feel sick about this sequel.
2535) Sadly, this sequel is a poorly written revenge story, which tries force its message down you throat, too which it becomes cringe worthy. They try to introduce new characters, but fails miserably in giving them any depth.
2536) I have some point :,1: This game is trash 2: This game is trash 3: This game is trash Thank you
2537) Incredible visuals. Improved gameplay from the original. A very disappointing story that betrays the themes set forth in the original. I waited a long time for this and I will never play this game again.
2538) What a joke of The lost of us title, please change the name to the lost of **** you don't deserve the original one
2539) BY THE POPE you gotta love those triple A companies who don't care to satisfy the fans and offer them great experience but to apeal to political views.  I feel sick of this garbage story. No matter how good gameplay/graphics are if your story is **** your game is unplayable.
2540) Graphics 9/10, Gameplay 7/10, Story 0/10. Naughty Dog **** it up badly. Leave your SJW-Agenda out of games.
2541) I can't find the words... I've never wanted to forget something more than this sequel even existed. It feels like a troll fanfiction forcing us to spit on our first experience with the franchise. Sure the game itself is great quality work but... The story ruins it completely, I had a hard time finishing the game, the majority of it is just plain boring. Not a good following story about our favorite characters.,Boycott Neil Druckmann!
2542) The game ruined its potential to be a great game. The story needs a lot of improvement. Characters just not really that good or decent, so many wrongs in the game to make sense. I would be dishonest if i gave it any score, as of now it deserves a perfect zero.
2543) The reputation of a generation has been ruined. I think your company's reputation is gone. The most wrong thing is Neil Druckmann, who turned naughty dogs into a joke.
2544) I played through and loved the first game and dlc 3 times with my most recent playthrough on the hardest difficulty and I have to say I'm very disappointed. This game was meant to be an improvement on its predecessor, and while the graphics and sound design are best in class, the slight gameplay improvements and story decisions are definitely disappointing. This game comes across as a needlessly morbid revenge plot where at the end of the story the character doesn't even get revenge. The game starts out in the first few hours killing off one of the two main characters from the original game in a way that doesn't make any sense with the character themselves. The character would never have put themselves in a situation like the game devs killed them off in. 10/10 reviews of this game are a complete joke, the devs faked game trailers leading consumers to believe this game would be something it is sadly not
2545) Sucks because IT sucks, cause IT sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sssss
2546) I hate part 2 in the same way I loved part 1,I hate part 2 in the same way I loved part 1,I hate part 2 in the same way I loved part 1,I hate part 2 in the same way I loved part 1
2547) Best exemple on how to ruin a franchise: kill the main character to promote SJW values. One of the worst story-lines ever.
2548) I am disappointed at this game overall; Naughty dog dropped the ball on this one. I waited 6 years for this game to come out, this is what i get. Very upset.
2549) The last of us 2's story is the biggest let down of the year, It tires to shove political agendas down the players throat in such an obvious way
2550) Gameplay is great, and Graphic is really beautiful.,But the story is the worst i've ever seen. SJW ruined this game.
2551) I have no idea what the story is saying.,I think the creator wanted to curse the Last of Us 1 fan.
2552) The game is Bad, simply bad The graphics are goods but the history is the baddest.
2553) Just another entry to the 'Get woke go broke' master list. What a shame, really.
2554) My friend who dont play this game, rate 10 only bcz of meme. So i rate it 0,  for justice.
2555) Half the game you will be like "yeah it's sad but I don't care", characters will be sharing stories that you don't connect to and you will just want it to end to play as Ellie. They tried really hard to make people to like this random new character by shoving so many side stories but well nobody cares. So basically players didn't get the game they wanted, Naughtydogs employees didn't get the game they wanted and most of them left and the director got to satisfy his ego by doing whatever the hell he wanted.
2556) Not worth the price. Bad Story and boring gameplay. Its more of the same. Barely some new ideas
2557) The game in the graphic and aesthetic theme is excellent, very good work due to the over exploitation of the naughty dog ​​to its underpaid workers.,It went from being one of the most recognized games for its great surround plot that introduces you to the game and creates empathy for the characters that compose it.,In this installment, Joel's death seems very forced and ridiculous, and the introduction of other absurd characters without any purpose, especially forcing to have empathy for the plot antagonist who is abby,,Also, in the end, it's so absurd to spend hours wanting to do the worst for what she did, and that Ellie forgives her in the end, I think that the game with these graphics, aesthetics and gameplay and a more detailed game and touching story, could be the same that the first installment, the community would have liked much more and would not have divided it by different tastes as it is now.,Thank you.
2558) Wait wait wait wait....HOLD ON ....STOP!,*ABBY TORTURE JOEAL AND KILLS JOEAL WITH A GOLF CLUB WHILE ELLIE IS WATCHING. ABBY BITES 2 OF ELLIES FINGERS AND LET'S ABBY ESCAPE IN A BOAT.* THIS GAME IS S H I T MAN. F*** THIS GAME! The hero of this game is ABBY. Next time do a ABBY GANE
2559) Okay this game is honestly not terrible but just really really disappointing.
2560) Who in their right mind thought it was smart to kill Joel that way? And then make you play as the murder for 10h??????????????
2561) I'm just here leaving this review, many people have already explained why this is such a travesty so I don't think I need to say anything more.
2562) I am very disappointed with some of the narrative choices the writers took, it feels like a gut punch to fans that have waited 7 years for this sequel.
2563) This was such a disappointment, you don't get the chance to revenge joel, the linear story made the game for me very hard to follow, there was no character development at all.,Half of the game you play as the antagonist and its boring af 10/10 with graphics, music and environment The rest its trash
2564) The death of Joel was cruel and the whole story of the game was a nihilistic mess, fullfilled with the pretentiousness of Neil Drunckmann and his wish of making a crushing videogame that will make us rethink our lifes in a philosophical matter but failed miserably. The ending it's a disgrace for the love fans felt for the first game and we sadly had to swallow a long, boring videogame representing a failure dressed with a bunch of nonsense. Written as a fanfiction with New characters so empty that make them forget table and scenes that are unecessary; this is probably one of the worst games of this generation. Neil trashed his magnum opus wanting to be a Yoko Taro. But he obviously cant. Don't play this.
2565) Players rushed into the office of the naughty dog and killed all employees except the screenwriter.
2566) Sony, thank you for paying game journalists and trying to sell your game as much as possible.,She's not worth it.
2567) What a trash game. Neil druckman can go and suck on anitas golfball.,Who cares anymore. Game is trash, game is trash, game is trash.
2568) it's worse game i ever seen videos about and 95% of people hate this trash and the company should apologies to the real fans of this game
2569) why you killed Joel like that. This game is garbage, don't waste your money to buy this game.
2570) **** this **** i cant believe they make it like that  i hobe to stop...............
2571) SJW scum.  Spit in the face of everyone who loved the first game. On no green earth is this a good game by any stretch. You are forced to witness the death of a beloved character and then play as the murderer of said character all the while the game wants you to sympathize with them. Then towards the end, Ellie can not even bring herself to take revenge but seems to have no problem killing hundreds of people instead. This game may receive lots of criticism for political reasons, I am just appalled and the disrespect this game showed towards the first one. Would not recommend, save your money folks.
2572) This is the 3rd time trying to leave a review for this game... let's hope it doesn't stop me like the previous 2 times. This game is a masterclass in how NOT to treat main beloved characters and interject the **** ideas that would usually be left on the digital cutting room floor. The graphics are great and the feel and gameplay is good. But who the hell plays games for that?story is what matters in these single player games. This one from the second joel dies to the end where ellie just let's Bby go basically saying nah I'm good have a good day. W...t....f
2573) If you are a Last of us part 1 fans, you will feel physical pain and sick in the stomach when you play as Abby, after her brutally murder Joel(because he killed her father in part 1) within 100 mins into the game. Also worth mention that Joel just walk into a room full of strangers(Abby and her friends), without any hesitation or suspicious, and said to everybody, “Hey, I’m Joel.” and JUST LIKE THAT, get himself killed. :),Will never purchase any game from naughty dog from now on to the end of my life:)
2574) After waiting for so many years, They Really ruined this story so hard... Characters are out of character, you play as a hated character half of the game... this left me depressed afterwards
2575) A clear push to force an agenda. I have no problems with lesbians, but if 70% of the dialogue with Ellie is some weird, FORCED LGBTBBQ junk then I immediately dislike the game. She says "bigot" for crying out loud. Combine it with the huge amount of plot holes, poor dialogue, the incredibly depressing story line and the very noticeable woman + every race has to be included checklist then it makes for a very poor game that leaves a bad taste in your mouth. This is why we were warned of politically correctness.
2576) The biggest mistake of the game is the delivery.,As you play they give you flashbacks and they have flashbacks in the flashbacks.,Worst offender is that they want you to sympathize with the enemy by giving you a flashback about 12 hours into the game when it is too late.,,With the **** up of delivery the story is ruined and it is a story driven game.,Your gameplay has 0 effect on the story.
2577) These estimates are very deserved, you Drakmen, very deeply licked Anita Sargsyan’s ass, you killed the legendary game, because of Joel’s death you didn’t finish playing the game, and the ending is generally **** up, looked very **** it’s bombed! But so to ditch the legendary franchise, it should be talent. Either you are autistic ****
2578) “Lets make Abby (Random Character) kill Joel in the beginning of the game then make players Play as Abby and let her play with dogs and bring her past and make her spare Ellie so people can sympathize and forcibly like her”,,What the Actual f were you thinking????
2579) In an attempt to subvert expectations the story of the last of us 2 ends up losing its ability to be enjoyable, and its ending results in one of the most pointlessly frustrating moment's to date. Its gameplay is mediocre at best, numerous other titles have both a better story and better gameplay.
2580) Unlikeable characters, almost filled to the brim with pandering, bad story telling, and smart characters being dumbasses for the sake of the plot alone. My biggest gripe about the game is this is Naughtydog. The same company that made the first game, and the entire Uncharted Series. Timeless classics. Proof that you KNOW they COULDVE and SHOULDVE done better here.
2581) I can't believe in this.,Destroyed the best gaming story,I wish it had been nice...,-1 fan
2582) I cannot describe how disappointed I am, waited 5 years just to get jebaited.
2583) Wtf this gameWtf this gameWtf this   this gameWtf this game Wtf this game Wtf this game
2584) First, Joel is not Joel, Ellie is not Ellie at All!!!! I will say The last of us never has the second one. I don’t admit this game’s storyline. The reason why I gave 0 score:,1.The trailer has fake contents. It has Joel in the game for further cutscenes. But they charged Joel to Jessie ( The Asian man). It is lying and misleading the players.,2. Joel and Ellie’s relationship totally changed. Joel was very cool and keep his feelings in heart not on the mouth. And Ellie was really like Joel, she used to be the one to follow Joel. Now Joel turns to be a kind daddy following Ellie, which is so not Joel.... 3. Joel is Waaaay smart than this! Save unknown stranger, and follow stranger to her place and telling them his real name after he killed so many ppl? Seriously?! I won’t even do that in the ending world. 4. The story is telling us not to revenge. But how can Abby killed Joel like a dog just after Joel saved his life??? Her father was holding his knife and preparing to fight with Joel, but Joel won! It is a fair fight. Why she got the anger to do revenge that that??? There are more things I disagree and feel super disappointed with the game. Especially knowing the background story about Neil Duchkmann ( Whatever he is) I feel he added too much of his own opinion to the story and totally changed Main Character‘s personality and IQ! He is trying to force ppl who play the game to learn his life lessons and won’t give us a chance to pick our own story. I literally cried after I saw Joel’s death and feeling super sad for few days. That’s why I am here to review this game here. I don’t really think Joel can’t die. He can, but not stupid like that! I hope you won’t waste your money on this game. I won’t play any more game that Neil is in.
2585) I really liked how you are forced to kill a dog then shown how much of a bad person you are for killing the dog. Great writing
2586) Disgusting story ever. Unreasonable story line. Just trash. Don't buy it. Don't play it.
2587) Following up one of the most acclaimed narrative action games ever is no easy feat, but for its first 12 hours, ‘The Last of Us Part 2’ hits lofty heights. Due to an awful final half, though, it all comes crashing down by the end. Worst character assassination ever / worst ending ever  This game sucks ASS
2588) I’m gay but this game is the worst thing I ever played. The story is so bad.
2589) This was my absolute favorite game and the reason I bought the ps4 in the first place, I feel absolutely betrayed by naughty dog for politicizing the game, they knew exactly what they were doing and its so far divorced from the original game its barely tangible to claim so. Blizzard, Bethesda and now Naughty dog have all completely all but denounced their fans and its a disgrace. You might think this post is just autistic screeching but I feel legit hurt over my favorite game being ruined, years of waiting. Thanks for nothing.
2590) I am absolutely disappointed with Sony. You had to control the quality of your games, but we first got the Death Stranding and now The Last of Us: Part 2
2591) Story made no sense, pointless ending, this Is nothing but a AGENDA filled game with no regard for the actual people who play the game. Naughty Dog soldout
2592) What a joke! Thanks to that spud Neil for destroying a wonderful game (TLOU) with this **** sequel of a story that I will pretend never happened
2593) Its a terrible shame this game turned out like this. I really hate to write it but I feel it would be dishonest to 1. say I enjoyed it or 2. blindly praise it like most if not all of the game journalists have, I will keep this spoiler free so some things are intentionally vague. I largely feel the overly positive reviews are based on the players political views, which anyone not heavily left will likely take issue with something here, just like the overly negative ones, this divisional stance the writers took is why my score is so low as I feel this is an extremely poor tactic to take. The first game did not have this issue, it was largely a story of personal struggle and growth of Joel set to a virus outbreak. This game relies so heavily on political flavor of the week that its story is 2 dimensional if those ideals don't align with your own. Thats not going to bring anyone over to your side, though I'd argue that a game is not the place to make such broad arguments as a form of escapism people don't want this stuff shoved in their face from every angle. OK so on to the actual game, it plays well and looks fantastic, though the gameplay has seen no upgrade or change other then a character/gender swap of the MC, which honestly for a game made in 2013 I was expecting some new mechanics especially since Elly is smaller and weaker then Joel. The lack of any online component is fine by me as ND games are story driven and don't need it, but if an online mode wasn't part of this game then why has so little time been dedicated to improving or tweaking the core mechanics? There are other cheap/cheesy things done here such as Druckman scanning himself into the game as yet another poorly driven plot point. The last point I will make is regardless of your stance of right vs left no one and I say confidently NO ONE wanted a forced fully motion captured transsexual sex scene
2594) Not good. Joel deserved better. As did the players. Why am I Abby? I don’t want to be Abby.
2595) Garbage story , Not listening to the audience , and i just want to forget about this game .
2596) This game is an insult to previous game.,,The most overrated game this generation.. the "critic" reviews are either fake or the reviewers are too boneless to say how generic the gameplay is and how terribly the story and characters are written
2597) This game is trash, you naughtydog **** homo LGBT, **** transgender, **** storyline, we wait for 5 years to get this trash come on man....
2598) Waited 7 years for this junk? Joel, a veteran survivor dumbed down to telling strangers his real name and where he stays, walks into obvious traps. Don't even get the revenge deserved because we know the saint Abby has big arms and bigger plot armor. I'm so disappointed
2599) Worst game ever , graphic is good but, Other than that everything is Terrible, the story is worst The studio is bad, Unfortunately, I just lost my money
2600) - Poor handling of new characters,- Plot holes,- Confusing flashback sequencing (there are flashbacks within flashbacks),- poor character design,- lack of character development,- Deaths simply for shock value,- Cringy dialog,- Poor storytelling in comparison to the first game,- important side characters are not developed enough
2601) Not what expected. Poor plot and poor character development. Don't play this game
2602) Best developed, but worst written fan-fiction ever made.,Thank you Anita Sarkeesian, very cool!
2603) They should revive Joel. And specially Kill Abby nobody likes her she should be dead
2604) Look how they massacred my boy... Worst story ever written. Ruined the characters. Can't Eben replay the first one now with this in mind...
2605) First thing , I am not a bot.,I`m just another guy who is upset about this "10/10" sequel.This disgusting sequel is so ridiculous that makes me create this account to vent my anger as my first/only rating.,As a TLOU player, I can`t accept this plot for Ellie and Joel.
2606) This highly anticipated game, which has been in development for years, is one of the worst games I have ever seen. The reviewers not only on Metacritic but on all other sites are paid. The "gameplay" in this movie is walking from cutscene to cutscene while listening to a dialog. The game studio has been infiltrated by questionable people and thus a horrible game was created. "women" in the game look like men with masculine features and faces. Previously known characters have been defied and destroyed. The story makes no sense and is filled with unnecessary characters and kills off important ones. It makes you kill countless people, and then not the main villain, which you play as by the way, Every reason people liked the first game, gets annihilated. This game is bad on so many levels, the 5000 characters are not enough. I am in a loss for words. This is such a bad and laughable game, future generations will remember this as the most hated game of this century. Whoever was in charge of the development should not be allowed to work in the game industry ever again! The budget was wasted money and should have been used to refund every copy ever sold. I hope Naughty Dog never recovers from this epic fail.
2607) Scenario is a disaster. It's better to imagine that part 2 never existed at all.
2608) Okay. I really tried to like this game. This game should have been good and i do believe that it is a good game but only if you have not played the first game. The quality of the voice acting is amazing, the graphics (at least on the PS4 pro) are great and i think the environments from the aesthetics of each location down to the environmental storytelling, through notes and such, is done superbly. Hell actually playing the game is quite fun. Where this game lacks is its prime narrative.,,The last of us part two is entirely unfaithful to the characters that were set up in the first game. If your reading this review i am sure you already know that Joel dies. This alone has been a very controversial event and i want to break it down a little bit. People are not angry that Joel is dead. Everyone knew he was going to die, i didn't see any of the pre-release spoilers but i knew Joel was going to die. It makes sense in this world and for his character. the previous title already made it very clear that Joel is a man who has very few moral lines left to cross, who has done things that will mean his hands will never be clean. It makes sense that something from his former years will catch up to him. What has pissed people off is the way they handled his death. I think its very naive of naughty dog to think that killing off one of the most beloved characters in gaming would bring anything but backlash.,,Games are a medium which need to, to an extent, evoke emotion and that is one thing this game dose not lack. I was sad, angry but mostly disappointed that such a massive personality in gaming would be removed in such a half arsed, brutal way that is handled so poorly. Joel as a character that we are invested in deserved a better death that being helplessly tortured in front of Ellie, before having his brains bashed in. So your telling me that the continuation of the story, that literally gave me faith and respect for the artists (Devs) that create in this medium, is over. Just like that. bang! done! That is it. One of the most compelling plot devices and relationships in the whole of gaming is done. And maybe i could have forgiven that. Maybe it could have been a good way to drive us as the player and really, really explore what hatred, anger and revenge will do too someone and the consequences of these actions and at first i thought that, that is where it was going. And to an extent they explored this with Ellie's torture scene and the killing of Mel, Abby's pregnant 'friend', and yes it did go further as you see Ellie after coming back from Seattle is suffering from PTSD but this didn't go far enough in my opinion.,,I think that one of the key failures of this game is that its trying to be this big sweeping narrative where the bad guys can also be the good guys and vice versa but it just dose not work and it falls flat because we as the player do not care in the slightest about Abby and her motivations. i actually thought Abby's motivation was actually handled quite well. i think that this game being so heavily linked to the firsts ending is a very good idea. but once again we don't care about her. It dose not matter how many sad flashbacks there is or how many zebras you save with Abby's dad. The player, especially if they have played the first game, automatically hates her. And the game has the audacity to push into playing as her so you feel some kind of emotional investment in her as a character but by that point its too late. She has already been portrayed as a **** evil, psychopath which if anything is only supported once you have finished her game-play section. In my honest opinion the third and forth acts where you play as Abby are awful and so uninspired.,,Now the ending. Oh my god.,I wont be commenting on any specifics as the final act of the game was not reviled in the leaks from a few weeks back but all i will say is its **** There is no conceivable reason as to why ellie would act the way she dose at the end and yes i know its a commentary on revenge and how a path of revenge will only lead to your own downfall. Its a play on the saying "If your going on a path of revenge, dig two graves" but i still feel this falls flat.,,Basically i gave this game everything i could. i tried very hard but it has failed. And one of the worst things about it is that it makes you go through a emotional roller coaster with absolutely no reward or sense that the story is finished. the best parts of this game are Ellie's flashbacks with Joel. So my plead to naughty dog is this. De-canonise this game and do one of three things. One: never ever touch this IP again, Neil cannot be trusted to write another of these games. Two: remake it and tell the story how it should be told. Three: if you do make another game set it as a prequel to part 2 because the flashbacks that explore Joel and Ellie's relationship are the only truly good parts of this game.
2609) The worst game of 2020. It is an insult to the players of the part 1 of the game.
2610) awful. it destroyed everything that made the first game good and was made to purposely upset people
2611) Never in my life have I played a game so blatantly motivated by SJW hysteria whilst simultaneously destroying the memory and reputation of a previous installment.   Naughty Dog has just taken a huge dump on its fans and made you pay for it too.   As long as Neil Druckmann is behind any future games I will not be buying them, what the hell were you thinking Naughty Dog?
2612) 1- Make a terrible story wich spits in the face of any1 playing it (specially on the previous entry fans),2- Add gay character,3- People criticize because point 1,4- Pretend game is being review-bombed because point 2,5- Profit,,GG ND
2613) All the critics have been paid! Cruel. This game will throw the fan into depression, mental issue. Neil Druckmann should be fired. He ruined everything with his sick fetish. I'm not talking about the gay relationship. He makes Ellie become a blood thirsty **** hole. He forced you to kill dogs, after that he shows you that the dogs are cute.,Then Neil forced you to play as a new character abby, 50% of the time. When you start to fall in love with the new character, he ask you to kill her. Fckin sick! Privileged c*nt.
2614) Good graphics, awful story they spit in the face of fans with this.Waited 7 years for this effort is an absolute disgrace.
2615) The game is gorgeous honestly, voice acting is top notch. But I got bored from the gameplay like halfway through the game. The story is I dont know. I dont care about all directions that they could have gone with the story. But the main theme of the game "Revenge is bad" is generic not unique, and they were trying to make us feel bad for some characters we killed like Nora or Mel, but for me honestly they failed. I left the game not convinced that revenge is not worth it.
2616) "The first game was a game about love. This game is about hate." -Druckmann,Me: "Kinda fitting really, because fans loved the first one, and hated the second one."
2617) Some MSM media in game industry notes an absurd 'principle' -  'not finished (the full game), unqualified to comment' (They wanna blame the blast users reviews on Metacritic with this rated in less than 24 hours after the release). So here is the question:  'Do you need eat up a full pile of s*** to confirm it is actually a s*** ? '
2618) Subverted my expectations, I expected a good game but got a pile of trash. I'm very disappointed that the plot has so many holes when it's not even a complicated story. The more I watch other people play the game, the more flaws I see. Indefensible.,,I would say a fair score for this game is a 3 or 4/10, but since people are review bombing this game with 10's without giving it any thought, it needs to get a 0 from me. I absolutely do not recommend it. The story sucks everything out of the game leaving nothing to be enjoyed in its wake. The gameplay is fine, the graphics are good, the sounds are great, but none of that can compete with this abysmal story. This game doesn't deserve a 0 but it's a far cry from a 10.
2619) I love the first game but this is a Really bad and poor story telling, But the graphics and the and gameplay is good, but very bad planning the story which everyone was excited for, but lead into a disappointment.
2620) This is not THE LAST OF US PART II,This is Game of Thrones (Season 8),This is fraud
2621) Very very very very very very very very very very bad story Spoiled TLOU game
2622) Poor story, unenjoyable game play, badly written characters. Completely disappointed beyond belief. 7 years of waiting for a game to **** all over what the first one set up
2623) Neil dickman ruined this game！,He is a total egomaniac and narcissist！,This shxt make me sick！,PLZ DO NOT BUY THIS GARBAGE！！
2624) Looks great, gameplay is stagnant, story is terrible with a poetic ending completely out of place in this world. Complete failure if what they tried to deliver.
2625) the game is excellent in all technical aspects, however unlike its predecessor, the last of us part 2 presents a disappointing story with an unworthy ending of the characters of the franchise.
2626) This game is a cuck out of ten. Wasn't expecting such cuckiness. It looks like a cuck. It plays like a cuck. It's not a masterpiece. It's a cuck. It's not any random cuck. It's a naughty dog cuck. Not a cuck from the old dogs. A cuck from the new improved cucks. The new dogs. The new cucks.,,If you're a cuck, you'll love this cuck. So, don't buy this game. Don't be a cuck.
2627) 60 bucks are gone.,The narrative is really low-end and the final part is stupid af. The has a very aggressive political agenda.
2628) Nope. Just Trash. Don't buy, don't play. If you love TLOU1 then don't do yourself the disservice and save your money for something better.
2629) You guys are just using PC.,You guys just ruined everything we loved.,Thank you so much to ruin my good memories for Last of Us.,Take care yourself.,If you want to propagate your ideals, just make a new IP.,Thank you too Metacritic!
2630) They destroy the good story of tlou1.    dont play this **** Dont waist your time and money to play this ****    just play tlou1 and think they will live happily ever after
2631) This is the first and last game I've ever pre-ordered. The trailers outright lied to us. Even watching them now, after having beat TLOU2, I can't help but feel excited for what could have been. So much potential, even more disappointment. The Last Of Us 1 is a marvel, one of my favorite games of all time. The sequel spit on it and forced us to be in agony as we struggled through to the end looking for resolution. My problems have nothing to do with gender or sexuality and everything to do with story and the destruction of beloved characters. I hope some day I can get this feeling out of my chest and view the sequel as a horrible fan fiction. Until then I'll continue to find solace knowing that my fellow gamers are grieving just as hard.
2632) The critics are out of touch with reality. Wait till this thing is on GameStop's Bargain Bin or just play the fist one.
2633) Everything the first game built on was destroyed in this game , characters we loved and knew are different now new characters seems forced in our throats to be loved but dead anyway hidden agenda clearly shown in the game plot that doesn’t make sense , awesome graphics doesn’t make a game .
2634) Bad writing, I'm okay with Joel dying, but the story itself of the revenge it's so bad
2635) This game is an absolute joke. I have never experience such a unsatisfying storytelling and ending in a video game in my life.,,Ellie throughout her journey she has experience nothing but loss and suffering. First you have Joel dying in the first two hours of the game, got her friend killed, and she lost her fingers which makes it so Ellie was unable to play guitar which is the closest thing she has to Joel,,Meanwhile, you have Abby being able to get away with everything without any consequences.,,In the first game, during the journey Ellie and Joel relationship gets deeper and deeper, but here in this game it's just a **** you Ellie journey.,,2/10 don't make another.
2636) Everything built up in the previous game was destroyed here. Side characters weren't memorable, story made no sense, and the ending was absolutely garbage. The devs tried to go for realism by killing characters randomly, but this makes for horrible story telling where all your favorite characters will end up dying.
2637) I'm very disappointed, the final was so bad, it's a very long story and a lot of parts I don't like it
2638) This is one of the most depressing games I’ve ever played and the ending is awful,I can’t believe I waited 6 years for this sequel... so disappointed
2639) I’ll start off by saying that I have never done a game review. If I was unhappy about a game I just complained to friends about it and sold it for something else. In this case I’ve come here to give a real review because I believe in this case the fans need to be heard loud and clear and in mass. I absolutely loved the first installment of this series, it was quite literally the best game I have ever played. I’ve spent hundreds of hours replaying the original and the remaster and It’s never made me feel like its a chore. The character development and character relationships were incredible, the story was absolutely spectacular and when I found out there was going to be a Part II I was over the moon. I heard the leaks and the here say about how this wasn’t going to compare to the first and to expect something much different. I kept an open mind and began playing after work on launch day. After just about 2 hours I didn’t even want to go any farther. I just wanted to turn my PS4 off and return the game. I took a day to think if I wanted to see if it got any better, and as you could have guessed it didn’t. In all my years of gaming I haven’t seen something with so much potential just fall so flat. This game is dead on arrival and there are so many plot holes I was in disbelief that the studio released it. I couldn’t care less if the main characters were gay, straight, black, brown or purple. I loved Ellie’s character in the first game, and the people saying people only hate the game because of the gay protagonist is just untrue. Where is the personalities and traits of the characters that were already developed because they were nowhere to be seen? This game has absolutely nothing of value in it, it’s utterly garbage. I’ve waisted 60 dollars on something that I’ll never get back not to mention the time finishing the game for the sake of finishing it just so I would have ground to stand on to write this review. Naughty Dog...... We were expecting so much from you and you’ve let your fans down as much as you possibly could. Between the terrible AI, horrible story, terrible attempts to make characters you’re suppose to end up liking relatable, and the pathetic attempt at shock value to justify the terrible writing is despicable. In my mind this game doesn’t exist and the first installment is just a fantastic one off that will leave me wondering what ever became of the Joel and Ellie we all came to know and love and probably actually connected with. Save yourselves the money and don’t line the studios pockets because I’m 99% sure you will regret it. If you want watch your favorite YouTuber or streamer play it. In numbers out voices can be heard, hit them were it hurts...... in the pocket book.
2640) This game broke my heart but in the worst posible way ................................................................
2641) Fanfic writing at best. There are some shards of good writing (specially in the flashbacks), but in general just a amator plot that tries too hard to hide the criticism by adding liberal agenda (I don't care) and accusing any critic of "hur dur homophobia". It's pathetic and, if you look at the news titles regarding fans score, it's effective. What frustrating me more is that it does have good design, an ok gameplay and very good graphics. Great potencial. Horrible execution.
2642) Horrendous,just horrendous how they killed the franchise, there's nothing of value left here, everything is vile now: story, characters, gameplay, interactions.,Just don't play it if you loved the 1st part and don't want to ruin your experience.
2643) This is the worst sequel for a video game ever, you waited 7 years for this and than they destroy the whole  Story and Character from the first part which you loved. For an character named abby which nobody cares about. Really Nd thats such a shame
2644) I've never EVER cared if a game is about pandering lgbti. It has never bothered me, but if something does, is that if something is story driven, IT HAS TO HAVE A GOOD STORY and this is quite the opposite. The story speaks for itself and it's really telling us that the developers hate us, that, or they wanted to wipe their asses with the people who bought the first game and ACTUALLY cared for it as a whole, people who loved the characters, the gameplay, the story, the atmosphere, the music, every single bit of it. Killing the character we all know too well, and nothing at the same time, was the biggest mistake of the developers. Not even killing it, but killing it in the way it was, was really humilliating, and I felt the humilliated person was ME as the player. Making you play as the killer in the second half of the game made me not sympathize with it, quite the contrary, made me hate it. This game was an utter insult to everyone who played the first one. The leaker(s) saved me a lot of money, because I was about to buy the collector's edition, and I'll be forever grateful for that kind act.
2645) I've been waiting, but not for this.,I pre-ordered, but not for this.,I stayed up all night, but not for this.,This is the greatest fraud in the history of video games.,Nice graphics but now it doesn't matter, because Neil Druckmann has single-handedly destroyed what the series stand for, and what made TLOU remarkable in the first place.,,“It weren’t us who changed.”,-Arthur Morgan
2646) TLOU 1 is my favourite game of all time. This game however, spits in the face of everyone who loved it. The graphics and gameplay is beautiful. The story however, is like bad fan fiction taken off of a college campus for gender studies.,Everything you can think of that's cliché and "diverse" is put in there without any kind of sense. Having a trans woman kill off the favourite character in the first 30 minutes of the game is awful.,I sincerly hope that Naughty Dog takes the anger seriously, and don't try to make it about people not being as woke as them. Stories like this don't make the legend that the first game did. They should've looked at the success of the first game and learnt from it, not trash it's legacy for the sake of SJW-idiocy.,I do NOT recommend anyone to buy this game. Watch the gameplay on youtube and you'll understand.
2647) The first game was and still is a masterpiece. This second one, is GARBAGE. I was ok with the idea of Joel dying in this game and let Ellie be the protagonist. But, the way they did it, made me nauseous. First, killing in the most disgraceful way the most beloved character of the series and then forcing you to play as his murderer? It's INSANE.,If they wanted to get rid of Joel, they should at least show us some more of Abby, create some love for the character, make us simpathize with her cause and then get to this point in the story. There is nothing wrong in changing main characters. Take for example The Walking Dead Season 1. The death of Lee was shocking, but was a honorable death. A remarkable moment in the series just to pass the torch on to Clementine to make her own adventure.,Not only that, but they gave us the most horrible and disgusting sex scene I've ever seen in a video game or any other media. I had to turn my face away from the screen thinking the foul smell in that room. Anime boobs = CENSORED; Abby an Owen f***ing like two dudes in a prison cell = MASTERPIECE; WTF!,But they saved the best for last. When you finally thinks that the gameplay is going to be worth playing by killing Abby and get the so renowed "revenge", Ellie spares Abby. Not even a choice was given: to kill or not to kill Abby. Ellie ends with her "dad" dead, her friends dead, her girlfriend gone with their baby and two less fingers. And Abby? Abby is fine and dandy leaving with her friend into a new adventure where she can destroy more lives as she did with the characters of this franchise and its fans.,
2648) I didnt rate a game ever and never let sb have influence on my decisions but this game made me to do it (rip my teenager memory of lou1 ) this game have impressive mechanics with chubby controller and **** story (feed us what they want and have no respect to their fans)
2649) This game is absolute garbage, the story is terrible and it should absolutely be considered as never existing to keep The last of us as a good memory
2650) I wanted to fair, I really did but after everything they did. The story and characters aren’t good, typically I would say that doesn’t matter as much as you play a video game for the game play but for a story driven game it’s a different; well story. Credit where it’s due the graphics are good but I was one who never much cared for graphics, I don’t exactly play my GameCube for it’s graphics. Still even after the bad story, unlikable characters, and political themes (that last seems to be getting into everything nowadays) I was going to give this a 3/10, however the producers of this game did a few things, some of which was illegal. They struck down and copyrighted multiple Youtubers not for showing leaked game play, footage, or images but for merely talking about it. Call people names and accusing them of being horrible things for merely disagreeing with you is already crossing the line but this? Like I said I wanted to fair but after showing us that they wouldn’t be fair, well my score speaks for itself. If I can leave you with one piece of advice it would be this, treat the fans of your IP well because without them you’re nothing more but a fading memory.
2651) Literally the worst of the worst story I've seen recent years. It destroys everything good about Part 1.
2652) The story is terrible, it’s like Joel is a different  character in this game. No character development. So this game is ruined by bad writing just like Star Wars the last Jedi saga and game of thrones season 8. Bad writing. Bad character development. They ruined one of my favourite games of all time..
2653) Sucks so bad. The story is disjointed and winding. Introducing new factions 11 hours in
2654) it kills me to see Naughty Dog deconstruct its franchise/characters in such a violent and pointless narrative, all for (in my opinion) the purpose of shock factor and expressing a very generic message of revenge. I normally don't leave bad reviews, but I'm making an exception in this case, as i feel the need to voice my displeasure. I can't with good conscious support this game, and this coming from a fan who loved the first part.
2655) This game insulted me and disappointed me more than anything else in my life’s my life! I can’t can honestly say I wish this had never been made
2656) It is not game of year! TLOF have tons problems. Weak plot, stupid and infantil characters, visual bugs and glitches, political influence in game. More "professional" critics is false and corrupt freaks. Don't trusе them.
2657) In a word...this game is a ****,If you guys have psychological disorder,,Don't play this ****
2658) Story is complete garbage. Only good part are the flashbacks with Ellie and Joel. Playing as Abby was a chore. This is trash. Naughty dog did my dude Joel dirty
2659) Worthless story that is forced on the player and unengaging gameplay. The fact that "critics" score it so highly is just another example of media control and manipulation.
2660) Crap sjw game. They ruined the franchise with this one. Don’t waste your money
2661) You know, respect is one of the most important things in life, this game has none. And the respect it does have is infuriating, which is a bad way to tell a story.
2662) Why did such an endearing character have to end that way?  We will never know the answer, but what we do know is that you cannot empathize with a character as disgusting as Abby, someone who does not hesitate to kill by surprise and in a treacherous way, without any honor and with a f....... golf , that’s just ridiculous
2663) Прости Шевцов, но...,I understand that this is a forced measure, as much as I would not want to drown the game of children, but I need to remind the Studio that the rating is made by the players, and not by fem from twiter.
2664) The gameplay? More of the same, and it's not necessarily bad. Graphics are good. The game takes a nosedive by having lost initial focus, and its laces with political agenda. I am sorry, the first game was a story about retaining humanity in trying times, even the DLC was excellent, but this just seems shoehorned and uncompelling and hell. This is a "Netflix adaptation tier" story that doesn't deserve this budget and quality.
2665) The year 2020 is bad with the pandemic, adding in Last of Us Part 2 story line it became worst game of the year.,How about playing a character that everybody hate for 10 hours get you perfect scores.,,Last without Us,Totally having the opposite value of Part 1,They think Tommy/ Joel is newbie by revealing their name easily to unknown person,Squeezing last drop of gamer $$,Lost my 2 fingers for nothing,,IGN 10/10.
2666) The Last of Us 2 tries too hard to be unique and moving to the point whee it all feels basic. Killing one of the most beloved characters in gaming and then making you play half the game as the person who kills him is a daring move that I admire, but it ultimately falls flat. It just was not executed very well. Killing Joel was a decent move that I probably would have done if I were writing the story for this game, but once again, the execution was just nonexistent. To be completely honest, I think that this story would've ended better with Ellie being killed off. The backlash from fans would probably be even worse, and the current ending is getting way more hate than it deserves, but in a game that is meant to be depressing and hopeless, I honestly think it wouldn't be a terrible move. Naughty Dog should probably strongly consider making Tlou 3, and yes, they should have Ellie die at the end. It would be the much needed closure that this franchise needs and would help capture the feel of what this post-apocalyptic world really is about. Speaking of this post-apocalyptic world, everything just felt off about it in this game. The first game really felt like the player was doing every thing to survive in this zombie-like outbreak, but in this game the infected seem like they're in the game just because they had to due to the continuity from the first. When I think about this game, I barely even remember that the infected were in it, when they were.... the literal reason for this entire scenario. So is this game a total fail? No. It has some of the best visuals in the history of gaming, and the gameplay (while remaining the same throughout and being almost being a replica of the first game) is still extraordinary and the enemy AI was some of the smartest I've ever seen in a video game. So is the story that bad? For a triple A game, it's very good. For a Last of Us game, it is god awful. Probably my biggest gripe with the story is that this just didn't feel like it was the Last of Us. Ellie, who is my favorite character in gaming history, didn't really even feel like Ellie to me. Everything just felt off in this game, and I think most people agree. So as a standalone game, this game is an 8-10. As a Last of Us game, it is a 3-5. The reviews for this game are absolute nonsense from both sides of the coin. There are tons of people who had in their mind they were going to like the game no matter what, and there were tons of people who were going to hate the game no matter what (mostly because of the leaks.) And yes there are quite a few political points raised in this game; not as many as people make it sound like, but enough to make quite a few people upset, especially when pretty much all of it is completely unnecessary (for example, bigot sandwich.) The lgbt+ representation in this game is something almost unheard of in very popular games, so yes, a lot of lgbt+ people are going to be a little more inclined to say this game is very good. On the other side, you have people who do not like the lgbt+ representation, so they will be more inclined to say the game is not very good. In conclusion, while this game tries to be something to be more special than it is and comes across as a little pretentious, and has a somewhat lackluster plot, it's still one of the best games out there, and most of the reviews (good and bad) are biased. But as a TLOU fan, I was extremely disappointed.
2667) Excellent details,Excellent picture,Junk game plot,Completely different from the trailer,Please suggest the correct script,It is clearly a mistake now
2668) Worst game ever. So disgusting. Waste of money and time.,Neil Druckmann does not deserve to be producer of the last of us.
2669) Haven’t done any review before but this is gonna be the first review because this game is bad. The whole plot doesn’t make any sense because the characters from tlou1 are out of characters. It’s okay that our beloved character is dead but can’t it be a better situation? And don’t even start with the long play time with the unexpected character Abby. Last but not least, why the fuxk would the game director keep blaming all the gamers that are complaining and not trying to understand where the rages are coming from? Never buying any naughty dog game unless some action would be taken like kicking that stupid director out of the company.
2670) Finished the game, i feel straight up insulted. at least we'll always have the first game to play when we want a story that's actually good
2671) Story is complete trash and is infuriating playing Abby a character you absolutely have no connection with. poor storytelling how Joel died and the politics involved. The game is about Ellie getting revenge and doesn’t even get her revenge Abby gets all the revenge lives while Ellie loses everything in the end this story is comparable to the season 8 of game of thrones leaves you absolutely frustrated.
2672) This game was nothing more than garbage. After the first two hours of the game, I was hoping that Joel's death wouldn't be real, however, I was sadly disappointed with tears crying out for someone I dearly cared for. They did him, and the world they built around him, dirty. I'm hoping this game COULD see a remake because it was that terrible or if they try to make a part III, I'm hoping no one is going to buy it. I regret buying this game
2673) Very poor written, unfair in every possible way. I regret ever starting on this game - Now my brain will be stuck with the picture of joel getting beating to death with no chance to even put up a fight. Pathetic, Naughty Dog.,Even so, the characters feel like new characters based on their decisions (Ellie, Tommy) Hate this game - All this waiting time and literally for nothing.,I cracked my disc today, and I would do it all over again.
2674) 0/10,is a ****,you play ****,you like **** u go buying this ****,don.t buy this
2675) Joel does in the most bs way ever.    This is an absolutely terrible game and some people are being blocked from leaving bad reviews
2676) Such pi of sh, it is not the old naughty dog,The new naughty dog gonna disappear soon
2677) I will say it as a progressive gay man. This game is bull crap. I can't believe there was so little respect to it's precursor. It's less of a game and more of a movie with an agenda. Graphics were decent yeah, but everything else is beyond horrible. it's downright criminal no less
2678) I liked that we got to play as Ellie one more time and continue her story. I don't like how Joel died, I don't like that we had to play as Abby for as long as we did, I did not care for Abby, I hate that we did not get to get revenge at the end. Ellie went out for revenge and for what? To let Abby go and to lose her girl and adopted child? Joel dying wasn't the issue, it was how he died. Sure you could make an argument that Joel has softened in his older age but the Joel from the first part wouldn't have trusted those strangers so easily.,,They could have told the same story and honoured the first game better than they did. At one point I was like "There's no way they're going to make me also kill Ellie as Abby!?".,,To summarise, I'm happy to have played as Ellie one more time, I just feel like it was not executed the best. The game is beautiful nevertheless but storytelling wise, it could have been better.
2679) This is a milestrone as far as bad games go.,Appeal to a crowd of sunflowers. Absolut disgrace to a game.,I played it. Here is my spoilerfree opinion about this whole thing: they advertised it as a 20-30 hour game that can be replayed. It took me about 17 hours to play the whole thing and i think replaying it wouldnt give any additional experiance. Also they advertised the main characters wrong on purpose in the trailer to bait the fans and hide the main plot of the game (which is in a way understandable),There are a lot of people saying its sjw **** for gay people and feminists. Personally i dont care about anyone's sexuality or gender or etc as long as it doesnt hurt the story itself. Sadly this game treated the well established characters like being gay or trans is the biggest thing or "skill" they have and the most important.(for a long time those things were in focus) which for me hurt the story. The gameplay is a bit repetative but its really brutal, fluid, enjoyable and the graphics are beautiful.
2680) Honestly??? Bad scripts....bad story......nice game play but c'mon im not in to getting something just for that. Very disappointed tbh expected a lot more :(,,Sad just sad.
2681) They should have made a gay edition instead of this ****,So much potential were wasted for gay rights
2682) The critics are so blinded. I don’t understand how this game can get 10 out of 10 score
2683) Weak Sauce Game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
2684) Progre, forced story, terrible ending, who the hell got the idea to kill joel???, at least they would have let us choose whether we want to forgive abby or kill her
2685) What a waste of a potential to explore the story between joel and ellie naughty dog has ruined what could have been a great game. The first one was amazing but this just has ruined the experience of the first game for me
2686) After ending.,,I dont want to play again.,,Bad Story line ruined the game.,,As director said,,,Take my fury and 0 point.
2687) this game is too bad .,let me say it in another way ,it sucks,why should we just stay there an watch the **** death  and grouns and screams of our beloved character joel and not kill that mother **** at the end ?
2688) If you love the story in TLOU 1, don't bother buying part 2, save your money for other games.,The character development is complete disaster.
2689) disappointing, who is a real fan knows what I'm feeling right now, a game that only brings you sadness.
2690) I'm real person and was a big fan of ND for years! I still can't believe how you and Druckmann destroy such masterpiece like TLOU! Why did you do this to your fans and our loved character? The story of the game is really BAD.  It's such crazy like if you played 10 hours as David just after killing and eating  Ellie in the first part of the game. And Joel forgave him at the end, and after that David became new protagonist in TLOU. This is madness.,The only one thing that is good is graphic. Not even gameplay, it's almost the same like in TLOU1,I rating TLOU2 in next way,0 for story,3 for graphic,1 for gameplay,BUT thanks to ND disrespectful behavior and lies to fans i cant rating this game more than 0,I hope some day ND will fix it and create real TLOU2 but not what they did
2691) Like for gameplay, 2 points maybe deservedly, but I want play Elly, Tommy or Joel but not this person which appears in second half, this is not interested - minus 2 points. This just like fanfic 12 y.o. girl, nothing linked with last of us(2013), but this really funny I often laughing, nice rofl
2692) This isn't worth your time, or $60, or even watching streaming. Go play anything else.
2693) This game feels like it was poorly written and it should never deserve high praise for anything besides the fact that it did put a spotlight on the LGBT community as a positive thing but my main problem with this entire game is the fact that it's supposed to be a revenge story but the only person that got revenge for what they were trying to get revenge for was the person that everyone is hating on even though there's nothing really to hate on her for yes she's not aesthetically pleasing or that much of a relevant character in anything of what we've had and the fact that they killed off from Joel and how they did it was subpar at best and we should never try to say that this game is worth the money that it is asking for because there are major plot holes in the entire game and Ellie from the first game feels non existence her character drive or ark feels small she has no effect on me at all and that sucks because I was such a big fan of the first game yes this entire thing of zombies really scares me and it's a good thing that it does because I play the game simply for the story because I love the fact that Joel was able to redeem being a father in the first one and somewhat of it in the second game which is okay but still they should have went with his death a little different they should have actually killed Abby because without those revenge I don't know this game is just terrible and it should never get anything but a bombed review because it destroyed the legacy of The last of Us and you should never even attempt to try to pick up this game because you'll be wasting your money and wasting your time
2694) I avoided the spoilers online, and now I really, really had watched them. Worst story ever.,I would have saved money if I had watched the spoilers.
2695) everything is good except the story is sometimes it doesn't make sense.,I hate the ending,> Ellie kill many people and then decide to stop when she got Joel flashback and let Abby and lev go. Ellie lost everything. why??,,"""Edit""",> They want to make Abs & Lev is the new "US",> the plot made Ellie is the antagonist of this game.
2696) Story Like a low budget Netflix series but the gameplay is so amazing , I don't think they will make  3rd part after this game I really need to sell my copy to buy ghot of tsushima
2697) Trash,Pissed off tbh,Terrible sequel,Rather have Joel as the main character,Haram bro
2698) Waste of money. Just want to sell it asap and never look back. Worst preorder ever :cc
2699) Imagine waiting for a new god of war and then the game comes out and the game forces u to play as freya and your mission is to kill kratos and Atreus
2700) Absolutely terrible. I was a hardcore Last of Us fan and this game totally wasted my time. Full of plot holes and just a grind to play in the last hours. No payoff for the time you invest either. Game basically amounts to nothing. It feels more like a tech demo with cutscenes and only journalist mode (invisible while prone) makes it bearable to slog through the second half of the game. Honestly not good.
2701) Game suck .................................................................
2702) It feels like an addon instead of a game. Without needing to spoil anything, it's an add-on where they decide to piss everyone off by killing some folks we care about. Remember The Force Awakens where Kylo kills Han? It's pretty much exactly like that. It feels like we're playing a fan made effort and the kids have decided to break all the toys simply because they can.,,The game is gorgeous, it really is. The problem is that it's so obsessed with discussing social topics that it feels like they forgot where the beauty was in the first one. The first one had more said by doing in silence than two characters ever really interacting. The giraffes come to mind - there is a sense of wonder and peace for a moment when the giraffes are found, and then the player can optionally interact with them which will cause some dialogue. Or you just ignore the giraffes. Or maybe you make the choice to observe them at a distance. The choice is ultimately the players about if they should talk or not, but the beauty is there and presented in silence.,,Somehow, this misses the point entirely. It feels rushed, which is strange considering how much time this spent in development. There was more in the scenes which was left unsaid than was said. And that problem carries forward to all the other aspects of this game. The social aspects are pretty much rammed down our throat. There no option not to simply "look at the giraffes" and instead we're forced to look. Instead of having a tender, caring moment in the presence of something we hold as majestic, we're forced to watch as two characters bang the crap out of each other instead of make love or enjoy each others presence. Frankly, the boat scene doesn't even make much sense, while we're calling this out. We go from a fistfight to... pretty much (forced?) anal sex. What happened? Is this rape? I was confused.,,The pacing problems hold fast through the rest of the game too. The formula holds almost entirely true of walk-shoot-talk and each encounter ends up blending into the next one. This isn't great - it means the locations are too generic and I stopped caring about the characters somewhere along the way. There's a lot of "pile of stuff" shootouts which occur along the way but aside of minor theme changes, they just aren't that interesting. But we have to do them anyway because the freedom like we had in the later part of the first game doesn't exist. Don't expect to sneak out of a tense firefight, you're going to kill everyone for dubious reward.,,Finally - who are these people? I definitely feel like characters are either foils and party favors or they're "developed", but that development is oftentimes contrived or feels forced or delusional. I don't really see how the moral choices for some of these folks have gotten them from A to B. Sometimes there's leaps of logic or faith which make me suspect I've missed some random clue somewhere I was supposed to find for a big reveal, or perhaps skipped some bit of talking by accident. While I don't really hate anyone for mindlessly killing someone I'm dear to from the first game, I don't love anyone either. It just feels like those Star Wars movies everyone tries to ignore. All the stageplay is there, but the writing is just bad.
2703) DONT BUY THIS ****,there is no immersion like Tlou1,i dont know why i should play another character,its a terrible experience
2704) This is totally unnecessary, there is absolutely no reason for playing this game especially when it's mundane and not even fun. This was plain abysmal. 0 gameplay innovation, same old ps2 game mechanics, and the writing feel so dumb.
2705) this game is technically excellent! But storyline, all main characters, main heroine, scenario... it's amoral, cheap, mauvais ton, terribly and very very horribly! Shame on the screenwriters!
2706) Another 3rd sort revenge story, what could be possibly better, 2020 writing, great job Kappa
2707) I can't believe I waited 6 years for this game to end up being this bad. How do you want me to play as Abby and try to kill Ellie in the theater. You are trying to make me feel for Abby but we don't care she is the one who killed the most beloved character in the game. The end is soooooo BAD!! I want to forget about this game.
2708) I glad that it came out through PS4. It would be left as a permanent stain to PS5 if the Sony published this game as a launching title.
2709) Badly written. Joel is dumbed down, his death is too early and not satisfying, we then spend 10-15 hours playing as his murderer. Tommy also does a complete 180 at the end. Before leaving seattle he said "shes gonna have to live is that okay" he was content leaving seattle so long as ellies safe, then after a timeskip he comes to ellies house, starts insulting her and guilts her into going after abby, so she leaves her wife and son to go on a suicide mission, and doesnt even kill abby. The game ends with Ellie having lost everything, and I mean EVERYTHING and for nothing. Shes all alone now. She deserved better and so did joel
2710) This game is very bad.  This is not even a game, but rather a very mediocre film.  I was particularly offended by the need to kill dogs, without this the game could not be completed.  It's disgusting.
2711) Just sad... the story of the game has decreased really bad... for fans of the first gane it’s a joke...
2712) This game is suck i am korean why kill joel like cruel way,and ending story....,I can not understand why...,Please make game not PC
2713) Joel deserved better.,The whole game hinges on the player disliking Ellie's actions (which is achieved by making the player do bad things) and liking Abby (who is a sadistic murderer and draws actual pleasure from killing people). This does not work.
2714) While visuals and soundtracks were great story was most important thing to me about this game and it was simply lacking and boring.Abby was not likeable at all.
2715) character decisions makes no sense. plot is written by amateurs. and new jump mechanics looks not finished. its like they wanted to add smth new but had no idea what, so they just put jump button.
2716) As a writer I said game story is wrote then wrote. You can kill 200 peoples for no reason when whole world needs help . Lots of humens rate it 10 stars finally i am said lots of humans like kill eacg other . Director is clearly fan star wars rise of sky walker . Nice gameplay kill every single human is first thing in this game . I am thinking about those peoples who rate this game 10 stars for those people's please imagine yourself in erole of Ellis.  And kill every single human race maybe they people's love it . this game have 4.1 star rating clearly in i am in bullhead world.
2717) I was waiting for this game since the last one ended I thought that if the first game was this great the sequel would be better, but I was disappointed with this game so much that I don't think they can fix the series anymore, first of all the way they tricked us into thinking that jole would be a huge part of the game and then they just kill him in the first hour or two and not just that the way they killed him is so bad and humiliating , jole would never drop his guard like that in the first game jole was smart he knew how to survive and that is why he was the best character in the game.,Secondly you had the audacity to make us play as his killer abby for half the game!!!,The story was written so bad that I got so bored in the first 10 hours of the game and the characters were not relatable and boring,,And the ending is the worst ending I ever saw.,The only good thing in this game is the gameplay because it's similar to the original.
2718) Ridiculous story. Unreasonable actions from characters. Great disappointment for anyone who loves part 1. Make you feel so uncomfortable during play. Do not recommend at all.
2719) The game is trash. The writing, the characters, the story are all mediocre at best. And the plotholes are countless.
2720) The story was awful i think dircetor was depressed while making the game.btw i dont see anything new in gameplay
2721) The whole plot is just created to push the ideas of violence and popularize the L*BT.  In the first part, Ellie wanted to help all of humanity by sacrificing herself, but in this part she was made a crazy lesbian and poured mud over Joel.  The series was destroyed by hostages of ideas of immoral and not godly love.
2722) im really disappointed after playing the first chapter,i really get wondered omg do u remember...?!that amazing story..but this..one really broke my heart,i waited too long for it and now i just feel disappointment...graphics..are amazing physics is amazing too but story..is sounds **** what did i really wanted was a good story..,if you didnt play the first chapter or you just care about graphics and gameplay ok then go and buy it..but if you want to remember the good memories of the chapter one just save your money and don't hurt yourself....,..
2723) No.. Just no. The story is poorly executed and I wonder why 24k people like it lmao.
2724) This game has bad physics, bad graphics, and bad history, also it's not fun... It's boring at the start, the AI is stupid... Garbage. I can't believe what they did... It's like destroying your legacy on purpose.
2725) Joel deserved better than what they did to him. Joel was tlou. Ellie was a side character. But Abby? Abby should not be playable....or even exist. No one cares about Abby.
2726) Worst story I’ve ever seen in my life!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
2727) Okay game mechanics if you played the first game you’ll feel no noticeable changes. Also the story is hit or miss personal i did not find it entertaining or intriguing.
2728) Horrible plot, dumb game mechanics. I just want to forget about this game. It is further insult to injury that Naughty Dog used false advertising to sell the game to fans of the first.,,This game ***ing  sjw trash
2729) LGBT scenes were unnecessary The game is boring and I am lazy to play it. It looks in high definition but meh
2730) Well, i played the game knowing what was going to happend because of the spoilers, but in the end It was way worst then i expected. I really felt miserable playing this game.,At times i would put the controller away and think, "hell i dont wanna play this crap anymore".
2731) Don't play. It's a **** Extremely over rated game and high paid game for professional reviewers.
2732) The graphics are really good, but the story is disappointing, the waiting was ruined.
2733) …This games is not a game...it makes only political statements re identity politics and demonstrates gender perversions. Save your money...while playing Abby, or Albert, I wanted to sell my PS4 PRO ASAP. Because, if this is the future of gaming I want nothing to do with SONY, and refuse to expose my family to this trash…
2734) This game is what happens when you sacrifice character development and story for inclusivity, agenda and pandering. This is legit the worst game I have ever played and I have no idea how anyone thought that this story was either honoring the characters from the first or something worth telling. Please stop using what a character identifies as for the single quality that that character has. Hire better writers and not people who just want an ideology jammed down throats. Gamers do not want this. No one other than woke-folks want this.
2735) An absolute disgrace. The charismatic cherub faced Ellie from the first game has been replaced by a lanky depressed arts student wannabe bikie in the sequel. In a few short years Joel has somehow completely lost all of his libido and become a naive trusting moron. Bye Bye Naughty Dog. Abby smash. Also notice how triple A game companies are deliberately making the men and women in their games completely plain and downright unattractive. They don't want us having fun anymore. Also this site wouldn't let me post a negative review so I posted this as a PERFECT 10. Lolllllll.
2736) The story is distasteful, disappointing, forced, it lacked everything that made the first part great. They made Joel look like a naive idiot.
2737) Do not play terrible game. Trolling director pushing agenda. Don’t support poor game
2738) I was really excited and looking forward to playing this game. Unfortunately, the entire Naughty Dog team wasted 7 years to not only disappoint but flush the entire franchise down the toilet. The first game was a masterpiece but what does that matter if this is going to be the last memory of it. They’ve pulled a Game of Thrones final season on this game and everyone should be ashamed of themselves. It is only visually pleasing and the mechanics are cool at times but that’s not what makes a game. Proper writing and character development is what makes a game. Save your money y’all. 0/10.
2739) Awesome graphics, gameplay, and details but the story is a compete garbage. DO NOT BUY this, spend your money on Ghost of Tsushima instead
2740) it is unfortunate that the game has rolled into such a thing. too tight. well, for killing Joel you deserve 0.
2741) THIS IS DISASTER. So Boring. Plot is travesty. Nd this is a game not movue you dont kill Master chef in halo 2 You dont kill Kratos in Gow 2. My recomendation Dont buy it. Save 60$ You welcome
2742) I've waited so long to play this game only to get disappointed by its horrible plot and narrative. I'd rather play farming simulator than this garbage.
2743) SJW BS. Ruined this franchise. Save your money. I have never seen a story line so entangled with leftist crap in my life. You literally kill the father figure and release the game on fathers day. Pure trash.
2744) Spoilers...,Why do I have to use Joel's killer in the final stretch of the game? Can't they see that I'm angry with her, and besides they force me to defeat ellie, when I want to use ellie to defeat Abby. And what a more anticlimactic ending without reaching any resolution
2745) Very mediocre and plain. This is the perfect example of how to kill an amazing franchise just to satisfy some minority egos and fill a heavy politically correct agenda. It's gross and a slap in the face of fans and newcomers. Plotholes everywhere and broken horseback riding system that glitches everytime. It also oveheats the PS4 console to the limit even tho the graphics are obviously downgraded compared to early trailers running on PCs. Dissappointment and frustration is what defines this game. Not worth the waiting. RIP Naugthy Dog.
2746) Story is 0.If I could give a minus I would.This is not a ''brave'' story.Just bad.
2747) Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash, Trash,
2748) What can I say?,This makes me miss the first last of us so much. The shill media gave this game 10/10 and that’s insane. Sony money and “progressive” political agendas are working overtime with this title! This game is absolutely terrible for the following reasons. Joel was killed early and in a nonsensical fashion. The gameplay was stale, and Naughty’s character development was God awful. I’m just so happy that I used my buddies copy instead of spending my own money.
2749) They kill the whole point of it (and I'm talking of the story in general and especially the end) It isn't worth it, I literally feel disappointed and kinda sad.
2750) It's a shockingly bad game with outdated mechanisms, insanely ridiculous plot and lack of character development...A betrayal to the fans who love TLOU.
2751) the story is worst than trash, it doesn't make any sense at all, there is no goal at all in this game. i am very disappointed.
2752) I waited 7 years to play this and that "creators" killed all charismatic people from the previous game and gave us no choice to decide whether to kill or not. **** this ****
2753) They did not allow my full review so,,,Summary:,,The gameplay in overall is worse than average, you get some beautiful moments with graphics, some story moments like Ellie guitar play to Dina, Ellie and Joel together moments and the youthinkitistheendingbutit'snot moments, but sadly you'll get bored between those.,,Graphics: 9/10,Music: 7/10,Gameplay: 4/10,Price/Quality ratio: 2/10,Characters: 2/10,Story: 0/10.,,Overall: 3/10. And this is the best it deserves.,,My advice:,,Don't spend money on it, borrow it or just watch someone on Youtube/Twitch playing it. If you buy it and play it yourself, my best advice is, that when you fight Ellie, get yourself killed by her all the possible ways she can, then stop the game and sell it for someone else.
2754) I pre-ordered the game and I just finished it yesterday. BAD story! Political agenda RUINED this game. Cliche out of context ending.,Abby's character was not built in a way that will make the player understand her motivations.,Joel and Tommy seemed like less smart characters when they trusted a random group of people to be locked in a house with them in this cruel world that the first game managed to portray.
2755) SIE WTF ? Why do you make an LGBTQ agenda in your games, for what audience do you make games ? I don't want to play this **** !
2756) Story - 0/10,Graphics - 9/10,Gameplay - SAME AS 1ST GAME,Fingers - 8/10,OVERALL - 0/10
2757) really disappointed in how they treat characters from the previous game, they dont feel like the same people. new characters feel flat. and abbys character arc if you want to call it that, is very misguided and doesnt resonate the way they want it to.  they try to make you feel for her in a very short amount of time after she just killed off one of the main characters. i didnt enjoy this game at all, not only that but its also effected my view of the first. it was originally my favorite game but knowing where it leads puts a bad taste in my mouth for it. graphics are beautiful and gameplay is a polished version of the original. yipee
2758) The first game to ever delete halfway through ,nothing likeable about it.You would say it looks amazing ...well of course its 2020 its aAAA game ,gameplay gets repetitive ,game gives you absolute no options or choices you just follow the politically driven story which at 1 point is shoved down your throat when you have to play with a certain character (thats what drew the line for me ) .Game is utterly boring ,soundtrack ,characters ,story and gameplay ,there is absolutely nothing good I can say about this game .Im stunted by all those positive reviews and i reading them i I cant help but wonder if they actually spent all those long hours of boredom to play this game ?
2759) I really did not expect such a poor story! My disappointment is immeasurable. Sad moment of a game.
2760) Totally dissapointed with the game. Marketing around this tittle is a big big lie, the history and his characters are so so bad, this is a slap in the face to all fans of the series.
2761) Worst game i ever play. It just gay porno snaff film. Nil Drackman **** characters and game. Now, never buy game from naughty dog then he in charge.
2762) The game is bad in terms of plot, compared to the first part is not worth the money. Disappointed.
2763) Unpolished, unfinished and I felt like getting scammed after buying it. Give me back my money.
2764) Thank you for spitting on one of the most beloved characters in video games. So not cool naughty dog
2765) worst game ever, I will ever trust Naughty Dog again. Tried to re-turn the game and was refused, so I then took my copy smashed the disk and then burned it.
2766) A lot of people -like me- would not buy the game of you include progressist propaganda
2767) Seriously, NaughtyDog? What happened to you guys? This game got me depressed. Take notes from Rockstar on how to kill a main character and make it heartfelt. The graphics and sound design are breathtaking but what good are they, if you can't bring the one thing that binds them together- story, out properly. Such a shame.
2768) If The Last Jedi was a videogame, it will be this crap. That ending missed me so bad, how can you kill a dozens of people and then came and forgive the tomboy that killed your dad. Pathetic is a compliment for this ****
2769) Forced the player into a disliked character, and gave me the role for more than half of the game time, and the preview also gave me fraud. Sony Congratulations, you have a traitor. Microsoft said it is super cool.Thank you naughty dog for feeding us a poop.
2770) We all waited 7 years for this. Just think about that for a second. Never again will I ever have high hopes for any video game based on trailers and opinions. I told all my friends who never heard of tlou that they should play the first one before this one came out because the first one was quite literally the best single player game I have ever played. After playing this game though I regret standing up for this franchise. I'm going to pretend this game never happened and the franchise ends with Ellie and Joel in the car.
2771) great disappointment,  insult to previous game. insult to players who love TLOU
2772) Stupid plot, disregard for fans, The developer’s complete misunderstanding of what players need! Well, Sony, has a big question - HOW CAN IT BE RELEASED ???
2773) Horrible games not cool enough that you play as non original characters not cool
2774) The Last of Us Part 2 is by far the worst game of 2020. Bad writing, nonsensical plat, garbage characters... Sony should've cancelled the game.
2775) Totally non sense of killing Joel, and too much politically corrects, why have to illustrate Homosexuality that much
2776) Story: Terrible as far as logic is concerned. Naughty Dog failed to make the players care for new characters. Neil Druckmann insisted that after playing through the game people will understand their approach, but it only creates more questions and plot holes.,,Gameplay: Same as the previous game, only no multiplayer. There are few new mechanics that are neat but overall it plays the same. However, much less puzzle solving, and more side quests with no impact to the main game whatsoever, rewards you with bits of resources which you'd care only if you're playing in the toughest difficulties.,,Graphics: Up to par with everyone's expectations for games releasing this late in gen 8, most of the major areas are pleasantly detailed but you can still see issues with draw distance and texture pop up from time to time, quite immersion breaking.,,Sound: Good ambient sound effects bundled with somber background music, there's no joyous tunes as the dev's already mentioned before release that the game takes on a much darker tone than the previous one. Still it feels they went way overboard in that direction.,,I would not recommend this game even if it's in a $9.99 bargain bin. If you got the game for free you must burn it immediately and question the intention of the person who gave it to you.,,You should buy the game if you...,1. Never played the first game.,2. Have played through the entire PS4 library of games and is itching for more.,3. Want to give it to your worst enemy.,4. Are not going to play it but just want to support Naughty Dog for whatever reason.,5. Enjoys a good emotional abuse.
2777) The part one was better, I just see great graphics only, Where are a great history of the last of us?
2778) The Last Of Us Part. 2 can be classified as one of the biggest disasters in narratives of a game of this generation, because what was seen in the campaign was a construction of a revenge that not even, teen Disney films can be as bad as and the saddest this is how Neil Druckmann treated one of the most iconic characters in the game, Joel, who literally prostitutes himself for a coffee, YES, YOU DID NOT READ WRONG, A COFFEE. The guy who saves Ellie's skin several times in the first game, which is no longer everything the media says, is treated like a totally disposable character, an irrelevant NPC.,,As for the gameplay, little changes in relation to the first game, with the addition of the dodge, but the movement is totally outdated for what we see today, perhaps the only positive point is the graphic look of the game which is beautiful and the soundtrack that it's acceptable, but nothing flawless, but it ends there. The technical part is totally flawed, with several bugs that can hinder gameplay, having to restart to the control point for the game to return to normal and I do not understand how the so-called "specialized media" in part of the world is not judicious with games from Naughty Dog, giving the impression of a perfect game before user reviews, totally encouraging the purchase of the game.,,But the worst of it all is the story, that in addition to disrespecting Joel, the plot is based on a persecution of the antagonist of the game (Abby) that you play with her and try to humanize her, it is as if they tried to humanize the Joker in a the Batman game, and Abby who is more masculine than the male characters in the game, the LGBT relationship between Ellie and Dina is the least important, because in the Left Behind DLC her sexual orientation has already been shown, which is positive in the case of a created character (different from the militancy that tries to push classic characters to please a noisy minority), the ending then is disastrous, because in addition to the bad story built on the concept of revenge, the main character throws everything out of the effort made during the campaign.,,Congratulations Neil Duckmann, you destroyed a good game by cheap ideological leafleting, you may have liked the militancy that exists within the media, but not those who like the game that is the majority as shown by the users' ratings.,,And a message to gamer journalists, you’re not fooling anyone else. TLOU Part. 2 goes a long way from being a perfect game, as there are flaws that any game has, but the impression they tried to make is a perfect game, a masterpiece, which is not really the case and this should be exposed for those who want to buy the game.,,The notes are lowered from USERS WHO PLAYED THE GAME, which contrasts what journalists tried to pass on to consumers with a falsely perfect game.,,And to users who play FACT, value their money in this difficult time that we live in, which is the pandemic of COVID-19, wait for Ghost Of Tshushima that seems to have potential, Cyperpunk 2077 and even the Remake of the first Mafia. Steam user reviews are more true than that of people who pass through a university, graduate, to lie to consumers.,,And to think that if Amy Hennig still had Naughty Dog, Uncharted and and The Last Of Us would have well-constructed stories for those who don't know, Hennig had a hand in TLOU, but the atmosphere was so heavy inside the studio that thanks to Anita Sarkeesian, who Hennig was forced to ask to leave and was not credited for the work. In fact, I don't even know if he had credit for certain, Druckman usurped her work, just as he had already done with Uncharted.,,Amy Hennig is only responsible for building the Uncharted universe and even with all the recognition, Druckmann wanted changes to his style and his style is there, making a game with a narrative worse than teen films.,,Journalist who chooses what news to give IS NOT JOURNALIST, IS ADVERTISER.
2779) This game is worse than anything you can imagine. Naughty dog should be ashamed of themself and disband studio.
2780) ive basically bought ps4 so i could play tlou and was the biggest fan ever, seeing how they ruined it is soul-crushing.
2781) Such a pathetic attempt at a game honestly just crushed the whole franchise which could've been an all time great.
2782) False advertising. Terrible treatment of returning characters.  Awful writing and storytelling. Ridiculous new protagonist that you are forced to play as after defiling the old protagonist. Shameful sequel to a loved first part.
2783) Sony's GK will ruin our games, they can give Zedal 0 point, they can give halo 0 point, and they can give TLOU2 10 point. If you click into those account who give TLOU2 10 point, you will find that they only have 1 reivew. I'm here to against them, to protect our games.
2784) Worst game ever! Not only did the character I love the most die in the beginning, the damn game makes you play his killer. The person I wanted dead the most is the character we have to play and nothing is resolved in the end. None of the remaining characters are likeable and the story sucks. I wasted my money on this game and I didn't even want to play it halfway through.  The first game was wonderful, but they lost it with this one.  I expected better than this.
2785) This game disappointed me so bad. I waited so long for this and I feel mugged... Raped even.. it's bad
2786) Normally i do not write reviews as english is my second language. However this is the time I need to write express my anger.,There is no information on Abby. Abby kill Joel and we need to control Abby at all. Crazy.,In addition, why against this game is again lgbt etc. I do not understand. I cannot see these characters are happy at all.,I did not enjoy the game and the post adveristment shows Joel and Ellie to celebrate father day. Which is totally disgusting.
2787) As everyone should know, this game has a horrible history, where the writers treat in the most disgusting way their own principal characters. And the end is just simply bad dude.
2788) A mediocre story. The characters are too bleak and poorly developed. The Last of Us: Part II is an undoubtedly story-based game. So my review will be focused almost entirely on the story. The gameplay is incredibly similar to the first with added movement options and different enemy types. Instead of following in the steps of its predecessor, the sequel throws away much of its character-development, atmosphere, and world-building for the sake of adding a playable antagonist. Despite early news promising the development of Ellie and Joel's bond, the latter is killed in the prologue of the game by said antagonist. Instead of naturally becoming a revenge story, the writers try their hardest to make the player emphasize with Abby - something incredibly difficult to accomplish if the player developed a connection to the protagonists from the first game. Characters close to Ellie die or abandon her unceremoniously throughout the course of the game in scenes that seem more reliant on shock value than good writing. Those who die are always taken out by Abby, and you'll occasionally play as her for these scenes. At the ending, Ellie saves Abby's life before challenging her to one last fight. Despite having two of her fingers bitten off in the struggle, Ellie gets the upper hand and is all set to drown the woman who has taken everything from her. With a brief vision of Joel flashing through her mind, she makes a disappointing decision to let go of Abby and allow her to get away. At the end of the day, Ellie is left with nothing. The player has gained nothing. The central issue that pervades the entire story is characters acting unlike themselves. Tommy and Joel give their names and home location to an armed group they just met. Jesse, who has been shown to have a level head, rushed through a closed door into a room that could have had any amount of hostiles. He was, of course, immediately shot in the head and killed. Ellie murdered possibly hundreds in her quest to kill Abby, and not only untied her, but she also challenged her to some strange form of honorable combat before letting Abby go free. It is not good writing. It's characters acting completely unpredictable just for something terrible to happen. It's like they can't create shock value without making someone act like an idiot. Lastly, there is no joy in The Last of Us: Part II. Not if you came into it with the previous characters in your heart. Every beloved character is dragged through the dirt constantly with no moments of reprieve. It's one miserable scene after the other. The only "uplifting" moments tend to happen when the player is controlling Abby. At the end of the day, there is no satisfaction for the player. None for Ellie. None for Joel, Tommy, Jesse, or Dina. You don't get your adventure with Ellie and Joel. You don't get your revenge. You don't get a glimpse of the hope for a better future that was present in the first game. It's devoid of hope. The only thing you get at the end of the day is a message that revenge is bad, but it falls flat once you realize that the only person who got their vengeance is the one that came out on top.
2789) Loved the first one, the characters, the story. Part two forgets everything what made the first one a special. Hoping to get The dark knight but we got Batman and Robin instead.
2790) Dog **** literal dog **** A narrative tive driven game that lacked all narrative and character development. No matter what you do ND how much you polish the graphics you will not make me like Joels killer. The best part of the game for me was forcing Abby to commit multiple suicides.
2791) Its all about politics, they ruined the game if you loved the first game do not buy this one. Its trash pure trash.
2792) Story was pure trash... totally disrespectful towards the first game and the characters. If you liked the first game stay away from this one
2793) Garbage agenda plugged into a mediocre story. Switched from Xbox to PS4 because of how incredible the first game was. But Naughty Dog has shown they are more into appearing "woke" then making a decent game. Damn shame! Back to Xbox for me.
2794) Unreal. Just unreal. They botched the only game I was looking forward to. Absolutely abysmal.
2795) The story telling is just a mess and I am forcing to play this Abby for like half of the game. I just don’t get it. Revenge bad is just the plot used like a million times already and they don’t even do it right.
2796) Pros:,- gameplay,- graphics,- atmosphere,- sound,,Not going to lie, the ending of this game. It just doesn't make any sense. None at all, Imagine seeing your only "family" being killed in front of your eyes, seeing who did it, and then not being able to game end that very character because muh art muh progressive massages. **** you
2797) Naughty Dog sells us a false bill of goods in teasing and taunting and mocking us with the lie that Elie will be able to complete her tale of revenge. This isn't about anyone's sexuality; the story is utter ****  Just as the final confrontation arrives, Naughty Dog pulls an M. Night Shyamalan twist and decides that no, we will not have the satisfaction that the character, the player and the story deserves. I will not be purchasing another Naughty Dog product. I want my money back.
2798) If you like your favourite characters being offed to make edgy statements about political correctness and equality then this is the game for you! If you like eating up whatever Sony serves you and regurgitating your review proclaiming 'GaMe Of ThE yEAr' then this is the title you've been waiting for! It's barely even game of the week worthy, those saying game of the decade are a disgrace to gaming journalism. A solid 0/10 for this laughable bargain bin game.
2799) I'm a huge fan of The last of us and to say this game is a disappointment is an understatement, Neil Druckmann should be ashamed about lying to the thousands of fans by adding Joel in the trailers only to find you get zero proper gameplay with him as he dies in the first 2 hours. Joel is a character that trusts no one except those who he holds extremely close such as Ellie and Tommy. We know from the first game that Joel and Tommy crossed many different people in there first twenty years following the outbreak but yet Joel and Tommy walk straight into this group of people like idiots resulting in Joels death. The thing that made the first game so amazing was the relationship between Joel and Ellie and the directors just throw it away. There is zero character development of Ellie in this game if anything her character becomes less interesting and unlikeable. One of the major issue is that you are forced to play as Abby the woman who kills Joel , for approximately half of the game. This is done in an attempt to make you feel sympathy for this character but it simply does not work. Playing as Abby is horrendously unenjoyable and as well as this you already know where the character ends up as you have played Ellies version of the same 3 day period meaning that even if you were to care about Abby at all you know nothing can happen to her. In my opinion Abby is given the better weapons in an attempt to make her playthrough more enjoyable but all this does is take away from Ellies half of the game. I enjoyed some of the new characters such as Jesse, Dina , Lev and Yara but once again Druckmann chooses to kill off some of these main characters as if its nothing. For example Jesse is killed stopping him from building up any traction as a truly memorable character. Aside from the story my game was riddled with bugs i.e characters walking through brick walls, falling through the map and glitchy cutscenes. This game is a disservice to the fans who have been waiting seven years to see Joel and Ellie in action again and Neil Druckmann needs to apologise to the fans for destroying this long awaited sequel.
2800) i am not a sex1st, but why Naughty Homeless Dog are an sex1sts. why naughty homeless dog puts men in a bad light, why in this game, all women are stronger than men, when in reality everything is the other way around. I hate feminists because Anita is a feminist, she is a good game destroyer.,game: very poor story after all these years of waiting.,this game not worth your time.,girls in this game is like some planks.,Anita is a st***d b***h.
2801) This is the most disappointing game that I played in my entire life. NaughtyDog stop kissing SJW's ass!!!
2802) Never... NEVER use the videogames as a political weapon... The worst error of NaughtyDog
2803) just garbage with lesbians and bad story, I'm dissapointed with this what a shame
2804) Terrible story IT WASN'T WHAT I WAS EXPECTING AND Don't force me to play lgbtq gay content
2805) Stop games to push political agendas. You turned an amazing game to a **** one. Congratz Neil
2806) Honestly they shouldn’t have made a sequel if they were going to come up with this garbage
2807) A clichéd dogma seems to have manifested - that if you do not like or appreciate this game's storytelling, you're too ignorant to comprehend its symbolism or complexity. Couple this with the prevalent bigoted comments, there seems to be little focus on rational criticisms aside from a quick acknowledgement that a few exist. Instead, the more exhaustive discussions often seem to digress into this belief that the majority of scrutiny has an ulterior, alt-right motive (beknownst to the reviewer or not). While it is important to talk about considering it could very well be true, the toxic and polarizing result leaves little room left for those valid critiques.,,And I (among several others I've spotted) thought there were huge problems with the game that aren't nested in anti-progressive attitudes...,,On the vaccine - my interpretation (and it could be wrong) of the first game was that this was nothing more than fleeting hope amongst an incredibly desperate rag-tag group of abused and abusive individuals. There was little, if any, inductive evidence provided to suggest that one could actually be derived from Ellie, aside from minor lip-service. There was no invitro-testing, data analysis, or even procurement of proper scientific equipment to produce one, presented/mentioned in the storyline. Then there's the manufacturing, development, adverse-event monitoring, and proper coordination of conveying this information to other researchers/physicians (and how many of those are left?) across the continent in order to vaccinate everyone, assuming there would be no other unforeseen phenomenon, catastrophes, wars over the drug, etc… All in all, the science was left to your imagination, which is fine, but my imagination never really lead me to believe that, in this universe as presented, it was viable. So I understood (though didn't necessarily agree) with Joel's motivations in the first game, and why I felt that his lie to Ellie was so moving at the end.,,I'm unsure if the story of LOUII was already planned during the development of the first. If so, I think the first one should've been handled differently. If not, then I'm not clear as to why so much weight was given to the effectiveness of the vaccine, as it was never construed to be. This trivializes the ethical justification for Abby - as I do not truly believe she was utilitarian, nor her father. Thus, it's hard to agree an "eye for an eye" was ever properly indicated, which I think was the intent of this revenge plot.,,So I didn't really like the story for that main reason. The gameplay was also a bit boring -- it just felt dated, and perhaps there were just too many interactive cinematic parts. I strongly disliked the soundtrack... I didn't find any of the (very few) tracks moving, aside from a few pieces, and most of the game you trudge through silence. Though the actual sound effects were solid, as was the voice acting.,,Graphics, on the other hand, were brilliant. It's a shame I can't get as much FPS as I'd like from a PS4, but nonetheless, they were absolutely phenomenal!,,Overall - I'd give this game a 3/10. The main value resulting from the artistic portrayal of the environments. It wasn't really fun to play, the story was a bit too long, and the motif of revenge has been done better before. At $60... that's asking too much for the quality that it is...
2808) my best golf game forever thanks you Naughty Dog good by joel Naughty Dog make game of the year
2809) Kills Joel at the start of the game and Ellie doesn’t have its revenge and it forces us to sympathise with the villain, forcing us to play with she
2810) If you asked me to rate this game in the middle of the story, I would have told you it was a masterpiece. Sure there were parts of the story that I didn’t expect (Joel dying) and things I didn’t like, such as the path the writers had taken Ellie’s character; but the story had evolved from the original game and not simply provided more of the same, which I see as critical for successful sequels.,,The character of Abby provides a light into the different perspectives of the characters in the story (no one is the villain of their own story). Half way through the game I had flipped to team Abby, despite the connection between Joel and Ellie in the original game, I no longer cared as Ellie was no longer the sweet and curious girl she once was and I felt Abby was justified due to the pain she felt from the murder of her father. Ellie on the other hand was now mean, selfish and unworthy of the caring I and many others once had for her character.,,The ending set in Santa Barbara didn’t even appear to identify as being the same game as the one set in Seattle and didn’t add anything to the game. A grand ending in Seattle would have been a much more rewarding ending. In reality, By the end, I am not on anyone’s side; I am no longer team Ellie or team Abby, I now hate these characters and no longer feel that there is a glimmer of hope in the TLOU world. I now truly feel the despair and hate that envelops this post-apocalyptic world. I think that naughty dog set out to leave the player with a feeling of hate at the end, so well done to them for ruining what was once a story of love.
2811) I'm saddened that I'm so disappointed in this game. This has one of the worst stories in a video game and one of the worst endings. The visuals and soundtrack are the only good thing about this game.
2812) boring, wasted.....................................................................................................................
2813) The game is **** i wait 5 years for nothing the story is horrible iwast my 60$ for nothing ****
2814) Well made but the story is garbage.,There parts in the game that is hard to play because of the ****
2815) Absolut garbage. This made 50 shades of fray a master piece. No respect about the lore because "Revenge is bad, kills the soul and poison it
2816) Terrible,Horrible,Webzine should tell the truth!!,Don’t manipulate the score!!
2817) The inconsistency of Joel’s death. He drove over a guy pretending to be hurt. Ellie was kidnapped by cannibals. He wouldn’t just trust some random people. Also if the theme is revenge is bad, then how come it all works out for Abby, but Ellie who elects not to enact revenge loses everything. You’re forced to play as a character you dislike. They try to force you to like her, but it fails. And there is no payoff. A giant tease to avenge Joel, or get some closure and Ellie can’t even play the guitar anymore. It is a horrible story
2818) Honestly, one of the most disappointing games of this year. I was genuinely hyped for this game and all I got was a below average story with shiny new graphics and the same exact gameplay with some minor changes. Overall a easy pass would not recommend.
2819) What a horrible sequel to such a great original story. Despite the fact that most of critics' reviews were bought, the game for what it deserves
2820) Plot is awful. It doesn’t seem to be a sequel to the masterpiece that was the first game. The first game was an epic story and expanded to the “left behind” DLC. It left us wanting more. After 6/7 years, I’m utterly dissatisfied and wish that they didn’t attempt to make a sequel
2821) From the moment this game starts it doesn't feel right. It's like when a movie franchise changes directors and everything feels a little off. Except this game has the same director as the first game, but is absolutely horrific. I don't care how good the graphics are or that the gameplay is decent (not anything super special). The pure disrespect of the characters and franchise as a whole, and the blatant lying and manipulating from the developers makes this game deserve a 0/10. Anyone who knows even the smallest bit about screenwriting knows that this is not the way to do it. Beginning through end a complete disaster. I don't understand what went through the minds of everyone who worked on this game, and how no one was able to see how awful of an idea this was. This game made me dislike Ellie, and makes me wish she was actually sacrificed at the end of the first game. Joel deserved so much better. This franchise went from perhaps the best game of all time to perhaps the worst game of all time. Thank you for completely ruining this franchise for all the fans. There should have never been a sequel; it should have ended at the first game.
2822) Just wanted to see if this worked because a lot of people are saying they can't post a negative report about this game
2823) Where to begin first I'm not sure if the direction of this game's story was actually going to makes any sense with the already established story. What the hell were they thinking killing Joel in the first half the game what a waste and then to add insult to injury you have to play as Abby then at the end Ellie loses fingers and doesn't kill Abby wtf! **** this game!
2824) Terrible game. Story is contrived and shallow. All the sjw bs is annoying af. I’m severely disappointed with it
2825) After I finished this game. I am full of disappointment, like wtf is this? Why did I payed money to play this **** This game is full of nonsense. I don't understand why so many people are defending it. People finds harder to say they are wrong than pretending like an idiot. What a disappointment after waiting for this game for 7 years.
2826) No multiplayer gg The characters are turned 180 degrees and pretty much unnoticeable. Post apocalyptic doesn't mean anything in this game.
2827) how did u **** this up so badly Jesus. It has to have been done on purpose.
2828) The game is thought provoking if you can get pass Joel's death. But I  will give it a zero score.
2829) Just sucks. The story telling is horrible. They kill the main character and force SJW agenda down your throat.
2830) Nothing expected at the first installment, the only thing is the graphics and the soundtrack, the rest of the important elements in the game are not there, there is not a good time of gameplay and the story was totally ruined (and if I already played the game)
2831) As a sequel to a game with one of the best story lines in video games, The Last of Us II is a huge let down
2832) Why won't this rating save? Why won't this rating save? Why won't this rating save?
2833) Revenge bad the game. Except I actually want to kill Abby, so you failed in your goal. Just absolutely bad.
2834) The Last of Us Part II tried to be so ambitious that it lost what made it unique in the first place
2835) If this is how you would prefer your sequels then by all means by the game and give your support.
2836) We need the right to choose!,We need the right to choose!!,We need the right to choose!!!
2837) The story is suck. Unnecessary sexual scenes. Racial discrimination.,Please don’t use the last of us brand name to cheat consumers.
2838) Disappointing story, despite the forced political correctness characters the story is just awful, it have no sense at all and its painful to see how the well developed characters and backgrounds go to the trash with this game.
2839) Story is absolute crap. I am very disappointed, one of my favorite games ruined by terrible writing and carelessness. Obviously built to fit an agenda and to be inclusive which ruins everything if you are throwing it in peoples faces like this game has. garbage. The first games story was touching, moving and made you care about its characters. This one makes you hate everyone excpet for a few. What was naughty dog thinking? Who knows. rest in piece last of us.
2840) How could you do this to such a great story. You are the worst kind of people and I will hate you for this till the day I die.
2841) Bad ending, how can ellie go on a killing spree only to find Abby so at the end she lets her go like nothing happen man,
2842) I’ve never reviewed a game on meta critic before but I feel like I have to write one for this game. Myself and many others feel completely lied to. The trailers built the game up to be something it was not. Ellie’s “quest for revenge,” for Joel takes a backseat to dumb drama with other characters I could care less about. Where the first game was one of the most well written stories in triple A gaming, the second one seems to be written by toddlers trying to push agendas. My only question for naughty dog would be “Who is this game for,” because it’s obviously not for fans of the original. I don’t know if I should even sell the game. It would just feel wrong putting this game in the hands of someone else, knowing what awaits them in this 25-40 hour train wreck.
2843) I've tried 5 times to leave a review. seems like met critic is being paid to avoid bad reviews now. did give it a 1 now that's dropped to 0. Fed up with this political ****
2844) I expected the next gen in the past gen, graphics are good, but the story is really really bad, I'm disappointed
2845) story floped at the end all i can say is it has a good graphics and controla are smooth but is it worth buying? no why?,ask that to your self once you done playing this game
2846) This game is disgusting! Using politics as a selling point is a cheap and a disgusting way to advertise a game. Naughtydog should be ashamed of themselves for attacking their fans. The only good thing about the game is the graphics. This game is absolute trash! Would not recommend to anyone.
2847) This game is not what I expected. False advertisement and empty promises. You are forced to play as a murderer who happens to kill off one of the most beloved character in the game. Distasteful, dishonest and overall horrible game. Got my full refund back from game store.
2848) I really did not expect such a poor story after all these years of waiting. While there were a few genuinely good moments, majority of game filled up with plot holes. It just took elements of what worked for the first game without understanding what made them compelling.
2849) Never buy  Naughty Dog's game again.,Don't try to teach me a lesson.,**** game.,Good bye  Naughty Dog'
2850) **** ntd. really hate this episode. this game is really **** most lovely character is gone with dirty way by **** ntd.
2851) This is a political statement, not a video game. Play the first one by all means, it's still a great game, but this you should keep away from
2852) I made an account specifically for this review. I can't believe the absolute mess of story telling that this game was. We've waited almost 4 years for a follow up to a game that's close to many of our hearts. The story telling is more interested in pushing a political agenda than being anything like the original which was extremely disappointing. I will be referring to the main female antagonist's name as "A" pr else my review many not be published. I will also state that she was never present in any advertising which attributes to some of the hate we as fans feel towards her.,,Joel's death to "A" happens around 2 hours within the game. And for those thinking Joel had a heroes death, he did not. All the knowledge he had in the first game of being able to spot a trap before walking into it went completely out the window as he and Tommy strut right into "A's" base with her crew giving them their real names and the location of their camp. As a result Joel gets a shotgun blast to the knee and beaten to death by "A" with a golf club. One of the other protagonists then spits on Joel's corpse as Ellie screams in anger and Tommy lays unconscious on the floor. Naughty Dog in this scene spits in the face of any of us that were looking forward to this game. To add insult to injury, "A" is about as swoll as Kylo Ren in The Last Jedi which symbolizes the strong independent female antagonist eliminating the "evil straight white man".,Oh yes, in the end, after slaughtering all of the enemies and having "A" on death's door, you just end up letting her go because killing is wrong. I wish I was making this up, but the game doesn't give you a choice.,,Just I mentioned The Last Jedi earlier, this game is what I would consider to be the video game equivalent of such. They even have a similar beginning to their titles, ironic.,,All in all, save your money. I bought my game day of release, then sold it two days later after being disgusted, heartbroken, and in sheer disbelief.,,We deserved better Naughty Dog. Joel deserved better Naughty Dog. The Last of Us 2 deserved better Naughty Dog.
2853) There is no good part in this game. Same old gameplay, i think its really aged now. Really bad story, i mean the first series has really deep story telling and detail, but this game just no near from the first one. Well i was lucky enough to play this game without payed it. I borrowed from my friend.
2854) this game is so bad, one it has gay sex scenes forced down our throat. It also made ellie lesbian just for the hell of it. WHEN YOU MAKE MOVIES OR GAMES TO FIT AN AGENDA IT **** SUCKS!
2855) If this was not a story driven game, it would be 10/10. The graphics, fluid animation, gameplay, music was incredible and what you come to expect from a Naughty Dog game. Howwever, given that this game is emphasized on story, it is an absolute disgrace. They should have ended it on Last of Us 1 and just done a new one with totally new and unrelated characters.
2856) I was a die hard fan of the Last of Us. I stayed away from reading the leaks because I had hope.I could not contemplate how they could destroy a game with such a good story. I was wrong. I was so wrong. It is not the fact that Joel died, I accepted that at first. He should have been killed in a more personal way and the audience should have gotten to be with him the whole time. The ending completely disrespected the fans and the characters. This game does not exist to me.
2857) I waited 7 god dam years. 7 GOD DAM YEARS AND WE A **** START AND A **** ENDING!!! I wish I would forget about this game.
2858) Disappointing sequel,It's a shame to see the first game sullied by this propagandistic nightmare. Artistically bankrupt. What a waste.
2859) Waste of $60 bucks rather not spend words on it rather than disappointment.
2860) The Last of Us part 1 was a masterpiece of a game, it had clunky gameplay at times but it was a beautiful game set in an interesting and compelling world that pulled you in both violently and subtly, it was a true work of art. Unfortunately everything we loved about the first game was thrown away for cheap shocks and poor writing in the sequel. Everybody in the game is either an idiot or an unloveable a-hole leaving you almost nobody left to care about. They completely disregard how characters they've developed characters and how they act in order to force the plot to go where they wanted it to go. It feels like they wrote who they want to kill and how they want it to end and then went eh we'll figure it out at some point and then just forced the plot down a railroad to disappointment. They to be quite honest just spit in your face and the characters we've grown to love faces to tell this really cliche revenge story that has been told a hundred times and a hundred times better than it is told in this game. The game is paced rather poorly and you are bored for at least the first 2 hours if not the first half of the game entirely as it just crawls along like your grandfather driving on the freeway. It then forces you to play as a character you have no desire to play as and no interest to play as trying to humanize someone they've already made you hate. The graphics look fantastic and the voice acting is amazing but those are really the only good things about the game, the gameplay despite seven years hasn't really been innovated at all and remains the same thing we've had for years and the story is written so poorly that all the pretty graphics cant cover it up and even if the voices are great when the material is garbage you cant really get excited for it. Overall this game is sadly an insult to fans and itself and leaves you with only anger and disappointment as you wish you never played it and could take back the time stolen from you by this pointless slog through the sewer known as The Last of Us Part 2.
2861) Games should not be movies, the cutscenes are longer than the games and the direction the story takes is nonsensical.
2862) complete **** Why killed Joel  plot **** Propaganda Lgbt  I am very glad that I did not spend my money on this trash
2863) game about SJW fascism for incels. If u have your opinion then its game not for you.,dont try weast time in this game.
2864) What a shame, you've kill that game ND. I've waited so long for this... shame.
2865) Okay, so before playing this game, I played trough the first one for the first time and the difference is massive. The gameplay is ok, although a bit dated and the graphics are gorgeous but that's not what the game is about. It's about the story. And that story is just bad, poorly told and uninteresting.
2866) First, I made an account for this review. Second, I'm lived in SEA.Third, I dont give a F. about west world politics. All i care is the story of the game and F.ing SJW and some Feminist ruined this game. They're ruined the whole entertainment industry.,Everyone hoping for more joel and ellie rea
2867) Bad stoty, i do not want to play as Abby, an i will never  forgive Abby......
2868) 7 years waiting to do that .. sealing.7 years waiting to do that .. sealing.
2869) I did not like the story of the game, I do not recommend. This game is overrated
2870) **** game, have no words. But in order to describe this **** I will find a couple. Script **** characters **** Thats all folks
2871) game of **** terrible action, characters and other. give me my 40$ back. u destroy my life....,the worst game ever.. don`t waste your time,
2872) The only ps4 game that made me googled how to refund psn game. And of course theres no way to do a refund on psn game. How dare you butchered a game like this naughty dog ?
2873) Trash **** crap terrible bad repulsive garbage despicable horrendous ass yes
2874) Wanted to truly like this game. I'm a huge fan of the first game but The Last Of Us 2 has taken everything that was good about the first game and destroyed it.,The graphics, gameplay and some of the action sequences are great but the story is ridiculous and character development is non existent, Plus you have to play almost half the game as a character we don't even like or care for. After 10 hours I uninstalled the game in disgust. Worst exclusive for ps4!
2875) This game sucks - disappointment - tragedy - breaks my heart - I just want to forget about this game.
2876) Did naughty dog forget how to make games or something. My God this just feels like a giant middle finger to the fans of the first game. I read the gamestop article about how you'd be hunted by dogs and then naughty dog said if you play the game a certain way and stay in stealth you wouldn't have to kil any dogs. This wasn't true. I play it stealthily but had to kill a dog in a quick time event. I know if your reading this you probably won't give a **** about that, so I'll move on to the story. The whole cycle of revenge arc is the most stupid plot I've ever seen in a game. The fact that at the end Ellie gives up on revenge, but still loses two fingers, dina leaves her and I doubt tommy would want to take her in seeing as she still didn't kill abby. Abby, on the other hand basically got away with murder. Sure she was strung up and nearly starved but she got away didn't she? While even though her friends all died, most of them she ended up hating,and she gets to sail away and start a new life. I mean, the message of the game is that revenge is bad, but it just proves the opposite. Abby, who got her revenge at the start gets to start a new life wherever she goes. Ellie has nothing. She let go of revenge which was the right thing to, do(even though I would have killed abby) and it feels like she's being punished. Which brings me to the last scene:just before the last flashback of joel, where you play guitar for the last time, the way the guitar doesn't play properly because you can only play with two fingers feels like and insult. It feels like naughty dog were laughing when they made this scene. Honestly, I didn't get the game on the ps3, I got the remaster, but does that make me any less of a fan? Maybe, but I played bad video games before, and they were all goty compared to this piece of ****
2877) The graphics & the gameplay mechanics are the only good thing in this game ... the story is so horrible it makes you think that NPC lives matter in part I + they made the hero of part I stupid .. i mean he was the most cautious human on earth and in part II they made him easily trusting strangers with his life only to make a  stupid reason to die.... horribly... this game is so wrong and was not made to satisfy the gamers .. only to force the gamers to know that naughty dog will do anything for more sellings even if they used the dirty ways
2878) God, what a terrible disssapomtment. Why would you force players to play as the person who kills off a beloved character FOR LIKE 10 HOURS. Literally killed all desire to finish the game so instead I just watched a play through. After seeing the terrible ending im glad i didnt waste more of my life on this trash. What a joke.
2879) The Last Of Us Part 2... absolutely horrid.,The story is one of the worst things I've seen basically being a revenge story where the maincharacter doesnt even take her revenge even after killing numerous people, the AI feels like it came out of the first starcraft as a dragoon and put into a shooter game, and the workbench animation feels incredibly unnatural. These are just a few of the issues.,There are so many things wrong with this, the only decent things are the combat system and crafting system.,This should not be considered canon, this should not have even been made. Whoever made this obviously had a bad boss directing them to make this excuse of a story, also feels extremely rushed in many aspects of the game, no way this was decided on by the actual people who made the game on their own accord. I feel bad for them.
2880) Not much is needed to be said that hasn’t been already.  Great gameplay and looks terrific.  Writing is just awful, I didn’t realize it was a love story.  As well as the terrible assumption that the fans wanted this.  I see it was never about the fans.  Guess the lying worked in your favor Naughty Dog.
2881) worst game i ever played. this script is terrible. i dont wanna believe that this game exist
2882) Absolute disgrace to what everyone loved about the first game, pure trash, shocking considering the first game was my all time favourite. Deeply upset.
2883) Good graphics but bad end, lack of sence, and obvious gender politics affect this game
2884) One of the most disappointing games of the year,It felt more like a movie then a game,If you can fall asleep then watch 20 minutes of this game and you’ll fall asleep fast
2885) If you are looking for the biggest disappointment ever play this ****,A second part should never exist, easy as that.
2886) Simply, the history is very bad, they would try to do something Great, but it looks like they choose the worst story.
2887) Bad characteres, boring story, never Buy this game, better wait for it in free
2888) The first game make you feeling emotions for Joel and Ellie, and in the secuel, they actually make you do some terrible things to this characters, controlling the antagonist BY YOUR OWN. Maybe In the Last of Us III  you will have to press botons in a sequences to brutal and slowly RAPE Ellie, because in the Last of Us II we learn they don't care at all about the players feelings and emotions. Causing disgust in the player FOR MANY MANY HOURS maybe is what they actualy want. If you want to feeling Disgust and Hate FOR HOURS I recomend you to play this game, and to go to the psychiatrist.
2889) Do not buy this game. Do not play this game. The Last of Us Part II makes us feel disgusting.
2890) If gave player chioce of killing abby or not would be better than now, now its a ****
2891) Forgot the essence of gaming and what it looks like when you pay for reviews knowing that they have a bad game
2892) Graphically it is a Beautiful game. Sadly the story is drawn out and overall just not as good as TLOU 1. The gameplay sadly becomes repetitive after 25+ hours
2893) Remember when you were a kid, and you had to suffer, eating ALL of your vegetables if you wanted that sweet, sweet dessert?,,This game is like enduring an entire plate of unlikeable vegetables, only to find out that the dessert is even more unappealing vegetables.,,If you adored the almost father-daughter relationship between Joel and Ellie in TLOU 1, you WON'T like this game.,,Is this supposed to be 'edgy'? Subverting our expectations? Deconstructing established, likable characters? Shock value?,,I honestly advise that if you have any depression and anxiety disorders, do not play this game. (or at least discuss it with your health professional),,The story is bleak. The gore is ubiquitous. It has unlikable characters. The story is like some sort of snuff film, filled with revenge porn and a gratuitous sex scene. And it's got plot holes, much like a golf course has holes.,,The graphics were pleasing, 8/10.,The story wasn't. -7/10,,i will never buy anything ND creates, ever again.
2894) “Hey everybody I have a great idea! Let’s kill off all the men in the game and make it so only women survive in the end!!! That’ll show all those sexist people! Ooh and let’s have a trans person and torture the hell out of them the entire game to show how mistreated they all are! God we are so woke.” Please.,The game story sucks, every new character is pointless. They have the audacity to try and justify Joel and Tommy’s murderer and make you care for her, **** that, and in the end don’t even let you have the option to kill her??? STFU with that. Game ruined. Replayed the original multiple times, will never reinstall the 2nd. Waste of $60. Don’t bother buying if you haven’t.
2895) A joke compared to the first game that everybody loved. Pacing is completly off in this game and follows the wrong character in the completly wrong order and forces you to play through a garbage character a their backstory for 40% of the entire game where no one wanted to play or were invested in any way. Dont even get me started on the ending literally the most pointless thing ever.
2896) SJW propaganda instead of story. Good graphics, solid gameplay, awfool story.
2897) Disappointing beyond words. The Last of Us can now join Star Trek, Star Wars, etc. in the graveyard of once beloved series and much anticipated sequels. What big studios are consistently revealing, whether it be with regard to movies or games, is that they ultimately do not understand what made fans come to love their series in the first place.,,Great visuals/graphics (in games) or special effects (in film) cannot compensate for competent storytelling and treatment of characters. And at various points, if you pay sufficient attention to character motivation and established traits, you will find yourself utterly baffled by the sheer amount of out-of-character behavior.,,I'll give the political dimension of the game some more detailed discussion. I'll preface by saying that I identify with a number of liberal/progressive/what some might call "social justice warrior" causes (I happen to be a minority myself). But even though I think these are good causes, that does not mean I enjoy being preached to or impelled to think a certain way. The tone of this game approaches preachiness at various points and REGARDLESS of what the message is, for people who think critically, there is NOTHING more likely to provoke an instinctive backlash than telling people how they ought to think.,,Diversity in media is a good thing, but the treatment of the characters in this game, who unarguably represent a range of diverse identities, is almost insultingly shallow and superficial. They remain largely uncharacterized and undeveloped beyond the single trait which the writers apparently think will suffice to speak for their whole person. If they were to try it all over again, I'd tell the studio to go for quality over quantity. Focus on investing your "X character" with more depth and dimensionality than "well he's the X character." Games and movies which choose not to develop their characters in these more nuanced ways may in fact harm more than help the causes they believe they are championing.,,I would probably give this game a -2 or -1 if that was possible, as I feel as though I actually lost something from my experience. Since that's not possible, a zero will have to do.
2898) This is not tlof, its is a game about sjw and lgbt propaganda 0/10. My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined...,Seriously, this game is not worthy of your attention.,RIP THE LAST OF US 2013-2020
2899) My post simple and short,Hope many people understand me,Because feel that feel me,Joel's live matter
2900) Thank you Naughty Dog and Druckmann for murdering a game with an lgtb agenda that the game didn't need, destroying the characters players appreciated and giving joel and ellie an outrageous ending.
2901) A SJW piece of marketing trash, complacing a social minority who dont buy or cosume console videogames so often.
2902) I think the screenwriter didn't play this game at all in order to write such a **** story, it's outstanding! You will lose many supporters, congratulations.,Please don't let this rubbish defile the classic game, it is not qualified.
2903) Biggest let down of all time. I can't believe I waited 7 years for that. This game is almost like glorified fan fiction. I can't believe they thought this was a good idea.
2904) Ur im ellie and i need revenge, ah sure now i can kill this mdfk who killed my dad, so i will let she alone, nice game
2905) Its a piece of sh*t wrapped in gold, the graphics and gameplay are really good but the story really ruin everything good about this game.,The failed the characters and everything the first game build, just like s8 of GOT its really impressive but it actually has no soul or loyalty to the fans or characters,  and no respect to the first game.
2906) Honestly never played a story that was so hyped up and sold upon 1 character and you had him dead in the first couple of hours, i was thinking okay no problem lets see where this goes until you made me play Abby the most ununlikeablecharacter in gaming history just to go and beat the **** out of Ellie! Like wtf are you smoking ND??,I was like okay lets see where this ends and you get this horrible ending with no justification what so ever are you **** kidding me?  dont waste your money on this ****show and save it for something else,If there was less than a zero i would give it.,Not A masterpiece,,, Complete ****show
2907) Story is terrible. Neil **** took a big shat on Last of us 1 fans. Gameplay wise, barely an improvement on 1, only notable improvement is the graphics.,,ABBY SMASH
2908) Terrible plot,bad graphics and the most annoying its LGBT propaganda.It looks really stupid
2909) Worst scenario ever by changing the whole story, it used to be the best game but the new one turned out as the worst
2910) More SJW trash to pander to fat ugly feminists that don't even play video games good job naughty dog I'm sure that your virtue signaling made this game soo much better
2911) The reason why we enjoy TLOU 1 is its beautiful story, which is totally ruined by TLOU2.
2912) Bad experience also garbage story the bright side is the gameplay was very good
2913) Worse sequel for a game ever! I can't believe I waited for this crap!! The story is garbage and the lack of respect for the main characters are disgusting!
2914) Im Disappointed !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
2915) This game manages to take its predecessor’s uniqueness and trample on it. Repetitive gameplay and clunky controls plague the game, shock value is inserted for cheap affect instead of building likable characters, and the moral ambiguities of the previous game are nowhere to be seen.
2916) Horrible story. The graphics are great. It has nothing to do with inclusion, but the story is laughable and very frustrating. I can't feel sympathy for characters despite the pointless story trying so hard to get me to feel sympathy for enemies.
2917) The game in aspects such as graphics and gameplay is good but the story is very bad, reaching the forced and unnecessary inclusion of the LGBT community
2918) Very terrible writing. There's something wrong with the industry and Hollywood where writing quality gets low priority, but visuals always get high priority. It doesn't make any sense because writing is the more important field.
2919) MC you want to be a joke together with TLOU2???    ........................................................................................
2920) why is this game so **** why do people like this why did ign give this a 10/10 holy **** why was this game made
2921) I'm a fan of part 1, I waited a long time for the game to continue, but the developer didn't give a damn! Why so mediocre merge the main character? The plot is crumpled, the end did not meet the expectation! This is a complete failure!! Terrible game!
2922) Killed the only character everyone cared about.. this games story is boring!
2923) Deception game. I dont like nothing on this game. The history is bored and the characters are bored. Graphics are amazig but this is all.
2924) Well,let's just say the critics were all bought.,-Tedious and dragged gameplay.,And the main issue,the history.,-Joel Was killed for no motive on the plot.,-The Story overral is a combination of clichés and political agenda,people caring about your sexualitie in the middle of the apocalypse doesn't make sense.
2925) Technically this game is well executed. The landscapes and sound quality is excellent, as is to be expected from a Naughty Dog game. The game loop is incredibly repetitive, I am not sure how anyone is expected to play this game more than once. While I am only some hours in I am already tired of the same old hackneyed hide, grab, and stab.,The major negatives...where to begin, I suppose the story should be first up. This game is depressing... like I would recommend people avoid it if they have any signs of depression or anxiety because it might push you into a really bad place. There is virtually no hope or joy in the world to speak of, and whatever might be considered joy is dashed by character actions.,This segues nicely into character problems. I was not as enamored by the original TLoU characters as some people were, but their motivations seemed logically consistent. Honestly what the hell is even going on with these Ellie, Joel, Abby? Joel is completely out of character in comparison to the original game. Ellie and Abby's deathmatch over the course of the game has done nothing for me either as it seems as they will never grow into fully formed characters, rather they will just perpetually be in a juvenile state of vengeance to the end of the game. It has already been spoiled for me so I know what happens, but I am not sure I can last that long even though I am trying to make a review for the game. I was hopeful that this would live up to all the hype that surrounded it, but I have just been disappointed.,As I said earlier I am not sure why anybody would give this more than a single playthrough, perhaps a completionist or someone who wanted to fiddle with the varied settings could get more out of it, I just don't see myself caring that much. There is nothing to care about in this game, it is brutal for brutality's sake, and the characters are two dimensional at best. It would be interesting to see how many of the critics who gave this a perfect score actually pick this game off their shelf to play it again now that they've reviewed it. Game of the console generation, huh, sorry TLoU2 I've already played Breath of the Wild, and you ma'am, are no Breath of the Wild,
2926) Disappointing and disgusting story. I think Neil Druckmann lost his mind (See his tweet)
2927) **** you Niel You make us watch a character get beaten to death with a golf club and then your like hey man psycho murderers who beat people to death slow have feelings too .. what is wrong with you ? Like with all the back story you gave abby I could of forgiven it if she had just shot Joel dead but she beats him to death slowly .... if someone you love was beaten to death slow would you sympathise with the murderer too? And your like hey your bad for wanting revenge and then dont even give the player the agency to choose to kill abby in the end or not. Yeah can tell nothing bad has ever happened to you before you hyper woke  dude who knows all.
2928) my god wtf have you done Naughty dog? You destroyed the unique legacy of the first part. I successfully could refund my game copy otherwise I would be even more outraged. I want to erase my memories about this game and all that propaganda which it comes with. Just why...
2929) Garbage game with cringy dialogue and forced agenda, without mentioning the miserable writing.,,the pacing is terrible, and nothing new gameplay wise compared to its prequel.
2930) I am disappointed ... The action is boring and the ending is terrible. This part sucks. There is no climate in it.
2931) Neil Druckmann is a **** Who tf wants to play a game with the worst storyline ever... I was literally a fan of naughty dog since 2017... Played all of the uncharted games, The last of us 4-5 times loved all of em but this game is trash af don't waste your money guys! A Big FU to all the story writers...
2932) A huge disappointment, the game deserves a better sequel also i refuse to believe that this is canon.
2933) Ellie saving Abby makes no sense at all and Jesse’s Death was so bad worst scenario ever.
2934) Story is horrible. Writing is horrible. Unlikable new characters. Another game ruined.
2935) Speaking of its gameplay I didn't notice any changes to differentiate it from the first game. But the story went down a lot, full of inconsistencies and all too dramatic, to the point that it seems like a bad joke from someone who is a fan of black humor. If you played part 1, don't play this game, it is the same gameplay but with a most horrible story. I have no words to describe the disappointment I feel.
2936) JOEL DESERVED BETTER F*CK YOU NEIL CO*KMANN AND YOUR B*TCH ANTI SARKEESIAN THE GAME IS PEACE OF SH*T I LOST 59.99$ FOR LESBIAN IF I WANT SEXUAL CONTENT I HAVE XNXX FOR FREE F*CK THE POINT
2937) Plot is just piece of ****, vengeance story can be a lot better. I hate this game, because I love first part
2938) I was so hyped by this. I can't believe they keep destroying master pieces just to achieve their goddamn agenda.
2939) Had to play as abby for 10 hours, was a massive waste of my time, and for anyone else who played it. dont buy.
2940) This game is a travesty. The storyline is tailored soley to push an agenda with no regard for the fans or  characters of the first game.
2941) Very unfortunate. The first was one of my favorite games, ever. Joel was a deep and flawed character, but one we all learned to love. To have him killed off, so early and in such a lazily written manner, was the first blow against this game.,Then, to make me play as the villain, whom I do not care about, and still do not, seriously wrecked the mood and love I had for th game. And Ellie doesn't even kill Abby in the end, after all the **** like wat? Hello? Is this supposed to be "character development"? Left me feeling unhappy and unsatisfied.
2942) The game has good graphics and music, but the story, the most important thing is pure cringe. I mean, it's just pure political correctness to win some SJW points.,This game should not have another sequel, they need to remake from zero the next part because this was awful.
2943) Absolutely **** butchered The Last of Us series. Neil Druckmann needs to be sacked
2944) What a waste of seven years.  At some point these AAA developers need to think about who they are making their games for.  Is it for the sweet sweet critic love, or for the actual people who play the game and enjoy escaping reality.  The saddest part of it all is they will still make a ton of money and just continue to make what they want, audience be damned.
2945) I played the first game with my family and it was a masterpiece. This game is an insult to every fan of the series. The storytelling was atrocious and this game tried to make up for its lack of storytelling with pandering. Easily one of the biggest flops in gaming history. I can't believe they let us down this bad after all the years we spent waiting.
2946) Ulimately poor writing, misleading trailer, I was not waiting 7 years for this.
2947) A game that completely betrayed fans of the first game. Developers were too busy following their sjw agenda and as a result the writing became a joke.,Joel dies in a retarded way that makes no sense with his past self.,You play half the game as a woman that that looks like a roided man. Character motivations make no sense.,Ending is terrible and makes entire game pointless.,Gameplay is decent but no one plays this for the gameplay.
2948) -10/10 for bad story but take the graphic into consideration, I will generously give it 0/10. They totally destroyed what they built up in tlou1. the misleading trailer, dmca takedown and overly positive review by media are not helping the game
2949) this game should focus in the story and fail,I don't care about other thing when the foundation column is broke the whole house will fail apart
2950) Sjw propaganda, **** story. Do not buy this game, dont support this ****. I wish I could return the game.
2951) It's totally a piece of **** You ruined a classic series in the video game history...It's totally a piece of **** You ruined a classic series in the video game history...
2952) O yes, this game is very about hate. Ellie hates Joel, Abby hates Joel, and gamers hate Druckman. How is that possible, you had 7(!) years to develop this game, it could be a **** brilliant, but no, we gonna force gamers to walk through love triangles in Santa-Barbara style, gays, lesbians, transgenders, killing main character, becauss he is white heterosexual man, **** you Druckman, **** you Naughty Dog, I'll never ever buy any game from you and I wish you fast and furious bankruptcy, and personally good luck, for you Druckman, at your new job in McDonald's.
2953) a miserable sight, as developers are trying to please minorities, regardless of the plot. just ruined an awesome story
2954) Even my 4 years old child can write better story. It is completely garbage. This game killed joel and LAST OF US LEGEND. Don't believe critic review points. Because, if you say garbage to sony's any game, that company doesn't send new game codes anymore. If i had only one chance to give zero point it would be definetaly last of us 2.
2955) The weakest story i have seen so far the last year. Just 18 Long hours of modern days politics and publicity.. Paid money to see that propaganda, hell no!
2956) sjw propaganda certainly looks very sad in the history of such a game, I hope that other developers will take this into account.
2957) People don't like it if you make characters ugly as hell and shove your progressive agenda right in their faces.
2958) After playing this game for a couple of days, really trying hard to like it I just get overwhelmed by the studios agenda to push alternative relationships and identification. Loving in LA, I'm forced to deal with it constantly, I don't want to deal with it in my video games too.
2959) Snooze fest game meant to push identity politics and a braindead leftist agenda. God awful story with boring characters and boring gameplay. Could've been a great game too bad man
2960) The story is garbage, characters are empty, and the gameplay feels a decade old. Graphics are nice. Senseless and hateful
2961) This game story is a dumpster fire, the mechanics are derivative of the first part without any innovation. The game is buggy. The visuals are good though but my overall enjoyment is null.
2962) **** game of the 20's,Thanks ND for ruining an amazing game you gave us on the past, please consider not doing a sequel, we dont want it.
2963) the only thing that get the consol alive are this exclusivity that trap the gamers and force them to buy the games at a fixed price.
2964) As a big fan of Naughty Dog (all their uncharted games and the first Last of Us) this game is extremely disappointing. What made the first game good got taken away in the first two hours and then the game forces you to play as the character that kills Joel. If that doesn’t make you have no motivation to continue the game, than the whole purpose of the game, revenge, doesn’t even happen. Ellie let’s the person who killed her father figure live. The story telling is beyond terrible and the game should not be played by anyone who enjoyed the first game.
2965) OMG.. You betrayed me. The story is so strange. Give me back my feelings....
2966) This game is the worst game in my life. Just the fact that Joel died in the beginning of the game doesn't make any sense. They could of done it at the end if it was like that and afterwards bring all that feminist bull crap. Worst story ever.
2967) The last of us 2 is a dissapointement. The gameplay is boring, the characters are unlikable. And a gay protagonist....of course there is a gay protagonist
2968) "Yes, I killed everything & everyone on my path connected to Abby, but when I finally got to her, 'revenge is bad.'"
2969) You build up a relationship between two characters. you promise that this relationship wil continue. But then Butcher one of these charaters and force us to play as the killer for half of the game. At the end Ellie doesn't get her revenge and she loses everything. While Abby get's her revenge and goes to the fireflies happyly ever after. So your message of revenge is not the anwser is not true.,,Abby takes her revenge and wins. She survives, gets a happy ending.,While Ellie, after a long journey of pain and loss, doesn't kill Abby. And she gets the bad ending where she is, what she always feared, alone.,,Lots of the characters make stupid choices that they never would make if we look at TLOU part 1. The only reason they make these stupid choices is so that the plot can happen.,,This game is really a **** You are forced to play as a char you are suppose to hate.
2970) If u liked the first game u will hate this game. Joel dies in the first hour of the game u play 50% of the game as Abby the person who killed Joel. Joel the character we all love die a slow slow and painful death from a golf club. Ellie try revenge Joel the ending is just silly. The ending is that u finally get Abby and u have the opportunity kill the person who killed Joel and not only Joel almost all people u cared and what u do u let this person go. Yes u let the person who take away everything u had everything u love and u keep only this person alive all people who helped Abby are dead but u keep Abby alive. Also Abby bit off 2 of your fingers at the end of the game so that Ellie can't even play her Guitar anymore the only thing she cared about because this guitar is from Joel so Abby take away all happiness Ellie had but Abby can live a happy life now why? Also the gameplay isn't so much better than part 1 and part 1 had a simple mediocre gameplay. So yeah I would give TLOU part 1 a 7/10 and part 2 a 0/10 because the story and characters the things what made TLOU so special are bad awfully written in part 2.
2971) Awful. Just a gender apology instead of a game. If I needed something like that I would go to a feminist march
2972) The game graphic is good But the story writting teribble,Killing the main character for som Gay character to shine. Cancel The Game Please
2973) I created an account to insult you, my old friend Naughty Dog. I've loved your game since Uncharted 2，All the way to the peak of TLOS1。Naughty dog you overlooked our players love of Joel, paranoid you think we will like you like to do you think the right thing to do, what do you think we will like you like this killed Joel's person, but we don't, even if this year's game of the year is still you, you will never gain and generation in the player's reputation as good! **** ali! Why not kill Eppie?
2974) You ruined the sequel to one of the best games I've ever played. I could relate so much to Joel and Ellie in the first one, here everything is just upside down, you play as a character you know nothing about, can't sympathize, ended killing your favorite character. But you don't get to kill her back to complete the revenge???!! Where's the satisfaction in that???!
2975) Everyone knows this is a story/drama driven game.  When your base is set out for shock value and insults the fans, ala last jedi, you get the 0/10 rating you deserve.,Play the original again.
2976) So sad with this bad story and so bad studio .. you can do something good but you don't... Ended speech .
2977) Great job on the game. /sarcasm,,What a waste. I live in Europe, got the game earlier than US.,I must say that I haven't seen any spoilers before I played. The story in 2 is so much worse. Characters are not themselves it's so weird playing this.
2978) DON'T BUY IT. Better watch a gameplay, you save a lot. The story is weak and disappointing enough. Critic reviews are fake. With money they have bought the reviews.
2979) Another great IP ruins by SJW, just stop it, making male character die won't make female character more attractive, showing me LGBT sex scenes won't make people respect your orientation
2980) I don't recommend anyone who has played the part1 to play this game, you will be grateful to me
2981) Horrible sequel,disgusting abandonment of main characters,just abhorrent all around,repugnant story telling,would give a 1 just for gameplay but that too is repetitive
2982) I play video games for the escapism and to experience good storytelling, both of which I think is missing from this game.,,So despite it having good graphics and audio, it simply doesn't cut it with me when the story feels forced and that is was designed to fit a goal or agenda instead of feeling like a natural progression from the first game.,,I have no problem with including political opinions or representation in games, just don't blatantly force-feed it too me, instead make it fit into the game naturally and make it feel part of the story's natural progression. It's especially frustrating as ND has shown they can make great stories before.
2983) To Much BS. Trying to sell trends rather than the actual plot. Joel got killed because he was a manly man, super disappointed.
2984) The graphics and sights are breathtaking. Unfortunately, it is a story based game and destroying the story destroys the game itself. Literally unplayable.
2985) This game shows how critics are unreliable, the only thing this game excels in is gameplay and graphics, the story is a disgrace to the original and its meaninglessly infused with politics
2986) Possibly worst game there could be in existence, they throw out the story and absolutely disgraced itself as a sequel to LOU 1, this is not part of the greatness we were expecting ,but more of the trash we didn't expect, 10/10 would not play again
2987) this is not a "the last of us" game .... has nothing to do with the first ! the story is bad ... so baaaad ! They killed EVERYTHING (story,characters , EVERYTHING) IN THE NAME OF POLITICS WHICH HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THIS GAME, JUST TO PROMOTE THEIR OWN AGENDA ! they destroyed a title just for that. Even the 70% of the developers LEFT the game because they didnt like what they were doing.The other 30 continued to work on something that they didnt like .Even the trailer misleads us with Joel being in scenes that he is not even in the game.  Its unreal that we were waiting 7 years  for that game ! Its unreal how the company treats us like that !! If you are fan you will no support this game so this never happens again !
2988) Probably the biggest disappointement i have ever felt about a cultural product in my life. The last Star Wars movies feel like they have been written by William Faulkner or Aristote compared to this gargabe. Even if you set aside all the agenda they try to shove down your throat it is still utter garbage.
2989) False adverting with the plot, Naughty dog completely disregarded what people liked about the first game and instead shoveled out this trash, On top of that the crunch time game dev's at Naughty dog had to experience is inhumane just to finish the game. Bad story as well.
2990) What a shame, all these critics have just literally sold out. Recommend to your foes and people you want to die from cringe.
2991) The Game have a Bad story, deads innecesaries and bad development of characters
2992) The Last of Us Part 2 tries way too hard to be a brutal piece of narrative and in doing so it separates itself from all the good values the beloved first one had, which makes it divisive and unlikable.,While gameplay has improved in some areas, it's mostly the same repetitive gunplay. Enemies remains as foolish as ever, and puzzles have been reduced to chores (that don't appear nearly as often as they used to either).,Graphics are beautiful, perhaps the prettiest I've seen on consoles yet, but It's a known fact that Naughty Dog follows a disgusting crunch work policy that needs to stop ASAP.,And although it's beautiful, said beauty does NOT save the game from its poorly written, badly paced overly convoluted story. The fact that we are forced to try and empathize with the previous protagonist's killer while watching every cherished character suffer a horrible fate makes it feel like this game's screenwriters wanted players to forcibly like Abby and dislike everyone before her. I don't see how anyone would think thought selling this crappy product was ok. I'm expecting a chance to get my money back
2993) This is totally unplayable. This is totally unplayable. This is totally unplayable. This is totally unplayable. This is totally unplayable. This is totally unplayable. This is totally unplayable. This is totally unplayable. This is totally unplayable. This is totally unplayable. This is totally unplayable. This is totally unplayable.
2994) It's not worth your money, it's a not a game anymore but a political statement, games are about having fun, If it's not fun, why bother?
2995) This game is such a faceslapper to every single person that cared about the tragic story of the last of us. This entire game is just to push some far fetched idea that 'revenge is bad' even if that revenge is fueled by the fact that a group of people just slaughtered your father infront of you.,this is just absolutely awful.
2996) My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined.,Neil Druckman personally saw to the destruction of any potential that this game had.
2997) F*ck LGBT and Feminist s*it! We do not allow LGBT people in Russia. Russians forward!
2998) Idiot game processing why Neil can do this **** 7 years. Plz fire this stupid guy
2999) They destroyed everything that was created in the first game.,It's sad to see a beloved franchise goes to waste because of Druckman's political view.
3000) It's a review Bom say the access media! No we the gamers don't trust paid reviews.we will not buy your game!I appeal to Sony to adrees Naughty dog on how they have literally spat on the best farther daughter relationship ever told and replaced with this. Something like this must not happen again to other Sony legends. The gaming community did not ask for this and I'm glad you will lose money.
3001) Good gunplay. But story is very boring. Skip cinematic. Yes. Was the best Part of playing
3002) Propaganda filled SJW nonsense with unbearably bad script. I pity myself for wasting money on this.
3003) Extreme poor writing plagues this game with very uninteresting new characters and shallow character development (both new and old characters) which is all tied together by a generic gameplay,The graphics are gorgeous, but that is the only good thing about it,Don't waste your hard earned money on this dumpster fire
3004) This is an awful game with a horrible message. The pro-political agenda is ridiculous. Terrible enemy, and terrible overall plot.
3005) the gameplay like the first go to house kill zombies take the loot then repeat.,the story: OMG it's awful awful awful I don't know what they thinking when they wrote the story.
3006) It's the worst game. How can they tell a ridiculous story?,Is it worth playing this game?,It will be the worst game of 2020!!
3007) Steaming hot garbage.  A trans gender girl (really???) kills Joel, our hero, at the 2 hour mark.  Ellie comes out as gay (smh) and the ending is a snorefest/copoit after 35 hours of play.  Do NOT buy!!!
3008) Aff good graphics,but story and gameplay bad,didn't respect the first the last of us
3009) very bad( I really did not expect such a poor story after all these years of waiting. While there were a few genuinely good moments, majority of game filled up with plot holes
3010) This scenario is the worst trash that could have ever been written for this sequel. Auto destroying itself. killing the franchise forever.,The key moments of this game are just like a spit on your face which annihilates every else that was good in the game. I wish I never played this and it never existed. Starting the second half of the game until you reach the end, you feel insulted all the way. You already know where it is going, and it is simply stupid. You will think: seriously they could not come up with anything else?,If the game just stopped right at the middle it would have been way better.,Extremely poor choices that destroyed what could have been a masterpiece but instead turned out to be a monster.,You will come out of this experience feeling insulted, disgusted and and even completely hating the last of us which is the worst thing you could do to the players and that deserves severe sanction 0/10 + the resignation of Neil Druckmann to keep him away from destroying any other beloved franchise.
3011) Joel is slowly tortured and mutilated with a golf club right in front of us almost immediately by a generic nobody who you are forced to play as for roughly half the game.,,You know, the most farcical aspect of it all, (trying to vilify Joel for the lie and guilt trip us for liking him), is that Ellie wouldn't even be alive to make a sequel if Joel hadn't saved her life at the end of TLOU. That's the level of stupidity we're dealing with here. It's like they're completely ignorant of their own work.,,And later on, they will desperately attempt to convince you what a wonderful person Abby is after murdering our beloved favorite character and she gets away with everything! Apparently because her dad was the Fireflies' surgeon you kill at the end (a random NPC you see for 2 sec that's barely a character.) she's justified somehow. How lovely.,,If you value storytelling, writing, plots, and character development, then this game is master class on how NOT to write your story.,,TLOU2 is NOT a sequel to TLOU, it's an extremely pretentious metacommentary on violence and a statement about the "cycle of the revenge." It's this silly tit for tat revenge story. Not something even worth committing to writing.,,Don't believe most of the positive reviews. They're corporate shills lying to you, saying that we're bots or whatever. PLEASE NOT BUY THIS GAME. I implore you...  or you'll be as upset, disappointed, and depressed as I was playing this. The leaks were 100% true and sadly I didn't heed them. I gave them the benefit of the doubt because of their reputation. I've been a ND fan for over a decade and this game is massive F*** Y**.
3012) Naughty dog continues to fail to understand that a video game needs to have an actual, proper game for it to be a video game, let alone a good video game. Leftists continue to fail to understand that games are not inherently political and that these kinds of "games" do not represent politics in a video game. This is politics masquerading as a video game, and, as said before, there's barely any "game" to be had here.
3013) Part 3 Preview,,The rabbit that Ellie killed.,A revenge play for the rabbit's family to kill Ellie.
3014) In General, the game is not bad. During its creation, a lot of work has been done, which is hard to miss. However, it is inappropriate to please the LGBT community in favor of gaming trends. The player's attention should not be distracted from the main gameplay by the fact that it is located in certain scenes. And causes a great aversion to the game. The game simultaneously brings an indescribable feeling of satisfaction with such a well-developed project and disgust, which is why it becomes unbearably unpleasant to play it. Because of what to collapse the entire impression of the
3015) can t treats staff like that...and get away with it...also no gameplay changes in 7 years of working...and the story is just doing the same thing again and again... you have no choice just kill everithing the game throws at you like they were machine... (the writer likes  star wars VIII so...)..technically is very good
3016) Terrible game which destroyed our 7 years waiting.... Totally disappointed...
3017) Joel was killed, I won’t play this **** anymore and set score 0...,This is a complete failure not game thats "must be played".
3018) This game is garbage, because I need more characters heres some more.......
3019) Joy die and gay **** this **** game i cant even play more of this **** game
3020) Save your money.,Don't buy this game, I don't need to explain why this game is terrible since everythig is explained in other reviews, bye joel.
3021) good game nice good,This is it! One of the best Games in 2020. Why?,- Great Story!,- Great Characters!,- Great Game Play!,- Great Design!,One of the best sequels to the game ever!
3022) Compared to the previous work, this is rubbish. But even if you don't have to compare it, you can tell it's garbage.
3023) WoW! Naughty Dog. I'm not angry I'm just disappointed. Neil I don't honestly know why you went in this direction but I really hope you'll learn from this f****** colossal mistake.
3024) Worst game, aside from the obvious pushed agenda. The storyline was forced and the voice acting was awful.
3025) awful predictable game, terrible story and a sad end to the series. Never again naughty dog, waste of money, waste of time. DO NOT BUY
3026) The history is very bad and the game is boring! I lose my money with this **** shet, I'm sorry, I'm frusted
3027) Story seems like a child wrote it, seems like a dissapointment after waiting for 7 years
3028) Really bad storyline. This game just sucks. I hope this game is going to be recognized as the worst game made by a big company like naughty dog.
3029) This is a game. The game is meant to be bought and played. When you create a game, you expect players to have some kind of agenda towards the game, some motivation for them to play. When you motivate players to start playing the game, because they hate it and want revenge for the character they love – that is a failure from the start. Players won’t appreciate even the most polished game, when they hate the motivation to play it.,,As a player, I have to care about the game to play it, now I don’t. The point of the whole thing is to be excited to play the game. To be exited of gameplay complementing the story. To be exited to go all the way through along with your character to see how it ends. I’m not exited already. And I won’t be, knowing that the ending goal is to meet someone who killed the character I liked. I don’t even want to continue the story now. No excitement at all. I just feel miserable.,,I hate Abby and I don’t care about her actions being justified towards Joel. This was never black and white matter. This was always about picking sides. And I pick the side of characters I like. I hate that game forces me to try sympathize with Abby and even force me to play her. The game is done for me the same moment I had to start playing Abby. I will refund this garbage.
3030) The worst deception of all times. I regret having spent so much money of it and won't repeat the same error twice.
3031) Everything wrong in all of entertainment can be played in this one game. Awful
3032) sjw written all over it. Horrible game dont play it and save yourself. naughty dog shame on you
3033) So glad I saw the leaks before purchasing this game - was able to save my money and also my heart from a terrible heart-wrenching experience where my favorite characters from the first game are absolutely destroyed from a plot and story-telling perspective.,,The first game was a masterpiece. One of my top 10 favorite games. I loved the moral grey area presented in that game. This game is just trash. I'm so tired of agendas being pushed everywhere, and now this is taking over our beloved video games. Stop pandering to minority groups and the vocal minority at the expense of your fan based and those that loved your first game.,,So disappointing!! Very glad I saw the Angry Joe Show review on the leaks and avoided buying this game.,,Naughty Dog, way to ruin years of anticipation!
3034) The so-called "lovers" of this game blame the meaningless review bombing or blame people being bigot.,But they never understand what actual normal gamers want to have, very simple, a good story plot.,The game just simply ruin everything it built up in first title release.,- Ruined the characters it built up in first title,WTF happened to Joel? Joel can be dead but not in this way.,Where is his intelligence?,Where is his cautious personality?,- Ruined the world it built up in first title,TLOU world is A ZOMBIE APOCALYPSE world.,- It even ruined the ideas that the game want to send out, "Revenge is a bad thing"?,Bad story telling skill, chaotic timelines, just don't use flashbacks if you can't handle properly.,I stopped playing in the middle of Abby, i just can't play the game anymore.,To those people who want to criticize me, i don't need to eat the entire plate of food to know it is delicious / if i like the food, just like i don't need to play the whole game to know it is good / if i like the game.,Especially i already know the ending of this game.,Screw you Naughty Dog, and whoever said this game is masterpiece.
3035) good job, you deserve it . i love you naughty dog!!,LOVE !,SIKIsiki,good job, you deserve it . i love you naughty dog!!,LOVE !,SIKIsikigood job, you deserve it . i love you naughty dog!!,,SIKIsiki
3036) Sucks to say this but they ruined this game. Compared to Last Of Us 1 this game is unrecognizable. They killed Joel the main character in the first 2 hours and make you play as the character that killed him. There is tons of obvious jewish propaganda in this game like a Torah you can't destroy and a few other ones. Gameplay is meh and the graphics are okay for a ps4 game. Overall real **** experience personally
3037) Complete sjw garbage. The story is cringe tbh. Don’t buy this game; don’t waste your money.
3038) Why ..oh why kill Joel off ….. what is it with every story line being trodden on by developers,..... **** story way to woke
3039) Absolute garbage. If i just want good graphics and social engineering i can stay with netflix already for less bucks. Last time i pre order something. Gonna wait a few days to avoid a trap like that. Corrupted and paid reviewers boasting this crap and sjw zombies paradise.
3040) My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined.,I waited 5 years to play this,And they gave me a horrible intro and bad ending,I just want to forget about this game.
3041) The first last of us is my all time favourite game out of any video game, the characters in it, such as Joel and Ellie, they grew on me and seeing their relationship evolve to that of a father and daughter, I loved it, and it felt so natural. Then I saw the part 2 leaks and yeah like most people I wasnt happy, but i decided to go in with an open mind thinking maybe it will play out well. I was wrong. I definitely enjoyed the first couple of hours, getting to know some of the new characters as well as how Ellie has developed throughout the years, but then after only the first couple of hours out of a 30 hour or so game, they killed off Joel. This made me mad, not that Joel died, yes I was sad about that but about how quickly he died in the game, to me it felt rushed and killing off people's favourite character in only that short amount of time, which I was also mad about the fact that Joel just trusted the people in the resort so quickly, what happened to the Joel who was always on guard and didn't trust anyone?? Anyways that happened but I decided to stick through it and play on, because i did want to get revenge for Joel as Ellie. I loved playing as Ellie in the first part of the game, i had no problems with that, but then we get to the second part. Abby. Also known as Joels killer. I want to know what the hell was going through the writers heads when they decided we would want to play as our favourite characters murderer? But anyways I played as her, killed her a few times just to get my own revenge, and then we get to the Ellie part again. Now this was the part that just completely ruined the game for me, I stuck through it thinking with some hope it would get better, but nope. Ellie now has a family with Dina and JJ after getting beaten up by Abby and she decides to drop it all to go after Abby again, this didn't bother me, I was actually rooting for Ellie to go after her but then we do. And when Ellie was on the brink of getting her revenge she lets her go... This had me nearly throw my controller at the screen, i was fuming. The first part of the game was Ellie going and killing people that was in the same room as her when Joel died and finding out where Abby was, she even killed a pregnant lady, so for her to let her go at the last minute didn't make any sense. She left her family, she's killed a lot of people just to get to this one person, her friend has also died because of this person and she lets her go? It just didn't add up and if the writers were trying to send a message out they failed. They actually want firing. To me the game was trying to force upon political agendas, trying to get us to care about characters i would rather violently torture and it was just a big mess. Honestly it ruined me, the only joy I got out of playing this game was the actual gameplay, the graphics and the flashbacks of Joel and Ellie. Afterall that was the reason I wanted to play the game, to see there relationship as Father and daughter and get the old banter the two had from the first game, I hardly got any of that. Instead I was forced to play as a character i seriously wanted to kill and that I could care less about and I was forced to sit through a **** story. If anyone has gotten to the end of this long rant then i highly recommend not wasting your money on this game. After 7 years, they give us that, i think we deserve an apology as well as a rewrite of the story.
3042) Why the **** Joel die in first 2 hours?,Nice game **** you naughty dog,Go **** yourself
3043) What an absolute disaster of a game. I would highly recommend getting another game, or better yet get a pc.
3044) Story: Garbage Character arcs: Garbage,Visuals: Very good,Save yourself the pain of having to play 12 hrs as "Abby" this was really sad to see and experience, you threw this amazing franchise down the toilet in a really ugly way.,I really can't imagine people brainstorming and discusing ideas sitting in a room actually telling themselves this story arc was a good idea.
3045) Boring game. The game is ruining the part 1. Hey, Neil Druckmann, you did such a brilliant game that I never trusted naughty dog again.
3046) They’re destroying the story of the game unbelievable we all wait 7 years and the give us the garbage story
3047) Trash. What they did to Joel, Tommy, and Ellie is beyond the pale. And making you play as Joel’s killer. Asinine.
3048) You are better off forgetting that this game even exists. I have to admit the game is beautiful, but if you are a gamer that plays for the story. You'll have a bad time trying to rationalize the story. The magic of the first game is lost. In the first The Last of Us, you grow with a character that goes from grumpy old man, to a father who has something to live for. You experience Ellie's struggle as a survivor. You experience the joy of a father and a daughter's love  BUT Part II's story doesn't continue the fatherhood story line. You end up having Joel becoming a side character. A ghost of Christmas past if you will. Ellie's goes full Punisher on this game and it doesn't feel deserved. My only regret is hoping Part II would echo any magic from the first game.
3049) Played the first, tried the second.,,You get more enjoyment out of a Domino's Pizza family pack than this piece of garbage.
3050) Too bad game this game is not perfect.,Worst of the year game my rating is zero
3051) Horrible story, character decisions make zero sense. Forced identity politics in a post apocalyptic game. Abominable.
3052) "This game is perfect. The story telling is amazing" well that probably some SJW dude thinking that playing is Abby is better. Well no. Never. Nope. The whole story was ruined in this second game. I didnt enjoy it really. It was just heartbreaking
3053) Graphics are so nice ...with a ps4 pro and a good 4k TV...but this is not what I expected IT IS NOT! This is not last of us!
3054) the "official reviews" are all lies, the game butchered the ongoing character development including the game's story and they basically click‑baited all the fans of the original game to force them to play a character they all hated with political views gamers didn't want the game to be involved with.
3055) Nice graphics and some fun encounters with enemies but tied together with an awful story influenced by social politics, pandering to SJWs should never be rewarded and the design choice to force the player to spend half the game playing as the characeter we all despise is the dumbest decision i've seen forced upon us in long time.
3056) I've been waiting a long time to play this?? Put the main character in the trash!! Its a Pitty
3057) This game is offensive to fans of The Last of Us.,Dont spend a dollar on it.,Youll thank me later.
3058) Such a waste of potential. Stunning graphics, sound and acting, nice gameplay. All thrown away with an offensive story that shows no respect to the source material. This game is ruined because of poor writing, nothing else. I had hoped the leaks were somehow fake, but they are just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the actual game.,I will always cherish part one, and try my best to forget this sequel exists.
3059) Just disappointed. The Story is extremly boring and has a lot of plotholes. Bad game, dont buy it.
3060) Devs what are you doing to my game. This game was such a load of **** You should be ashamed of yourselfs. why would you do this. I mean c'mon. so bad
3061) Good gameplay, amazing action, setting and acting, great graphics, but horrible, and I mean HORRIBLE story. Part 2 **** all over the first installment characters and story.,Trust the leaks, trust the user reviews, don’t make the same mistake as me. Don’t tell yourself that everyone is just overreacting. I can’t go into detail without spoiling, but dear god, it’s starts out fine enough to pull you in and then takes a deep dive for the awful.,If you care about Joel and Ellie, about their story, relationship, character development and writing, about the first game, and about good storytelling and character building in general, don’t waste your money.
3062) The last of us was one of the best games I ve ever played. I waited 7 years to play the last of us 2 and the story is awful, thanks Naughty Dog for taking a big dump on the fans. Nice way to end a franchise
3063) I stand with the masses around the world in being soul crushingly disappointed and heartbroken by the death of our beloved Joel. All these years I waited, pre-ordered and set aside time to play this I was beyond excited. To be faced with our wonderful Joel have his life brutally taken. I'm heartbroken, angry, and horrified. Joel & Ellie are ruined now.,We were ALL so excited to see the bond between him & Ellie again, I don't even want to play now. Why is the focus on some murdering heathen, and Ellie embarking embarking on the Dina journey?? and who the hell wrote his death right at the very beginning of the game..?? This game franchise is ALL about Joel and Ellie. Why take him away in such a cheap, brutal way by that murderer, not a good decision. It was done in such a crass way. It is so nonsensical too in that it bears no ties to the first game at all, and Joel & Ellie don't even communicate! It makes me so mad the way they let Joel down in making him and Tommy come across stupid as to give their names and hometown to the gang. It's a total injustice. It feels like the very short time we see Joel, he's just an unknown background character, not the huge leading icon of the game he is. Very strange what you've done to these characters. Ellie didn't even have a kind word to say as Joel died, despite the fact she loves him like a father.,The bond, humour and love was always the treat to the gamer to watch between Joel & Ellie. It feels like a weird liberal agenda of lgbt and feminism shoved down our throats, than it paying respect to our Joel & Ellie's journey. Games are to escape from the dreariness of the modern world..,They built up hype all this this time around Joel and him coming to rescue Ellie once more and it was built on a lie! the lowest of the low. They wanted to 'shock' your audience, but instead disrespected and showed plain dishonour towards a monumentally huge fanbase around the world, to Joel.,Joel and Ellie are the soul of The Last Of Us.,When we first watched him playing his guitar and singing to Ellie, I was in a flood of tears it moved me so much I literally was so excited to see their new ventures together. That was the absolute best part, beautifully done you could feel it in your soul. I haven't even picked up this game since Joel died i'm just so disappointed. I'm so shocked Naughty Dog that you've completely ruined a world class, deeply loved game. When we got to Joel's house and saw the flowers adorned outside and Ellie's heart breaking cuddling his jacket with his scent on, I cried and this isn't how I wanted to feel when we all fell in love with Joel. I'm a nurse and have needed a happy escape during this pandemic in the world, all my friends laughed at how much I adore Joel and I was talking about my excitement getting to see him reunited with Ellie everyday for months before this came out. Now it's no happy escape at all and i'm angry.,With a heavy heart, back to the wonderful original The Last Of us with our Joel & Ellie x  original The Last of Us with our beloved Joel and Ellie.
3064) joel's death is nothing. But whole story is none sense. Don't do it. You gotta hate yourself for playing this game.
3065) The 1st Last of Us only had one exceptional thing, which was a compelling story. Other elements were not revolutionizing but done correctly. The 2nd iteration lost the only thing the franchise had (the story) . Now I think this is comparable to GoT ending i.e horrible
3066) I will never forgive naughty dog for this piece of crap.Please be a good human and DO NOT buy this game. The Gameplay is pretty good but there are plenty of games out there with much better gameplay. Do i even need to talk about the story?
3067) You must play this game in order to fight for feminism, etc.,and put Sargsyan for the director and you will be 10/10
3068) Horrible game, even more so if you actually played the first part. Played for 2 hrs, can't take this s**t any more. Naughty Dog, thank you for ruining a fantastic story.
3069) Terrible, no sense, **** story that was the strong point of the game, I was disappointed because I was waiting for 5 years! Good gameplay, horrible story!
3070) The story is absolute trash it is told in a convoluted way, the caracteres make the most stupid decisions ever, they totally destroyed everything they made in TLOU 1, forced inclusivity, the way they killed Joel was absolutely disgraceful; Abby was the worst charaxcter im the game and yet half the way is you playing as her, the ending sucked ass.,The only good partes are the graphics, music, sound design and that they improved the combat a bit, explorarion is good.
3071) Everything is perfect except the story is garbage and that’s what ruined the whole experience
3072) **** story, nice visuals but it’s a story driven game so if this nihilistic demonisation of loved characters is the story it’s a no From me. The games soul purpose is to make Ellie Joel and Tommy look like bad guys and some muscle bound random is made to look like the good guy. Joel and Ellie also get super depressing story arch’s and traumatic endings. While Abby the unlikable unredeemable experiment of a character gets a redeeming story and ending full of hope.,Also this game preachy af.
3073) I played the game to the very end.  All of the criticism I have read about the game is accurate.  TLOU was the greatest game ever made.  I understand making a worthy sequel is difficult.  Stunning visuals aren't enough to make a game a masterpiece.  This game has absolutely zero replayability.  I have never played a game with a perfect rating before that was painful to finish.
3074) No one is mad because of the lgbt/trans characters. But overall it's ****,,Spoilers,People are mad because of how the narrative is structured. The plot is terrible and overall the message makes no sense. It's about revenge, yet you kill several people to get to that one person then let that person get away ? " revenge is bad" but Abby got away with it and is happy while Ellie and Joel gets **** over.
3075) I played through the entire game, and thoroughly feel i've been ripped off, I legit wish I could go back and forget I EVER played this garbage game.,,Joel dies, you're forced to play as abby, and the game is horrible.
3076) I feel really disappointed that I waited 7 years with high expectations for the game
3077) Terrible. Rubbish history, new boring characters and forced ideology. Congratulations to those involved.
3078) Sometimes it is better for a story to never continue.,Neil Druckmann killed her masterpiece.
3079) Gameplay of 2004 level. Dialogs were written by insane people. Plot narration and ending my respect (no).
3080) Graphic is beautiful, animations are really good and the soundtrack is amazing, the gameplay is the same as the first game, the new mechanics (like the jump button) don't bring anything new to the gameplay and it gets kinda boring. BUT I can't give this game above 0 because the plot is so contrived, nosense and disrespectful that it's impossible, as a great fan of the first game, to give this STORY DRIVEN game somewhat credit.,This is not the TLJ or GoT S8 of videogames, this is worse.,The plot is a mess from the beginning because it's a dreadful retcon of the first game ending, saying that the Fireflies would have created a vaccine and saved the world, when it's clear throughout the first game that they're just an incompetent and dangerous group of terrorists.,All the og characters are completely different, they range from their true personality to their new one in a second, they're lunatic and make A LOT of stupid decisions, only to make the plot move forward. All the death scenes are so random and meaningless that the player reaches a point where he doesn't care anymore.,There are a lot of new characters and the game tries to make us empathize with each one using a lot of subplots in the span of 20/25 hours, making the complete plot even more contrived.,The message of the game is "revenge bad", but fulfilling one's desire of revenge is ultimately rewarded, because Abby (killer of Joel) gets revenge for her dad (firefly surgeon) and in the end she gets away with it and reunites with the fireflies, while Ellie loses everything and everyone in her path for revenge, and in the end she spares Abby, remaining lonely, defeated and hollow.,If you're a fan of The Last of Us, you will hate this, and you'll come to hate the writers.
3081) First of, I CANNOT believe that THIS is the sequel to one of the greatest games of all time.,,I... why should I write the reason why I give it a 0? The media, the makers, and those who "love" the game will just dimiss eveything I say based on my being "a racist, anti-lgbt incel", and all those other buzzwords. As if I had any issues with the characters in the first game...,,I'll only say this: games like the Last of Us are CHARACTER driven. There are no characters in this game, only marionettes forced to act and make decisions according to the writers' personal believes. This game's story is, and I'm DEAD SERIOUS, nothing short of propaganda, and not even LGBT propaganda neccessarily (although you can't blame me for thinking it is when all male characters in the game are either killed off or retired by the end of it).,,In other words, it qualifies as propaganda by the simple fact that the characters are (so blatantly) forced to act out the ideology and the world-view of the writers to the point of making ridicuouse decisions no person who survived so long in that world would make.,,Art, on the other hand, is creating characters (and setting up their pasts from the get-go!!!) so fully fleshed out that the story practically writes itself.,,I... just can't with this game. Abhorant. Abhorant writing. With games like this I don't care how pretty it looks. It's not why I was willing to pay 60 bucks. Jesus... this just made me even more furiouse. I wasted 60 f*cking dollars on this utter grabage.,,In a nutshell: this game's story feels like the experiment in story telling of an amateur, untalented, hack writer in college who thinks the world of himself... named Neil Druckman.,,The game has also a surprising number of glitches and bugs throughout. What did they work on for 7 years? It sure as hell wasn't the story.,,No. The '0' I gave this game is not exaggerated, not when it's a betrayal thrown into our faces with the expectation to say thank you on top.
3082) The last of us part 2 is a disgrace and an insult to fans of the first. The gameplay brings hardly anything new to the table with the exception of a jump and prone feature and some environmental mechanics which feels overall lazy and uninspired given the development time. The visuals are nice and very satisfying for 2020 standards but are hardly as groundbreaking as corrupt reviewers are making out to be. As the for the story, this game deliberately makes an attempt to destroy and bastardise the legacy and fate of beloved characters in order to cheaply subvert expectations and push a political agend. The rest of the story feels lacklustre and unsure of its own endgame and is constantly bringing the narrative to a halt with  the overuse of flashbacks and different character perspectives . The ending is a disgusting disservice to the efforts of the player and leaves beloved characters in a depressing and hopeless scenario whilst characters hated by the fan base are set up for a sequel. The game is and it’s writers are a disgrace do not buy.
3083) Beautiful graphics, absolute trash on everything else.  The story, characters, and plot are abysmal.,,I can't believe Druckman self-inserted into the game for a sex scene with an imaginary character.  I'm still **** laughing.,,Really glad I bought my ps4 for persona instead of this.
3084) What a perfect pile of mierda and incredible idiotic way to ruin this franchise..,DO NOT BUY THIS GAME YOU WILL REGRET IT.
3085) Played it. Switching to xbox. The agenda ruined the game.  The attacks by Sony ruined the console.  Are the naughty dog writers so simple that they can't come up with new and interesting ideas on there own? All they have the mentality for is destroying what put them in their seats. Good riddance.
3086) Terribly written, just to provide shock value and woke virtue signalling with nonsensical character actions and plot holes throughout the story.,,Don't get people with obvious agendas to consult and write your scripts.,,Most of the advertising was false, the game was something different entirely.
3087) Miss me with this this piece of propaganda. Whole storyline is garbage. Ruined the 1st one entirely.
3088) Reboot TLOU2 or i will buy xbox instead PS5. And what the hell is wrong with naughtydog to even consider a poisonous lady to write the story.
3089) My expectations was very high,  and my heart broken once i reach the final, naughty dog, if you seen this, you made it all wrong and fake with this tons of trillers you killed joel and the journey what you force me to do whit abby is a punnishment, i hate abby and i hate the game.
3090) This isn’t a video game, this is just a politically correct answer to the video game industry, no more.
3091) Finally done!! This Game is ok if you're only seeking Graphics and Gameplay. The story line and plot to insert a new character really ruined this experience for me. I just don't understand how you could have 7 years to Create something memorable and enjoyable for your supporters and totally drop the ball. Ima very disappointed in the mediocre gameplay and Horrible storyline. Just glad my little cousins mother purchased my disc before I destroyed it!! Please dont make a TLOU3 its ok, we're okay. Goodbye.
3092) Historia basura con un gameplay que es un the evil whitin con skin de the last of as
3093) Worst game ever!!!! The game ruined part one. No recommend for anyone to purchase this game
3094) I've played the first game over and over, not for the gameplay really, but for the story.,When I bought the second game, again it wasn't really for the gameplay it was for the story.,And man was it disappointing. Whether it's Joel's early death. The lack of information on what happened during the five years that had passed. Or the fact that you play more of the game as the person you so desperately want to kill. Then if that's not enough Ellie, leaves a perfectly good life, with a hope of being a part of a family to finally kill Abby. Only to go through hell and let her live. Also just to run salt in the womb, she can't play guitar anymore.,Now I've thought and talked about this with friends. If we had the chance to write this story what would we have done, and here it is.,The start needed to be more flashbacks, or just scenes in general of the past five years with Joel and Ellie. After completing the first game that's what we all wanted to see.,Show their relationship build until the point she finds out the truth about what really happened at the hospital. Then do a time jump of two years, to the point of the evening Ellie and Dina kiss, and the part when Joel interferes and Ellie tells him she dosent need him and all that jazz. Clearly still pissed at him. Then the catalyst moment should of been Tommy being killed by some fireflies that he wronged in the past. Joel decides to set out on a revenge quest, and Ellie, even though they're not on good terms right now. Cares about him too much to let him go at it alone. She decides to go with him. In the first game they build a relationship on the road. In this game they rebuild their relationship on the road. When it's all fixed, and as a well earned finale/payoff, then you could kill Joel. After an entire game of playing with and alongside him. Boom, now that's how you write a part 2!
3095) Just bad..............,Why do we expect more? I waiting 7y just for this crap omg
3096) Heart broken ending. Dis-respect to the main characters. Dont waste your money otherwise you'll be dissapointed too.
3097) Pro: Graphics,Con: Story,,They ruined the duo of Joel and Ellie. The sequel spits on the greatness of the first game. I wanted to put the controller down once I started playing as Abby. I don't care about Abby's history or her motivations. I finished the game hoping the ending gave some satisfaction. However, the ending was every bit as awful as the journey.
3098) It is like they studied what their characters would do given their previous history and went the complete opposite of what that would be. It honestly feels like the critics scoring this game a 10/10 have a agenda which is beyond **** and should not be tolerated. Time to clean house of all the paid "critics" if you ask me.
3099) Erm, I already regret on purchase at day one.....Thanks Naughty Dog, you already choose the path that fk yourselves up. RIP The Last of Us, my old time good game. You will be remember; except this part 2. The bigger the excitement, the bigger the disappointment.
3100) Horrible story, does not live up the first game in the slightest. Don't buy.
3101) Disappointing game. The way the main character from the 1st game dies is just annoying. I stopped playing after this.
3102) absolute shame.,Certain game mechanics are ok, but most stuff is just brought back from the first game. Unlike the first game, i feel no connection to ANY character in this game. Theyre very very bland. I dont even want to get started on the story.
3103) embarrassing for Naughty Dog！why would ellie do anything like that？ kill hundreds and forgive abby？very WEAK story and EMPTY character！
3104) Horrible game with just an awful story, game forces you to play as the killer of your most favorite character, the entire story is about revenge when you don’t even get revenge in the end, you kill a pregnant women but you don’t kill the killer of our favorite character, game is poorly made and should not be played.
3105) If I could rate this game any lower than a 0 I would but the game's image, graphics and it's storyline was something I was hoping for forever honestly, but this game this game especially was not something I wasn't expecting it to do "flop" in 2020. 2020 already sucks as a year, this game made it worse thanks naughty dog I thought you were going to do something great but I was wrong. DE ath to Abby!!!
3106) I did not expect such a game to be played by naughty dogs.,Then there are all the other new characters. Nobody is likeable. Like really. They all feel empty. They are only shells without any meaning.,This game is just bad. Do yourself a favor and dont buy it. The reviews the journalists wrote are either bought by Sony or ND or are heavily politicly influenced. Sad thing is: because of that same journalists will most likely make this game GOTY. What a joke.
3107) Gameplay is outdated.Graphic is 7/10 but heroes and history of this game is **** 0/10
3108) naughty dog just **** on its fans,absolutely disappointed,,don't buy the game
3109) Last time I spend money on a sequel before I see if the game is good or not.
3110) Just clear the game. I feel so depressed right now. As a huge fan of the last one, I still can’t believe I’ve been waiting years for this **** Joel was dead, Ellie lost everything in her life plus two fingers. This is just not the way to make your fans impressive. I probably will give this game an 8 , but as long as it’s the Last of Us, it will only deserve a 0 and a middle finger. By the way, what’s wrong with Naughty dog thinking players want to play Abby for 8 hours after she killed Joel?! It’s not enjoyable and I still want to get the revenge during every minute of it. The worst part is, Naughty dog took that decision from players and ‘help’ players choose the ‘right’ choice. Seriously, I don’t need your opinion, I just want to get the **** done.,Anyway, I will definitely not buy the sequel (I really hope there is not).
3111) Writing is beyond garbage, they Luke Skywalker'd Joel and the whole game feels like Game of Thrones season 8, save your money, it deserves a 0
3112) It was a terrible story compared to the first generation. The death of the hero is unacceptable to me，and I had to manipulate a game character Abby I hated so much, I think is torture of the player. Change the screenwriter.
3113) Forgot zombies are a thing in the game. Absolutely **** garbage storyline naughtydog. **** dissapointment.
3114) Ultimately the story just lacked substance. Killing of important characters, especially the way they did, just ruined the game for me. Disappointing after such a long wait.
3115) Story is very unattractive. I did not enjoy playing as Abby. Official information and trailers do not represent the final product. Overall disappointed.
3116) This game is a huge disappointment, I would go into examples which would be spoilers but I think its important for people to see for themselves and know this Neil Druckmann replace Amy Hennig who was the real talent for TLOU and Uncharted and look no one says anything that a man replaced a more then qualified woman. Other problems is they take beautiful woman and alter them to look more like men and claim its because men are attracted to women and that is bad while people dont realize they are being misogynistic and sexist in the process because they think a women looking like a man is better??? Just know they want to use us and our anger to make them all money and dont be fooled by people dressed a sheep claiming to be on your side just buy their merch to show you dont agree. I hope this madness stops soon before its too late and those who use us for their personal gain gets theirs. We dont care who someone sleeps with or attracted too and of course people are born that way and its not their fault because DNA is a program that sometimes creates a male body but programs it as if its a female body and it ranges from kinda to full blown. We have knowledge now and cant be fooled but everyone is so desparate to be seen that they will ignore logic for vanity.
3117) It's like when you get people on your project team in school that doesn't even go to class, that level of forced inclusion its this hole game.
3118) The most Rubbish game ever. no more Neil no more naughtydog,#asianlivesnotnatter
3119) By allah this game is haram and its creators deserve a great fall from an unknown height as punishment
3120) The worst game of my life.,damage to one's previous work.,I can't relate to this game.,I bought disgust at the expense of money.
3121) Well. I would say combat of this game is good, really good but nothing more. Story is awful while it is a story-based game, not Call of Duty. Characters are bad and soulless. Puzzles were bad in first game(if we can call them puzzles), it is still same. Saving bucks is the best option.
3122) I wouldn't give a "1", except for the fact that they false advertised, and wasted my money. When there is a delta of 6 points between the critic score and the user score, that means they paid those critics. I was LIED TO and STOLEN from by Naughty Dog and Sony. How is this allowed?
3123) I wanna say hello to neil druckmann and anita sarkeesian. You are personally responsible for this low rates. Hope to see you in Macdonald's uniform soon.
3124) I loved the first Last of Us game and was excited for this one, The gameplay and graphics are actually really good, but the main point of a game like this is the story. This felt like the biggest slap on the face i've ever experienced. Do not listen to the critic reviews as they were not allowed to talk about the entire second half of the game. This is the video game equivalent of the Ghostbusters reboot movie that came out a couple years ago.
3125) could've been better.,,the writing is awful,,,the visuals are okay but that's what you're SUPPOSED to do so it's not really anything to reward them over,,the gameplay and mechanics have very little changes, some of the mechanics are outright useless but its not something really amazing. the only part of this game truly new and something to talk about is the animations, but seeing as i don't agree with a forced crunch culture that forces workers to miss out on their families in favor of watching torture and murder p*rn these animations are not worth it.
3126) Who did they market this game to? Certainly not Me and my young son at the time this first came out.,I tried all night when I was finished, to think of another game that made me feel bad instead of good when finished, I couldn't.,A game is suppose to make you feel good and escape reality. Not bring politics and PC into it.,I don't even want to give it one red bar.
3127) Awful, first part was better. Stop raping a good story, better do something new and without this trendy feministic inclinations which are really misplaced.
3128) Dumpster fire of a game. Bad story, bad characters. Forced agenda. Superman 64 is more fun than this garbage.
3129) if you wanna make a great game, hear the opinions from the team not like this.. Very dissapointed, don't buy.
3130) gameplay is normal almost like the first part, the graphic is better but the story is **** characther development only for ellie other characther doesn't have it, the ending is **** with ellie's regret cause sudden flashback seeing joel and didn't kill abby, there is no
3131) It started off well, but I didn't enjoy playing a second with Abby, a very poorly written character. only the beginning of the game is good, then you only end it by obligation.
3132) Trash game, one of the worst I have ever played. Worth 5$ max, if even that, played it for 1 hour and then sold it again, couldn't stand it, the gameplay, story and graphics are all embarrassing. Naughty Dog should be ashamed of themselves for releasing this hot garbage.
3133) I regret not reading the spoilers for the game because I would have canceled my preorder of the collector's edition. After the first 2 hours, the rest is so predictable. Really great graphics and sound don't make up for where they decided to go with the story, which is the whole selling point of The Last of Us. It's like they sat down and said "What do people like about the first game?" and decided to do the exact opposite every step of the way.,,It took me a bit over 20 hours to finish the game on moderate difficulty, and I have no interest whatsoever in playing it again. The last 10 hours were just a grueling race to finish the game in which I had no interest whatsoever in that part of the story.
3134) Completely disappointing for anyone expecting a sequel to the first game, as reporters' comments were paid for by Sony and that is sad. The gaming industry no longer has as much credibility
3135) The story is just bad. Any why the hell did we have to play as those new chars. Wtf garbage. Go home with this. Sony should issue refunds
3136) Such a disappointment. The first game was such a masterpiece compared to this one. I regret playing it.
3137) The game is just god awful like how you going to force all these changes expecting everyone to accept them like really grow up nobody wants your political view let alone want to play that trash ass character name abby
3138) Horrible game!¡!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
3139) Worse story ever,  dont make any sense.  Great graphics and fun Gameplay.  The story however is horrible.
3140) I love the original last of us, honestly one of the best games. I’m just pretending Part 2 didn’t happen though.,If Joel had to die I just wish it was done in a different way. When I finished part 2 I felt that his death was cheap and I was forced to try to sympathise with Abby, when I hated every moment I had to play as her. So half the game was terrible.,Joel saved her life then she just killed him without warning, that’s psychopathic. Yes Joel killed her father, but he was trying to save Elly because he didn’t want to lose another daughter. And her father did pull a knife on him, so I felt that more justified than what Abby did.,Joel killed out of an act of love, and Abby killed out of an act of revenge. That’s why I will never sympathise with her.,Joel killed out of love because he didn’t want Elly to die, and there was clear warning beforehand. Abby killed out of hatred for Joel without warning. Joel didn’t even know who she was. Like Joel, her motivation was selfish as well, and worse she dragged her friends into it.,I hated every moment I had to play as Abby and was left disappointed by the games narrative choices, and it ultimately ruined the game for me.
3141) Didn’t like it, bad story, bad character, I’ve waited for so long to play this just to find that they don’t care about gaming and they force a political agenda
3142) This game is clearly a masterpiece, but I don't like it. It's like this... there are definitely better games than metal gear solid 2 but that doesn't mean metal gear solid isnt my favourite, the same way in which you can get better dogs than my golden retriever... but I like my golden retriever. This game is clearly a masterpiece... seriously you'd have to be crazy to deny that this game is f****** incredible ...but I don't like it. (Last example
3143) Total failure of storytelling. The creators just shoot themselves in the foot.
3144) Disappointment, is what this game is.,They ruined one of the most amazing games in history.
3145) Trash should be a golf game. Nastiest sex. Scene in history made my dick fall off
3146) Played and absolutely loved part 1. I don't know what they were thinking for part 2. This game was most noted for its story. While the graphics and game play are awesome, the store falls completely flat. It's almost like the developers didn't play the first part of this game. There is no way Joel would have entered that space with that many strangers and just introduce himself. That makes no sense, it was just done because the plot needed it to happen. They were too lazy to think of a creative, sensible way to kill him that was in line with his character.,,Joel's death isn't the real problem however, while the way it happened is stupid, it does carry emotional weight. The big problem is that there is absolutely zero pay off. Joel is not avenged. So what was even the point of his death? It leaves a great feeling of dissatisfaction as his death is rendered meaningless. He was killed just for the shock value and that's it.,,I just don't know how they got it so wrong after first getting it so right. The thing that made the first game so successful was the bonding of the characters, that is what worked. They completely missed the mark on this one. Amazing graphics and really solid game play can only take a game so far. If that's what you're interested in then definitely play this game. But if you think it'll be as compelling a story as its predecessor, think again.
3147) Nothing to discuss about the graphics, the movements of characters during the dialogues and the audio of the game, making you feel deeply immersed in the gameplay in every single moment of these 30hs of gameplay. BUT, i could not give more than this rating because of the story, the ending makes you feel empty inside without any real final of the story (we don't know whether ellie goes to dina or wherever else). Moreover, those hours spent playing the ebby's character without any real interest in this last lets me think they had no other content and put this just to "fill the bottle" .... so disappointed, i'd hope this was just a dream of mine but not. NAUGHTY DOG, sincerely, thanks a lot for DESTRYOING this franchise that was so brilliant and that's now  taken down by the same creator.
3148) thank you naughty dog for this horrible contrived mess,,,please lord let me forget ever playing this
3149) It makes me sad to admit that my favorite franchise didn't go nearby my expectations. Just for sake of those flashbacks of I'm giving a mixed reaction. Hope Neil Druckman learns his lesson from this disaster.
3150) - Poor boring gameplay,- Flat characters,- Bad scenario (with huge plot holes and endless coincidences),- Parasitising on TLOU Pt. 1,,Graphic pure and beau, but this is a cinematic story, if narrative bad - this aspect doesn't matter. God bless this 3d-designers, crunches that u paid - cost nothing.
3151) Trash, Neil ruins this game with proge thinks so don't waste your money.....
3152) The entire legacy was lost to the progressive agenda. A bad and expensive game. I didn't buy it because of other people's beliefs, I just wanted a decent sequel to Joel and Ellie's original story.
3153) **** you naughty dog. This game is utter **** I will never buy another naughty dog game. I hope you go bankrupt soon. I heard horror stories about how you treat employees.
3154) Objectively, without unnecessary feelings, emotions, worries and expectations, this is an amazing game. Despite the plot. And partly, thanks to him. But especially thanks to the impeccable gameplay, the feel of the game and the amazing visuals. Objectively, this is 12/10.,,But subjectively, with their own feelings, emotions, feelings and expectations, despite the impeccable gameplay and luxurious visuals, and this time it is precisely through the fault of the gameplay, this is a disgusting game. This is -100/10.,,But since it is lower than 0, you can’t set it here, I set 0. But I would also set -100. -1000 would put.
3155) I am honestly so disappointed. I loved the first game and its story.,No spoilers but it ruins everything for some **** progressive agenda. Why couldn't they focus on a good game and leave politics to politicians.
3156) Poor gameplay, FORCED politics huge = turn off to gameplay, sh*t story, poor quality all adds up to ND completely disrespecting us diehard tlou fans
3157) Black lives matter, but if you are white, yellow and not LGBT, you should be kill.,Is this a racist game?,10/10
3158) My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined. Why have a character with zero development ruin the story? Nice. See you in 5 years ND
3159) The story is just so disappointing, visually its amazing, gameplay wise its nothing special, but the writing  is fan fiction level bad.
3160) Wow, just wow i am speechless. All these years of waiting just for this embarrassment of a game. It’s truly sad to see what was once a truly beloved franchise go to waste because on someone else’s influence.
3161) That game sucks, kill the main protagonist of the first game with a ridiculously death, and the worse, Ellie didn't kill Abby. That game really sucks
3162) I will put it very simply so every moron can understand. This game is not a big piece of **** because I am relieved and stress free while ****ting. This game is a unique way of torturing yourself.
3163) This game forces the player do violence. I felt terrible at the end of the game.,I hate to press the hit button but I had to press it.,I couldn't focus on the character (because I didn't want to be the character),and the game was bored.,,Someone might see this game artistic. But I cannot forgive this game at all.,This game should not be forgiven.
3164) This is not the way to carry on a story. If ND is interested in narrative experimentation in playing as a character's killer, then I think a new IP would have been the place to do it. Don't spit in the face of the fans. I loved TLOU 1. I love that it told us about hope in a world of despair. I love that it had memorable, precious moments between characters, but this game is MISERABLE. Everything is miserable from the characters to story beats to the themes. There is no light in the dark anymore because ND extinguished it. Avoid this game.
3165) story 0/10,interesting game play 0/10,political correctness 10/10, that's what we needed to make the best game in 2020,Great job Neil, Great job naughty dog
3166) Played it for the story. I couldn't be more disappointed! Don't want to play it a second time, so I sold it....
3167) Very bad game. Awfully stupid and not logical game.Do not make my mistake, do not buy the game
3168) Unbelievably horrible story!! Very disrespectful to our beloved characters Joel and Ellie. Feel like they are raped by the writer and lost their souls. If you are a fan to the first part, you should never buy this one to ruin your memory and feelings.,And those game critics and media should be ashamed of themselves. Giving it a 10/10 and calling it a masterpiece is not only disgraceful but also disgusting. Here are my ratings:,Graphics: 9,Game play: 8,Story: -10,Pace: -10,Overall: -3
3169) Just dont even bother, like everything about the game is awful. The only upside is the game looks incredible
3170) So boring gameplay . Druckman can't make games. And killing Joel is so dumb decision
3171) Not a lot to say.  I LOVE the first game and have been waiting on the sequel since I beat the game all those years ago.,I feel gutted, what they've done to our beloved characters is insulting.,I don't even care that the games controls and systems haven't really evolved, they do feel dated, but whatever.  If I'd have been able to play a good story I doubt I would have ever noticed the controls, truly.,Honestly, even if the story were better I don't know that I could have liked the game with what happens to the first games protagonists.,Disappointing and a tragic miscalculation.
3172) Another "inclusive" game, don't waste your money and buy something better like Cory in the White House.
3173) is one of the best game i ever played, because show exactly the way how they act in that situation its somethings boring you have to search too many things but thats the life in one pandemia, they have a lot of moment hardest but in the history, there is something that i dont like about why you have to play with abby? i dont feel comfotable
3174) This game had so much potentiel. was ruined by a bad story adn tediuos gameplay. no character development at all. Game looks good, sadly the story makes you wish you hadnt played it.
3175) Huge letdown. Nice graphics and artwork I would give it a 5 just for that , because the poor guys working at naughty dog just follow orders but for mr Druckmann I give a nice 0 out of 10!
3176) The first game is beautiful with an awesome story and I even have a tattoo inspired by it. The second game though... the gameplay is good, it has beautiful graphics, but has a horrible story. Part 2 is a **** you to Joel, Ellie and the fans. Don't waste your money on this ****, the game is also being mass returned and refunded here in Australia to the point where stores aren't accepting any more copies. You can safely say **** Naughty Dog as a company with this title, don't support them or this death of a franchise.
3177) Really pushing an agenda with this game, truly disgusting. The story line is not consistent either.
3178) Weak story . And who puts political agenda to games. I dont recomend this is not worth your time
3179) The game has a horrible story and has a theme that is a completely different from the first game which was all about hope and now everything is just cold and bleak also joel's death is one of the worst ways any character has every been killed in a game
3180) Dont pay any money to get punched in the gut. That is some free advice. If you liked the first, the second is made to hurt you. Just rent torture p*rn, it won't be as twisted as what's in the game.
3181) The story is a joke, what a waste of what could have been a great game. Naughty dog need to go back to the drawing board here.
3182) Game is trash. Joel dies in the first two hours and no justice is served. Entire game is essentially pointless Nothing wrong with gay characters but LGBT situations drive story, this is supposed to be a horror/survival game, unlikely that people would be worried about gender identity during an apocalypse. Fighting and graphics are solid as expected, but not the worth the money, get it free with ps plus in a few years, or at least wait for Black Friday sales.
3183) I loved the first one mainly for the story and characters. It is my second favorite game. The story ist very bad und what they did to the characters ist just stupid. I know what they tried but sorry they failed miserably. Beloved characters mean something for fans. That is why they stay with us years after we finish the game. I hate what they did to them. And i mean both. Ellie and Joel. And no. Joel was not the bad guy. Everyone tells me that. Because he saved Ellie. They wanted to kill a child for a chance to save themselves. When did we go to child sacrifice is ok again. Did i miss something. If the only way to save humanity ist to sacrifice children then humanity is already dead. Let us go with some dignity. Child sacrifice? Really? People are defending that?
3184) Game looks gorgeous , some physics need improvements. At the first beginning it gives you a nice feeling about the game , until everything goes down ... and it begins with Joel's death.. the reason of this review is that , i bought and played the game due to its amazing story in the first part , i did not expect such a story ... played a lot to get nothing...the story is rubbish
3185) Absolute garbage boring gameplay,very very bad story,ugly charecters,average gameplay the only good thing is the graphics but that is already expected from a nexgen game
3186) This game is a perfect example of why people sometimes hate sequels. It doesn't do a good job keeping up with the quality of the original's story. Most importantly, had not much fun playing it.
3187) Wow..7 years for this.  How hard did they try???? Was there a meeting where they said, "hey screw the fans they will buy our crap!" The writers re-wrote all the male characters to be mindless jabronies, Wtf.  Joel is john wick, he has a code of survival in the first game, and in this one he trusts random strangers with his real name acting like a noob??!  The whole story is crap! crap writing and mediocre changes to gameplay(wow a jump button); kinda makes this not worth 60 dollars.  Bring down the price.  Its starting to make sense why more than half of naughty dog left, Neil **** butchered a fan favorite. The fall from grace is felt.  Save you money andyour time..THINGS are looking up though, Ghost of tsushima is coming out, assassin's creed Valhalla is on its way; These will wash away the taste of DeadDreams and staggeringaRegret that The Last of Us part 2 has left behind....p.s.  the people leaving horrible comments on Laura bailey 's twitter should shut the **** up. Its not her fault, she had nothing  to do with naughtydog 's corrupted  story, death threats are way over the line you degenerates.  Shes an actress dumb asses. So shut your traps and leave the poor girl alone. Jesus you people need therapy.
3188) The fact that Joel dies in the worst way imaginable, also having to play as his killer for 10 hours and not letting Ellie even get revenge is not worth your $60 or the the seven year wait
3189) I am sad because they killed the part 1,The story is very bad and not worth buying
3190) No respect for what the last game had established, through everything out of the window and instead focused on poorly written and unlikable characters encompassed by a generic revenge story again paying 0 respect to their previous work.
3191) World is a bit prettier and that's about it. The story is atrocious and the characters are totally annoying. They just had to go and get political and alienate most of their fans in one way or another. It's really just a dumpster fire that needs to end now.
3192) As a fan of the the first part i'm very very very very very very disappointed
3193) They completely ruined the story to the point of spitting on it all in the name of political agendas.  I own uncharted 1-4, lost legecy, tlou on PS3 the remaster on my PS4 and I will never purchase this utter garbage trash filth. Get back to making great game experiences and stories !!!!
3194) If you don’t want to sit through a lecture in gender politics or if you liked the first game and don’t want someone to **** all over your memories of it then don’t buy this mess of a game! Don’t listen to bought critics!
3195) The last of us 2014 made a good impression on many players around the world, good graphics, technical part, history in the end. And one of the most beloved characters in the entire gaming industry, Joel, a character that I wanted to worry about, for which players were afraid that he would not get a decent sequel. It was this character who made the last of us what it is. A man who lost his daughter, becoming insensitive and cold-blooded, such as you should be in a world populated by zombies, in a world where people literally fight for food and weapons. The loss of someone close to him caused many players to shed tears, so well was this moment in the game worked out. There was no love line in the game that would distract the player from passing the first part. Only survival and only a world populated with dangers, one task is to save the world with the help of Ellie, but throughout the game we see how Joel's attitude to Ellie changes, how he begins to take care of her and finally understands that she has become a native person for him and does not allow her to kill. And now for the last of us 2, hopefully the first trailer, the voice of the beloved Joel, Ellie angry at all, here it is a dream come true, it was supposed to be a sequel to dreams, BUT the release of the second trailer, lesbians in the eyes, inflated woman, suddenly out of nowhere increased the number of races in the world where WALKS a DEADLY VIRUS, LOOTERS, HUNGER, DISEASE MORTAL DANGER TO ANYONE, but not for a group of lesbians and Teens, which is the story of the game, honestly the first ten minutes of the game were great this is when you play as Joel. Further and further the game becomes uninteresting. And I had a question AND for what 10/10, FOR WHAT??? thanks for the graphics, but we've seen better ( red dead redemption 2, God of war, the order 1886 2015 release!!) so just look at what the graphics are, it will not work, hmm... maybe the gameplay, maybe there is something new, that's a surprise, NO there is the same thing that was, I repeat for what 10/10???? Yes, you shoved us lesbians, open, I beg your pardon, pornography, and of course, inflated women and men. So I still do not understand this world in the post-APOCALYPSE, where there IS NOT enough FOOD WATER and MEDICINE, do you call this realistic??? do they have gyms open and everyone drinks protein? Lord here is an example of post-Apocalypse (mad max, where to get diesel and water, where the people look like crazed savages where no one wants anyone to have sex) there are also examples in movies, and it dies the whole planet, the land of the dead, dawn of the dead, but in the second zombie movie there's sex but its not shoved in trailers, and did not put on a show, look we have sex. All this pornography completely spoils the whole atmosphere of the game, the atmosphere of post-Apocalypse and danger. The world is not so much gays and lesbians, and in the game where the world is on the brink of extinction, where all eating hungry zombies, kill the marauders, and destroying of the disease, for some reason it's not picking them from the fact that they are what OTHER diseases do not take and zombies don't want them to bite??? And also probably one of the most important questions, if all this LGBT squad does not affect the plot, then WHY DID you PUT THEM in the GAME, WELL, that's WHY, IT only DISTRACTS the PLAYER from the PLOT. But they say with a proudly raised head "look we have lesbians and sex" we are for everyone, dear creators, leave your position on this matter to yourself, we do not NEED it AT all and are not INTERESTED in it. And so we realized that all these LGBT characters were not needed at all, we figured out that it is simply IMPOSSIBLE to pump up someone, men or women in such a world. and finally... Joel. what did they do to you, the character everyone loves, who everyone cares about, was killed.... With a GOLF CLUB, and now laugh because it's so funny, you would have just drowned him in the toilet, no well, seriously, a man who lost his daughter, who survived in the world of the post-Apocalypse, who almost lost his heart, was beaten guys with a Golf club, a GOLF CLUB Carl, I don't understand why???? FOR WHAT ???? YOU TREATED HIM LIKE THAT. it was he who represented the last of us, not ELLIE, but JOEL. And you want high ratings from the players??? and Yes by the way all those who say, "you're just in the game is not played, so I don't understand" or "Yes, you never created the game and so you don't understand" to understand that the movie is bad as a game, it is enough to watch the trailer or ten minutes from a movie or game and understand that in the movie as in the game may be bad graphics, bad beginning, bad acting, no need to watch the whole movie or to GO through the WHOLE game YOU KILLED THE LAST OF US BECAUSE OF ALL THIS BECAUSE OF LGBT PROPAGANDA FOR EQUALITY, AND FOR THE MURDER OF JOEL, YOU CAN'T BE FORGIVEN.
3196) I had a pretty unpleasant experience in this game. Overall, this game has good graphic but terrible story lines that makes you feel bad.
3197) f u c k you neil,I truly hope Naughty Dog lets this franchise die in the pit they dug for it.I absolutely loved the first game, but this train wreck wants me to feel depressed for nothing.
3198) Big disappointment, didnt match overall expectations.,Definitely not worth 50 hours of my life
3199) When you start with an idea and let your own opinions inform the development of that idea you have art.  When you start with your opinions and assemble a vehicle to show these opinions you have propaganda. This game falls squarely into the latter category.
3200) It's a mixed bad feelings.... I'm just want to know why ? 7 years waiting for this, and that is what I received....sad
3201) **** Abby, I don't care about her and her story, she kill my boy Joel, we must at least give us the option to kill her.,game looks pretty
3202) They ruined the game. Story is terrible. So bad that I literally watched all of on YouTube and saved my money.
3203) Very Bad game don't waste your 60€ on this **** !!!!,,Whoever gave these game high points, the people were paid for by Sony!!!!,,Don't waste your hard earn money
3204) Worst game ever, nobody ask for a horrible character like abby, even worse you are obligated to play with her and hurt Ellie, complete garbage, I didn't finish the game and is the first time that something like that happened.
3205) Piece of ****,Just ruined one of the best stories of all time in game dev history
3206) No pay off at the end Joel death feels undeserved story has one to many plot holes Abby is not a redeemable character to play compared to Ellie gameplay is mediocre at best
3207) When you switch to abby i felt empty inside. Playing as **** villain for 12 hours. Manipulative advertising. Ruining what made the last of us' world good in the first place.
3208) Terrible game with several bugs, I fell in several holes in the game that I had to restart the game and several times the game closed without any warning.  A terrible story without respect for the characters of the first one and an excessively sexual theme.  Money thrown away in that trash!  I HATE Joel's death and the way it happened ... And then playing with the person who killed him is outrageous and revolting
3209) I feel pretty misled by the marketing of this game, luckily I was able to return it. Also it just wasn’t fun to play.,Love & Respect
3210) disappointed plot, disappointed characters, terrible protagonist.  expectations trampled
3211) What can say.. everyone said it.. If the death was like LEE from TWD, or ROST from horizon, or CORTANA, that would be kinda acceptable.,,But this trash? i better watch got s8,,BUT THIS? ILLOGICAL STORYLINE, GIMME MY 60 BACK
3212) They ruined an incredible story and destroyed amazing characters. I wish I never wasted 25 hours of my life on this. Could not be more disappointed.
3213) Wow played this game for 45 minutes and then turned it off. This is due to the blatant identity politics on show totally ruining the game and destroying everything that made the first game so good. For the first time in nearly 40 years of buying games I genuinely want a refund.,Feels like i have had 50 quid stolen from me it is that bad.,DONT buy this game if you enjoyed the first one,You naughty Nawty Dog
3214) Force us to sympathize with Abby even though she bashed Joel’s head in. Worst game ever
3215) I don't believe they destroyed the entire franchise just to push a political agenda. Lack of story, lack of character development, outdated gameplay. I truly regret buying this game, I'll try refund.
3216) ALL NPC LIVES MATTER!！,ALL NPC LIVES MATTER!！,ALL NPC LIVES MATTER!！,ALL NPC LIVES MATTER!！,ALL NPC LIVES MATTER!！
3217) Story sucked complete and utter ass but the graphics and gameplay weren't too bad. Those things don't matter though if the story sucks though...
3218) 1 was god, 2 is garbage. Shame on Nauphty dog. Joel and Ellie do not deserve this.
3219) Graphics and animations are really good, it's really amazing how they achieved this on the console.,,I rewatched trailers many times while waiting for release...,,But the story and characters are way too bland, which makes playing it really boring.,,Don't waste your money on this if you still can.
3220) Overall quality is ok. 6/10.,-6 for stupid media review and ridiculous story:,What is your problem naughty dog?
3221) Great graphics,Gameplay from 2013,Trash story they massacred old characters to push New characters that no one cares about
3222) This game is an abomination, it's straight disrespectful to the first game. They **** killed Joel not even 2 hours in by a **** trap and then forced her on us to make us like her. And not mention the **** writer based a character on himself and he made us sit through a scene where he haves sex with the trap. And and not to mention the **** writing ever, **** this game **** the writer and **** ign for trying lying to their fans because naughty dog bribed rhemnaughty dog bribed them
3223) Shame on directors They chose worse way to tell a story Just put any stupid things they want,And mixed it together What a dumb
3224) If I wanted these kind of scenes, I would watch Hollywood movies or x videos.
3225) Music 8,Graphics 3,Main story 1,Gameplay 1,---------------------------------------------------,Good music.,Very old graphics, nothing new.,Very very boring story.,Very boring gameplay.
3226) Man I just love when sjw **** is shoved into a game, essentially ruining it. The story and character development are absolutely ****
3227) Ruined my life,The story is dog **** and the gameplay is impacted by it.,Playing as Abby is cheap and absurdly obnoxious
3228) Awful. Just awful.,Don't buy the game.,They make the game for you and you can control them with your money.,If you order steak and you get pile of s***, you would buy it?
3229) This game is a trash game that is embedded in the idea of PC,Don't spend time on this game, but spend some useful time playing other games.,garbage game
3230) I really loved Joel and Ellie. The Last of us part one was the best game i ever played. I cried playing that game. Last of us Part 2 is a major letdown. Utter garbage. Character assassination. Stupid identity politics. Naughty Dog is dead to me.
3231) Due to the forced narratives at work, disgraceful send-off of one of the best MCs, being forced to play as the one that brutally killed him, and the heaping doses of "wokeness" far in excess of safe consumption. I'll elaborate. I cannot say with any confidence that the gameplay makes up for the insulting narrative thrown in for absolutely no discernible reason beyond cheap points to widen appeal why such plots we forced in which ruins the relatively simple, yet beautiful plot that the former game had. We went from that to this equivalent to a rebellious teen wanting to piss off their parents.,,In a story-driven game there's no place for whatever the heck this game attempts to be. Hard pass from me and I couldn't recommend anyone but this insult. The fact that only IGN JP rated thus below a 9/10 tells how many reviewers didn't care to actually review this dumpster fire. I hate to say they got paid to give it a stellar score but there's really no other justification other than keeping Sony happy.,,Tl;Dr don't buy, let it die.
3232) The game is endlessly boring. The plot is frankly secondary and uninteresting.
3233) fucc u naughty dog u bstard sony succ and this worst game ever dont think u pay reviewer and got a big influence i demmand a refund fucc u
3234) Big fan of the first part... but this ist just crap and pure waste of money and time.
3235) Terrible story telling compared to the first one. If you want to play a good zombie game I’d recommend days gone over this garbage the game play actually got worst then the first one.
3236) TLOU 1 was one of my most favourite games of all time, this game is the complete opposite. The story is absolutely terrible and feels like it was written by a 5-year-old. The gameplay is boring and slow at it's best, this game's gameplay houses no enjoyment. This game has nothing to offer outside pretty looks and is a disgrace to the series.
3237) its a beutiful game but grafics its not everything its have a boring history and almost not enemys in map.,another naught dog decceciopnat game,,joel died
3238) Even pong has a better storyline then this trash. I mean the media reviews are only positive because they get paid to say so.  Turning out something like this is shameful and knowing the industry, this will win game of the year.
3239) You Break the story and the game. You don't know What is The last of us. And that's not about hate homosexuals, people of a different color, or women. We like them. It's about you made a **** story!!!!!!!!!!
3240) Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby Abby
3241) Absolute **** game Waited 7 years for this absolute pile of dog**** wtf whole game is centred around getting revenge and at the end the main villain is let go
3242) Great graphics and gameplay.  Absolutely horrible story writing.  The characters and their decision making are unbelievably bad. It's like it was written in a way just to spit in the face of the fans and cause outrage.  To be clear I'm not even talking about all the LGBTQ threads that seem almost forced into the narrative, which I don't have an issue with.,Fans don't always have to agree with decisions made in a story, but when it's done in such a horrific and meaningless way, the writers have endured most will never support anything from this studio or with these writer's names attached to it again.  At the end of the day the fans are the ones who pay to play and support games and this game does a great disservice to not only them, but the original work.  0/10 because not even the graphics and gameplay can't redeem such a bad storyline.
3243) Naughty dog's 30 years reputation and all the dev's 7+ years of hard work had been used to be the stepstone of Neil Druckman's ambition for fame and money by writing an arrogant trash story, shame on you. This is the worst story I have ever met in my entire gaming life.
3244) Complete distraction, nothing more.,As the main feature of Last of Us was a story - now this story is very bad.,When you see how f****st ideology was implemented in scenario, in characters - you see the actual result. You have non-evolving characters, non-interesting gameplay ( gameplay did not evolve from first game), absense of characters motivation in most of cases.,When you see this game, you just think "It could be a masterpiece. But now... this is politics".
3245) Anyone that gives this game a good score must have NOT played the first game! How they took Joel completely out of character to push an agenda is just shameful. Who would even want to play as a villain that took out a beloved character! I have very little positive to say for this game...the graphics are great that is something, but this game is a story driven game, it could have been in 8 bit graphics and still been a good game IF the story was comparable to the first game! Garbage, Shame on Naughty Dog!
3246) Naughty dog absolutely ruined this franchise, i loved Last of Us part 1 and seeing what happened to it makes me sad.,Awful game compared to it's predecessor.
3247) Other games,Fanboys : "You have to finish the game!",,TLOU part2,Fanboys have to finish the game.
3248) I can't believe we waited 7 years for some of the worst writing in video game history. Horrible from start to finish. Please give me my time back.
3249) Wow that ending was not satisfying. You mean to tell me she watched a parental figure die in front of her, traveled through seattle risking her life, got her fingers bitten off for what a revenge is not good story. Wtf what kind of children do you have writting this! Dissapointing.
3250) The story sucks, the characters suck.. The only thing good is how it looks.. Don't give money to this people
3251) Let's be honest. This is not the worst game. But because of the venality of all gaming journalists, the public has to somehow degenerate their discontent. They would give an adequate assessment and people would react normally. And so the game is 5-6 / 10, at least I got some pleasure from it.
3252) The history has no sense, bad game, without a good history there has no reason to play it.
3253) Joel didnt deserve this, abbey is the worst character created in tlou. I stopped playing the game when you control abbey. The story is forced and Im really disappointed.
3254) The Last of Us Part 2 tries much to hard to be inclusive of everyone, nothing done in the first game matters and certain areas are so confusing that tutorials are required for most players.
3255) just save your money poor story, unreal unrealistic characters, repetitive stuff and damn no logic... must say the graphic was amazing and huge shoutout to art devs but this game is about storytelling and about the hope the apocalipse but damn.... what a waste of time
3256) Disclaimer: I have nothing against diversity representation in video games. However, I do profoundly criticize a bad story line.,,The Last of Us Part II is the epitome of everything that is wrong while building a game story line. What rightfully annoys people the most is that they hag a great but completely obliterate it with this "sequel". The story is boring, lazy, rushed, and without any development whatsoever in characters or plots. The focused on enforcing a scheme of ideologies rather than develop an intricate and interesting story line for each of the characters. They tried so hard so be "political correct" that they ended up with a product that lack of logic and sense. They did bad to the LGBT community in this case. They could have created a well-told story line for the romance between Dina & Ellie, could have explained more about the journey between Ellie & Joe, could have better introduce the new characters but not, they decided to rushed everything and ended up with an unpolished and mediocre product.,,Naughty Dog deserves nothing but contempt from the gaming community.
3257) Game is fairly boring. Honestly don't see what the big deal is.  Can't bring myself to play anymore.
3258) To follow up one of, if not the greatest game of all time with a generic revenge plot is a disgrace to the video game industry. Besides that the dialog is laughable, gameplay is bland, characters are 1 dimensional, and the lay out of the game is like jeremy bearimy
3259) Trash. Save your 60 bucks. 20 hours of SJW narratives push down your throat and the end has no payout what so ever.
3260) This **** evil **** insult the last of us, and insult all the people who like the last of us at the same time. Even LGBT doesn't like this game, how dare you?????
3261) Pay attention folks. This game is the latest example of how SJW liberal lefty loser want to destroy our precious stories and mythologies. They do it in a manner that is maximum disrespect to the fans. This game is the worst trash I've ever played! The way they destroyed all the character development from the first game make me go insane.  DO NOT PAY FOR THIS GARBAGE!
3262) A purely secondary game. The fruit of the sick imagination of the main producer.  this game will trample everything that was dear to you in the first part.
3263) Beautiful animation and graphics doesn't have matter when gameplay with terrible AI, mechanics from 2008 and "story" when characters are just good animated dolls
3264) There is no connection between the last of us part 1 and 2,Soooo much bad story and all of this for no reason
3265) Wack story, wack gameplay, game ending. Everything about this game trash except for graphics. The game looks pretty but it's inside is unnecessary mess.
3266) This is game is PURE TRASH. BiGOts dOnT LikE FemALe ChARactErs, mUh FeMAlE LeAD 10/10. FFS FUCC THE FUCC OFF. This game is STRAIGHT garbage, you cant defend it. Neil **** should be banned from any game project in the futre, ffs. WHAT A **** the way they **** a marvelous franchise just for a agenda pushing, ffs. What should you expect from somehow who LISTENS to Anita Sharkeesian, what is the result? ruining a wonderful game. When will they learn: WE DONT WANT FORCED POLITICS IN GAMES, GOD. Seriously I was considering buying a PS4 just for this game, and guess what? I fing wont, i shall NEVER buy any naughty **** game. They will find a way to even ruin crash. God, when will this torture end? We just want to enjoy a game without thinking about an agenda. This game sold well, but it wont me remembered, people wont keep talking how nice this game was after 7 years. This game shall die in a year or less. GG naughty dog, g fing g
3267) Nice visual aesthetics. Terrible plot, storytelling, and extremely annoying characters.
3268) SWJ Bs.,I really did not expect such a poor story after all these years of waiting
3269) If there is no plot in this game, then I will give 8.5 points, but because there is a game writer and Abby, I can only give 0 points. This is like a delicious ice cream, but it is added with **** and it is also forced The media in the world told you that this ice cream is super delicious. Before you eat it, you won’t know that it has spit on it. It’s really disgusting.
3270) The character's are all stupid now better go kill everyone except the one who kills my father
3271) Made an account just to express the disconnect between the studio and it's fans. This game is just a money fueled neil **** fetish dream.
3272) The game is a **** I waited 7 years for this **** storyline. Please. I feel sorry for everyone wasted 60 bucks on it, me included. Trailers hook you up and make you really wanna playing it immediately when it comes out. That happens and damn! Joel is dead!! It’s fine, but don’t humiliate him like that with a gulf club!! The guy, for god’s sake, survived 20 years and couldn’t even fight back even for one bit. Let him throw a punch at least. What’s worse is the flashbacks. I mean you made it worse guys. There is a lot of issues with flashbacks I don’t feel good talking about, but at the very end when Ellie couldn’t let go, travel to the California leaving Dina and “potato” as she put it to seek revenge. Then don’t go through it, gets back to nothing. This is ****,Making me play as Abby so I can feel sorry for her?! Well, I don’t. Her father was black in the first game and in the second one he turned white!! Wow! I guess  It is what it is!!
3273) If story matters to you in games, DO NOT BUY! Gameplay is nice but story is plain awful.
3274) If the story in a story game sucks, but everything else could be perfect the game would still suck. Use this for TLOU2 but without everything else is perfect.
3275) They ruined a beautiful masterpiece...,This is not the last of us.,This is a game for teenagers with the most disgusting sex scenes i just want to vomit thank you naughty dog ! I hope your studios burns all,And the death of joel seriously !!!!!! How can joel die like this ?! Joel can't trust anyone he didn't even trust ellie in the first game so how can he follow mysterious peoples ?! This is not joel this is a bad writing,Naughty dog did a very bad error on this!
3276) Agenda driven garbage!!They had to tick all the sjw boxes!! Story is terrible and a disgrace
3277) I spend 500$ for ellie edition and 2 and a half hours was enough to drop the game.I wish someone had warn me.This game is unplayable 0
3278) This game is a shame on every possible way , lot of bugs and gliches , and the terrible history and plot , save 60$ don t buy
3279) Why?  Waste of time and money!  Just a sad attempt by Naughty Dog.  Can't stand the social criticism interjected into the first 2 hours of the game.  Horrible!  Let me say that again...Horrible and waste of time and $$$$!
3280) really didn’t  like the second half of the game!  especially the part where you had to play for Abby.
3281) Any game that makes me play AGAINST Ellie is a bad game.  Don't care about the story, but don't make me play against a beloved character just because you feel like it's good writing and plot twists...
3282) This game is a totally disappointment. I was hoping something better. The history is a deception.
3283) The story is crap you cannot kill a main character just like that and end it like it never happend no if this game is about revenge then show it f the other part of the story about abby and his f.friends no one gives a sht about them this game just killed itself
3284) 7 years you sons of b*******. f*** you all i wasted 20 hours of my life watching that stupid F******* GAME I FORCED MY SELF TO WATCH IT BECAUSE I THOUGHT IT WILL GET BETTER. I HATED EVERY SINGLE MINUTE. EXCEPT ELLIE'S BIRTHDAY FLASHBACK. THE BEST 10 MINUTES IN THE GAME
3285) Graphics: 4.5, Combat: 4.0, Story -9.0. Great ingredients. A messy output. So impressed. If anyone around me wants to play this game, I'll tell them it's a waste of money and time.
3286) the worst writing ever. I don't know whos idea was to add that chick as a writer but it seems that she ruined everything.
3287) Ruining the setting of previous episode, worst PR,haven't been that disappointed before
3288) OMG!! Never, ever played worst game on my whole life!! 7 yers waiting for this game!! I am depressed right now!!!
3289) Another forced "inclusive" game. Bad story, predictable end and mediocre graphics. Don't waste your money and buy somethig better, like Cory in the white house.
3290) Disappointing, Story bad, No character development , The first one is way better
3291) Soyny is actively encouraging developers to pump out abominations such as this.  You would have to be a complete idiot to want a PS5 at this point.  Neil Druckmann is a fig.  Get woke, go broke!
3292) I’m convinced the writers of the first game have mysteriously disappeared. I refuse to believe The Last of Us 2 is made from the same people that made the original. That’s how bad this is. The story (which was the best thing about the original) makes the game unplayable in the sequel. Couldn’t be more unsatisfied.
3293) Worst game in a while I've played. I wish I could get my money back. Ellie is minority, so what? Who cares what she does in bed, but what I do care about is that they have to build this POS revolving around that and shove it down our throats. + They killed Joel like F-tier side character
3294) The force of a new unknown character with certain agenda to kill the most loved character in the first two hours of the game and then play as that character, like seriously??!! This games was about horror and zombies, now its about idk what to call this..
3295) This is a shame, such a wait for this...the story is a disgrace to the original and its meaninglessly infused with politics,,Dissapointed, don't buy this game.
3296) Wow what can I say. Only good thing they did was graphics. I am so happy my friend let me borrow his game. I wouldn't even pay $10. They did such a pour job with character development and story. Plus they keep pushing this progressive agendas. I hope it was worth it Naughty Dog.
3297) Maybe The **** Game I Have Ever Watched In My Life.,Shame On You Naughty Dog.
3298) can we agree that this game has the worst script ever?,it's really really bad, there's nothing in this **** story that can be used,horrible, terrible, makes me want to throw up,you are forced to play with this abby and force you to empathize with her story and all you can feel is hate
3299) You want to have sex with female gorilla who is a stupid, crazy killer?  If yes,  you will love this **** game.
3300) Just here to help let people know how terrible this game is. Cant begin to tell you how bad. Get woke go broke.
3301) Forced inclusion only served to promote hatred, appalling history, and blatant cultural appropriation, all wrong.
3302) Waste of money, didnt stop pushing their agenda and the gameplay isnt even fun wouldn't recommend under any circumstances. Also Unnecessary sex scene is unnecessary.
3303) They killed Joel and my love for this franchise. I was so excited for this game.. the first one is still my favorite game ever. I wish I could return it.
3304) Overpriced and ridiculously expensive.,the game went from apocalyptic survival to gay porn movie
3305) This game is and will be the most **** one ever in the game history. The time being spent right now to write this review should be considered unworthy and waste, but still I am writing, because as many as people should know how this game is. I will never play any games released from Naughty Dog. You want to be "naughty"? Play this game!
3306) This is my first time ever leaving a review, I made this account just to post this because this game is that bad. The Last of us 2 has been absolutely destroyed by the bad story writing and these writers don't care about the fans or respect the game at all. Also do not trust the critic reviews because they aren't a true reflection of this game, go watch real opinions from youtube gamers and true fans of the series. I am so disappointed with what happened to this game, not because of the LGBTQ direction in it or the female characters being lead, but because of the terrible terrible story. Also because of the fact I have to play as a character I hate for 10 hours. Please save your money and please do not support these writers.
3307) I thought Naughty dog did great the gameplay felt refreshing compared to the first game the story was a bit over the place but honestly, I thought it was brilliant, it made us witness that everything has consequences and other lives matter and just not the main protagonist. This is an amazing game I highly recommend this if your into action-adventure/ horror survival games 10/10
3308) Amazing graphics, great acting and decent gameplay, but all of that is meaningless with bad dialogue, awful storytelling and a subpar handling of character growth and development.
3309) I just want to say the story is a little bit garbage. Some say it's akin to a look inside the deeply disturbed minds, do yourself a favor and skip this game. Well after checking this fact with my own eyes, I totally agree.
3310) I,m so confused. I copleted game 5 mins ago. Game looks great, naughty dog did great work, but... Storyline destroy this hard work into pieces. Killing Joel at start  was hard piece to take. After 7 years of waiting for this game, naughty dog turned all haraxters from firt part into disgusting abominations,I felt like someone who didnt saw first part started to write a storyline for this game. That wasnt the same characters like from first part. U destroyed this universum, killed all characters, befor u did it i in the game. I feel cheated. I regret buing this game. I feel like someone spit in my face. U murdered this game. I want to cry when i saw the end, not bc it was moving, but because i had to see a falling of tgis game. Only making a third part could fix anything, but im not sure that it wont looks like  this part.  Abdoming this universum with this terrible end would be unforgivable
3311) The only good thing is the graphics and the sound. The story is an insult to the intelligence of the users and a whim of Neil Druckman. A total disappointment.
3312) very bad, boring, the mechanics are very bland, predictable and forced, everything seems to be on rails. the plot seeks to be "new" and inclusive. but it is more frivolous than the classic ones.
3313) Nice graphics and gameplay, fell short in comparison to the first game, in my opinion.
3314) This game is not bad, it worse than bad, I would rate it 1, but I hate sjw so I rate 0.
3315) Disgusting game made by disgusting people.,Listing few of the sins in the game:,,-They have succesfully butchered every single,beloved character from the first game.,-Inserted disgusting anal sex scene between two men to the game,-Forcing you to play as abby and forced to experience his story. He is a terrible character,and the game tries to justify his actions,-Gameplay is the same boring stuff from the first game with no improvements,-They twisted the chemistry between the characters Ellie now hates Joel, wtf?,-Jewish propaganda and reminding the player about HOLOCAUST in the middle of post apocalyptic setting. WTF,,Truly a masterpiece among bad games. Jesus christ. DO NOT BUY THIS.,*THEY REMOVED MY REVIEW* *THIS DAMAGE CONTROL MAKES YOU LOOK BAD METACRITIC!*
3316) I don't wanna get LGBT propaganda from games I love. Please, don't make such mistakes again.
3317) The point of games is to have fun, not push agendas. Also having to play Joel's killer right after his death, was a slap in the face.
3318) Great graphics and gameplay, but if you are a last of us fan, this games story will ruin everything for you. And from a game where the story matters the most, it's a big disappointment
3319) People are salty, that this is not written the way they wanted, but i love it for it.I never felt as conflicted in a best way possible.
3320) I expected the same strong story as in the first part. Unfortunately, I have not received this. The rest for me in this game is not important, although the graphics and atmosphere are 10/10. But the overall rating is low due to history.
3321) This story is written by a child , Idc about the graphics or the gameplay I play this game just for the story and it's so horrible
3322) لا انصح بهذه اللعبة لانها بها شذوذ جنسي واخلاق سيئة يتم تعليمها وغرسها في الاطفال والشباب,I do not recommend this game because it has homosexuality and bad morals that are taught and instilled in children and youth
3323) Joel's Death made no sense and the ending either the whole story didn't really make sense and it went away of what it did right in the first game
3324) A bunch of dumb hate for the sake of hate, illogical characters and their motivation. Just nonsense, not a game.
3325) I threw my time on the ground.,This game is the worst disaster of the year.,Next time, I don't buy the Naughty Dog game anymore
3326) **** story. **** story **** story **** story **** story. **** story **** story **** story **** story. **** story **** story **** story **** story. **** story **** story **** story **** story. **** **** story. **** story **** story **** story **** story. **** story **** story **** story **** story. **** story **** story **** story  story. **** story **** story **** **** story. **** story **** story **** story **** story. **** story **** story **** story **** story. **** story **** story **** story  **** story. **** story **** story **** story **** story. **** story **** story **** story  **** story **** story **** story. **** story **** story **** story
3327) Save your money, this game is trash. I have no problem with gameplay or graphics of game, but the story is so bad.
3328) On its own this game would have been maybe a 3 because the plot was like something written by an edgy high school student. But having the nerve to be a sequel to such a great game makes it so much more insulting.
3329) THIS is ALL THe Fukcing SHt god damn fukcing dog go to hell all garbage things. I just feel pain allways,It just will be deleted this world
3330) Gamer Gate 2020,,Video game journalists are clearly a cancer in our hobby. Zero negative reviews? Out of almost 100 at the time of writing. They’re either paid to write propaganda selling this trash or so blinded by their own ideology they’ll write anything that furthers their twisted goals even if it damages their already tenuous credibility.,,Strengthen yourself stop reading game journalism find a YouTuber whose gotten it right in the past and trust their opinion. They may not get it right every time but clearly with such bias infesting our genre it’s safer to go with the public then these cancerous fake news toads.,,The game itself has clearly got some incredible graphics ultimately however it's a polished turd wrapped up in a egocentric writer's fantasy. Zero character development compared to the original and a gameplay loop that's repetitive with poor AI (stealth is completely broken).,,0/10 - Save your money
3331) Ever bought something to fell bad? This game does exactly that.,For me, the story is incredibly unsatisfying, the ending is even worse.
3332) Awful. Franchise ruiner. They ruined a perfectly good ending in an attempt to make a very politically correct sequel that would cash in on the the first games success. Clearly the fan base has rejected this game in every way. The professional reviewers must have been paid quite handsomely to give it a the scores it got.
3333) Makes me feel bad about the part of ND team that did a great job when it comes to presentation... but sadly, their tremendous work was in vein, this is unplayable, pointless chore filled with lgbt cringe.  I own 700+ of playstation games, all ND games included, since first Crash on PSX, but this... makes me want to quit gaming.  Refund.
3334) the plot is embarrassing. Naughty dog deceived us selling this game as a joel-ellie story, but it's nothing like this.  they joked us
3335) The game had pretty graphics. Game-play is slightly better than it was 8 years ago, but the story is utter garbage. The game forces you to do terrible things, and play as people you utterly hate. I find the story appalling to put it mildly.
3336) I applied for an account to comment on this game, in order to let the public understand that this game is bxllshxt and then its production company and the SJW should go to hell
3337) game is good but what the **** is this ending we waited 5 years for this and what the ****
3338) All the major plot-points in the previous game has been abandoned and now the game is nothing like the previous one, but rather a festival of forced content.
3339) Really nice visual and music, but so stupid story, so stupid characters, worst ending ever. Who wrote this scenario? You're really dumb, sry, don't do it never again, pls. Game-play is not rly interesting, you do same thing while all this fng game. So fng bad. 10 years of nothing, hype for nothing.
3340) Its terrible. so long game cant contain only wiht anime content. autor thinks tnat we are so stupied
3341) What a joke... Another title wasted in order to amuse sjw cults. Honestly, where is humanity going?
3342) I copied this review from a user named Jeremy Maillet who commented on google review because I agree with all his points and have the same opinion. *SPOILERS AHEAD*,,The positive reviewers like to act like they are making good points when arguing why Joel was meant to die. No one disagrees Joel deserved to die, he was never established as a morally good character and he made a selfish decision which condemned the human race. No one is angry Joel died we are angry about how he died. My take on this would be much different if we were introduced to Abby long before she brutally murders Joel. They set them self up with an insurmountable task of creating empathy for Abby. And they didn't even try, we got a ten minute scene where she saves a Zebra with her father then they reveal Abby is the person who convinced them Ellie should be murdered to save humanity. If the writers are trying to make the player empathize with Abby why would they establish her as the one who condemned Ellie which inevitably led to Joel killing her father?,,Later on in the story we are introduced to Lev who saves Abbys life.  This prompts Abby to betray the wolves to save Lev. This decision of Abbys feels like a fruitless attempt by the writers to establish Abby as a morally good character in order to gain empathy from the audience. They're trying to define Abby as selfless contrary to her making numerous selfish decisions. It's hard to say anything for certain about Abby's character because every other decision is conflicting. One moment she is selfless the next she is selfish. When it comes to condemning Ellie her morals are for the good of the many but when it comes to saving Lev her morals are for the good of the few. She gets very angry when she finds out Ellie has killed her friends yet she's already betrayed these friends and was prepared to leave these friends behind to help Lev.,,The story overall is nonsensical and revolves around and characters literally abandoning and losing everything in a fruitless quest for revenge. Both Abby and Ellie quite literally sacrificed everything over avenging the deaths of two people in a world where everyone has lost someone. Death and violence is around almost every corner of this world. Yet for whatever reason these two people are so special our characters travel thousands of miles killing hundreds to enact their revenge. Even after watching the bond which is formed between Joel and Ellie in the first game I have a hard time believing that Joel's death was enough to bring on this murderous rampage. Especially after Joel and Ellie’s rough relationship has been established.,,This world isn't the same world we were put into in the first game. There is no hope in this world, there is only violence and sadness. The violence is so over the top that by the end of the game I was completely numb to it all. The game heavily relies on shock value that was brought about through overly violent and grotesque actions perpetrated towards beloved characters which was so overly used it left me feeling nothing when the game came to it's final conclusion and this mattered the most.  At no point were we given any sort of relief or loving character development which gave us respite from the sadness and violence of this world previously. In the first game Ellie provided 90% of this relief from the awful world we were witnessing. But she is now a shadow of her former self, despite spending her years safe and sheltered in a settlement with electricity she has completely lost the spark we saw in the first game. The conclusion of the game is hollow, hundreds die in this needless revenge plot and one singular person being saved who the player has established no empathy for is supposed to bring meaning to all the meaningless violence.
3343) They should change the title to "the last of straight people...",Too much...
3344) Its just trash, listen to the player, not the company. the company basically bribed by naughty dogs to give them good review, but the player review it by their own experience playing the game. dont waste your money buying this **** better buy other game.
3345) Unfortunate game with nonsense that gamer's are turned off by, agenda is crammed down our throats, and its not appreciated. Games journalists aren't buying your games, we are, so maybe treat us with some respect.
3346) The last of gays It's really terrible game I don't like it ,,Don't buy this game.
3347) Idiot story how they start the game how the killed joel how the finished the game with not killing abby **** this game they ****ed up in this part and i think the game is done and all we can do is remmber that there is only part 1 from this game exist.
3348) Some scenes are written by 12 years kid , didn't like the sexual scenes,  n how joel died by a golf bat, simply a disaster.
3349) Wow! What the f*** is going on naughty dog? I am a xbox fan but not one of thoes haters. I ate part1's story. But what happened to part 2? The story s**ks! Charecters do strange things and you will say to yourself: why? And no answer. No answer to a single question. A complete story failure. This 95 is only for gameplay, graphics, sound and etc. The story is 0 or at last 3 from 10. This game dosen't deserve 0 but I am giving it show the anger of such a failure.
3350) It’s getting so annoying watching franchises destroy stories. First Star Wars sequel trilogy, Then  game of thrones and now this. Worst part is these franchises are my favorite. Do people not care? I don’t understand. I would put so much heart into these franchises if I was given the opportunity. Makes me depressed about the world we live in.
3351) Yo I'm not even a fan of the series but **** this Abby character. Jesus Christ, what were you thinking Naughty Dog? Nobody wants to play as a badly written **** of a character which kills the main character from the last game in the most unceremonious and disgusting way possible. I hope people mass refund this **** and it ends up as a flop, you deserve a wake up call, not your fans...
3352) This game is the definition of disgrace and disrespect. The worst kind of sequel where it tries so hard to grab you with the emotions that you felt with the original just so that it can slap you, more precisely spit you in the eye for doing so even though there is nothing that this abomination has other than horrible ideologies and undisquised political agendas. Shame on Naughty Dog workers or anyone who had the guts to work on this.,Many will protect this game beacus of the production values, the graphics, face animations. They are good as much as you cant expect from a triple A title, but how far will it take you in a game where all the characters are empty and blend to the point where you feel like none of this matters to you anymore. This event is the perfect presentaion of an author in crisis, all the negative reviews will represent that.,Stay strong my fellow fans of the original in these dark times!
3353) Just pure trash what can i say...,Like other users , i been waiting for long time. Such a disappoointed and disturbing story
3354) Good gameplay but bad story has ruined the game. I wish I could never play this game.
3355) The biggest disappointment in my gaming live .,This and halo 5.I really hope to be a Lou 3 and Ellie just wakes from a bad dream....:
3356) Thanks for letting me watch the sex scene with my kids in the room. I dont like having to explain why it's 2 guys and not a straight couple.
3357) Just think about: in  first game you have a purpose to save the humanity from the pandemic but the second one all was about revenge ( with extremely blood and gore and awkward sex scenes)
3358) Thanks for saving me 60$ The first last of us is top 3 out of all games I have ever played tlou2 is a kiss ass far left antifa feminist propaganda inspired steamy ****
3359) I have been waiting this game for years and this is the result... It really disappointed me.
3360) stop propaganda lgbt sheet in games!!,stop propaganda lgbt sheet in games!!
3361) Search Results,Neil Druckmann, You kill the story at all! You kill everyone in last of us
3362) Just not good as the predecessor and is more of a message than a story, r.i.p naughty dog :(
3363) GUYS! what a nonsense? Yesterday the score was 3.4!,We must LOWER it, not raise it.,These propaganda pigs will not understand anything if the assessment is positive!
3364) If you loved the first and value the characters in this game I suggest you leave this game with the ending you got the first time around or you'll regret it
3365) Political Right contents too much，make people feel sick.Used to be a great game.
3366) Pure political agenda trash, just nope nope nope nope nooooooooooooooooooooo
3367) perkin,Jun 19, 2020,Worst story ever!!! Some results are not unacceptable, but the process of reaching it is too rough! In addition, part of the gameplay experience is also very bad. The open world design and some unnecessary stories really affect the game rhythm. I want to sleep several times during the game. Colla
3368) Take everything you loved about the first game throw it out the window. Neil absolutely butchered one of the best games of the decade.
3369) This game is complete trash, they are lucky they have $ony to create these nice animations, textures and graphics. Props to the voice actors they did an amazing job. Aside from all that, the story is dumpster fire, dumb plot holes everywhere, terrible pacing, characters are all throwaway, gameplay is abusable and archaic, level design is boring and uninspiring. WTF happened to this game?,,I feel bad for Final Fantasy VII Remake getting all the flak. That game completely takes a dump on this pos.
3370) It's literally just propaganda, brave new world crap. The game itself is about as average as the first, but the story is straight up propaganda. Very creepy game. Watch a lets play to see what kind of art you'll be getting in the next 20 years from this social justice book burning culture, or lack there of.  Truly this is a work of psychopathy and the authoritarian mindset of radical leftists.
3371) I would like to give a half price for the great display of the game. But I don't want to give even a cent to screenwriter. I can accept joel's death, but I can't accept that I have to control the **** who killed Joel.
3372) The developers did their job pretty well on this but Please dont you dare waste your time on this absolute **** , go for a walk , lose 0-13 on valorant  , Take a massive **** , It'll still be better than this game . I feel very bad that i could've done so much more during the time wasted on this game , So here goes to WHY this game is not worth playing,1) The Story is bad .,2) They should've left this on the first part .,3) The end was so trash ....... I cant even
3373) This game is full of blood, violence, racial discrimination, the most hateful he died in the first place! I'm gonna feed this drama writer a ****
3374) You don’t have to play the game to know that it is a terrible experience to play.
3375) The game is not 0 but it’s not a 10 either. I’ll give it a 4 only for the graphics and some part of the gameplay but the storyline is absolutely horrendous.
3376) You should just Donate $60 instead of buying this game. .. . . . . . .  . . .
3377) In this game no womens with dicks - game total **** will wait for cyperpank
3378) literally a black hole of a plot. from joel's/tommy's/jesse's stupidity to random moments like Abby just happen to pin point joel's location or find a map that guess what leads to Ellie.,Or random mind changes like: oh i want revenge...And then :...oh wait i changed my mind... oh no wait...actually, I am going to kill the person that killed all my friends that i knew for like a decade or so.... and then yet again: oh oh hold on actually this needs to stop i dont want a revenge. And then it repeats twice at the end of the game which leads to a conclusion of everyone just walking away, as if like, oh whatever dud...gotta go home i guess.
3379) Is this game even necesary? The first one was incredible but this game is so unecesary for the actual audience
3380) This game is a disgrace. They disrespected a character we all loved just to write a boring and petty revenge story. Awful.
3381) I just don’t understand. Everyone has been waiting to play this game for years. To play as Joel. Why would they kill their only chance at having the game be a success? Absolute **** Really bad game don’t waste your money.
3382) Abby freaking is jacked. Her arms are as distracting as that guys nose from A Way Out. Her personal trainer must be Chris Redfield from RE5.
3383) The protagonist's establishment and relationship departs aggressively from the first part to present transgender and lesbian agenda, not only ending in a nonsense conclusion but forcing players to accept a "just because" change of paradigm. Other games have handled gay characters, this one just doesn't.
3384) I feel like I was betrayed and stabbed in the back. I cringed in the start, I am half way through the game and still cringing. Each step feels like the knife is being twisted and dugs deep in my heart. The environmental looks good but the pain does not stop. I feel nauseous.
3385) Bad game bad story i can’t believe this is an exclusive game from sony , i am depressed
3386) I screwed up the masterpiece game because of the **** PC guys. Did your mom's uterus get colored by her PC?
3387) I played TLOU part II, and it hurt. this is no hyperbole, it hurt me on the inside to see how they've butchered the story in pursuit of some perceived 'inclusiveness". almost nothing added is meaningful, and when it is, it's for the worse. They killed off Joel worthlessly. his death is done in the most horrible, upsetting way, devoid of any meaning or reason. This is horrible.
3388) I have no words.  For me, the game is terrible.  Of course, the gameplay and image are amazing.  But I loved the game because of the plot.  Why are you making a game for feminists?  Will they buy your game?  I am not pleased when you buy a game, but in it it sucks you because you are a white heterosexual.  And the main question.  Why is Joel in the new part so dumb?  I did not like the game.  I am going to remove it and never install it.  The title of the game of the year was earned not by this game, but by Rd2.
3389) The videogame that Ocasio-Cortez would want you to buy. Pure political propaganda. They have destroyed this saga.
3390) I Hate Neil Druckman!! He **** up my fav series of all time!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
3391) It is the worst game in life. This game should never come out again. It makes the player suffer throughout the game.
3392) Im just disappointed for all this year that I've been waiting for part 2 ,,naughty dog employees should be ashamed of them self's .
3393) Really good looking game, but repetitive and dry story. New characters that are introduced should've just stayed in the idea box. :-)
3394) Trash.,It is the big doodoo.,Story and writing are why you play this game, and they suck. Should’ve just been a movie. With a better writer.
3395) **** for little feminist 12-age girl. Naughty dog, i wish your mind will be attracted
3396) A taboo game should focus in story and feeling you bring is like romantic gay people, f*cking ridiculous
3397) I don't genuinely hate the story. it can be a good story if the storyteller actually think about the characters and the insight in first part. So much hard work ruined, what a shame.,If you consider this a random game without tlou2 title, meh, it aight.
3398) It like game of throne final season,It is ruin your dream and expectation.,Hope you not buy this game. I used to love last of us Franchise and nuagthy dog, now i am not sure.
3399) I waited 7 years for this trash? The developers didn’t learn from Metal Gear Solid 2? They treated this characters with such disrespect. I didn’t have a problem with Ellie being gay. The industry would have had a lesbian heroine we could get behind. Then then you play as Abby to hunt Ellie. Terrible game and a disappointment. Never trusting you again Naughty Dog. Get woke go broke.
3400) Why put a political agenda in a good game to ruin it. And also this is typical Sony style, lots of QTE I sometimes feel am not even playing the game ...
3401) I made an account just for this. Can't believe they did this to us. I should've watched reviews for this game. I really thought I didn't need too because of how great the first one was. Will rethink about purchasing Naughty Dog games from now on.
3402) game play was amazing, graphics are amazing, but the story is **** and there is nothing left in a naughty dog game if the story is ****
3403) It's amazing how majority of the "critics' found this game to be outstanding.,,Hopefully this game doesn't receive GOTY, let alone be even mentioned for it.,,This game is a huge disrespect to all the fans of the previous game.,,I'm sorry but this is just brutal.
3404) Sh*tty gay -m,This does not deserve to be sold. A piece of trash and waste of time. F Naughty dog
3405) Wasted $60 on this garbage. Plot is worse than a porn video. ND should just put out another Uncharted game to fix their reputation.
3406) Such a shame that this was so bad, I can't look at the original in the same way again anymore. Characters were acting out of character a lot and the story was all over the place it did not make much sense overall.,The game looks like the most beautiful game so far though and it looked very realistic but this kind of game most people like it for the story mostly and the story was one of the worst stories told in a video game.
3407) The Last Of Us to me was a classsic! This one is pure garbage beginning to end.
3408) The theme of this game is called hate, which is correct.,The more players play, the more hate they have for this game.,This game basically does not take into account the emotions of the users who played the previous game, and the deliberate story makes it impossible to immerse in the characters.,It's a story game, but you can't be immersed in characters,,and the story is less prone and fun as you go back.,The thought of finishing the game is empty.
3409) Long wait to have a weak story and discard a great character.  Everyone was expecting it, but it was broken after the launch.
3410) Before anyone can whine and say I didn't "roll credits" on this game, let me assure you I did, and I stand by my opinion that The Last of Us Part II is the worst game ever made, from a story standpoint. Gameplay wise, the game is fantastic. The look and feel of everything is almost as great as it was in the first. But you can have the prettiest game, movie, or TV show in the world, and people will still despise it if the story is flawed. And, my God, this has to be one of the most terrible, unredeemable plots in video game history.,***SPOILERS FOLLOW***,Roughly one hour into the game, if that, Joel dies. Okay, many of us were expecting Joel to die in this game, myself included. But it isn't his death, but rather the way it happens.,In the first game, Joel is untrusting of anyone. He knows that there are more people out there in the world who mean him harm than good, and it's better to not engage with them. Yet we open into Joel's impending death with nothing short of a "Howdy, ya'll! My name's Joel!" He's murdered by a newcomer character named Abby, for whom you have no feeling but hatred after what she does. His death is far too brutal, to the point it crosses the bridge into torture porn. I couldn't watch it, and this is coming from someone who enjoys SAW and Hellraiser. And the reasoning behind it? Abby is the daughter of the surgeon Joel killed in the end of the first game.,Ellie witnesses this and vows revenge. Oh, wow, where have I heard that plotline before? Maybe in literally every other revenge tale ever told. How original.,So we have two characters, both on the hunt for revenge after their father/father-figure is murdered. Not starting off good.,After this wretched, sickening scene of Joel's murder, you'll be happy to know you get to play as the ***** who murdered him, as some sort of twisted way to make you empathize with a character who has no redemption aspect. Then it tasks you with NOT getting her killed, as if I have any reason to not run headlong into the nearest Clicker.,In addition to this, there's also another scene of a person witnessing their own mother being murdered.,But the real winner was when the main protagonist, Ellie, kills a pregnant woman. Her revelation that the woman was pregnant is supposed to be traumatic and horrifying, but for what reason other than to make the player want to quit playing is beyond me. Ellie is damaged by not only seeing Joel get his face caved in with a golfclub, but also for inadvertently murdering a pregnant woman. Disturbing is the only word for this kind of story. There are NO redeeming qualities capable of undoing that kind of action.,The entire game tries to be a statement about violence being bad and revenge being badder, as if the players who bought this game are moronic and unaware. We bought a violent video game and they in turn punished us for doing so by killing a character everyone loved. There's far too much effort to make you think, but with an opening like the death of Joel, you deafened the ears of anyone who may have listened to your shlock.,And let's not forget that you, Naughty Dog, did this horrendous act to Joel on Father's Day weekend. A large number of people struggle with this holiday, myself included. I wanted to play this game as a distraction from the memories Father's Day brings up. I had a horrible father. Joel is the dad I always wished I would have had. And you murdered him.,As someone who suffers from crippling depression, this game made me want to die. If I didn't have my new job and hope for the future, this game would have driven me to suicide. It is that bad. I've never had a game make me hate myself for playing it as much as this one did. And right now, in a time when people say they are the most unhappy they've been in decades, you gave everyone a reason to be even sadder. I pray no one is driven to end their own life by your senseless violence, infliction of trauma, and disturbing enjoyment of spitting in the face of fans of the first game, all in the name of "making a statement".,**** you, Naughty Dog, LLC. You ruined not only this game, but its predecessor. You're all a bunch of torturous monsters and I hope your employees sue you for your slave labor tactics to the point you go under like Telltale Games did before you.
3411) accidentally broke the disk after I was forced to play as transgender (?), who killed one of my favourite characters of all time.
3412) hey i have to say the story is horrible they want us to read the story they write but do not care player satisfaction they are selfish and arrogant!
3413) Story make this game minus infinity, other element is quite good. Better dont buy this game
3414) Please.....It was worst game in my life... don’t play this game if you love part one. No probability, no impression, so disappointed, so angry.
3415) My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined.,The plot of the game is terrible and totally unacceptable. A mandatory ending that doesn't give the player a choice.
3416) Worst game of the year.,Disappointed.,Total manipulation of players' throught, you couldn't skip Abby playthrough and continue to play as her while
3417) The most disappointing game of this year... or even this decade. The story is completely nonsense and I can't believe that it is written by Naughty Dog.,,The only selling point of this game is the control and details of the game, but the story still making me sick and I withstand it anymore.
3418) Didnt like the ending, that was definitely the worst part of the game. The gameplay was boring and repetitive too. Immediately got a refund
3419) Incredible visuals and music can't make up for a complete lack of skill in writing. The story is unbelievable, full of plot holes, often depraved in failed attempts at adding shock factor and spits on the legacy of the original. A painful game to experience. Thoroughly disappointed with the story. Gameplay and graphics are the best the PS4 has seen. However the line ‘This can’t be nothing’ is literally not true. Once you’ve finished it it literally has been for nothing! SAVE YOUR MONEY
3420) Never have i ever had to write a review about a game i have not finished myself, i tryed to stomach the game but i rly couldnt do it after i had to chase Ellie down with Abby, i decided to look for the end on the internet to help me get the emotional courage to push through it and reach that closure but what i found out is that there is no closure. The game was said to not be for everyone and i agree but the problem is that if u have played the first game i dont think u will be able to enjoy the second one.,How NG tought it would be able to make u like Abby as a character is beyond belief and just show how amateur they were about this game. But then again it can be that NG rly didnt want that and trully just wanted to give u a bitter game experience with no fun and only pain, when i play a game i do it to feel better be it because its fun, hearth warming, interesting or any other reason that can leave me smiling after a game session and even if i get frustrated after i lose i can just try again and win. With the last of us 2 there is no wining, only rage.,Play it if u havent played the first one or u just dont have the emotional bound with the first one's characters otherwise i recommend u play the first one again and forget about the part 2.
3421) the first game was a real joy. I couldn't believe a game could be as good as a movie plot-wise.,it's a shame they decided to use the new game as a vehicle for spreading the globalist political agenda. but at least with all those 100/100 reviews, it exposed the system 1 more time
3422) This game was absolutely atrocious for me while I didn't run into glitches of any kind on my playthrough, I did run into the problem of the story being some of the absolute worst writing I've ever seen  just throwing away main and crucial characters for no other reason than, eh you why not, I cannot even begin to tell you how pissed I was to have spent $60 on what will likely be my most hated game for years to come
3423) Terrible. Just bloody terrible. Neil has wrecked this game and franchise. What a disappointment.
3424) Garbage, virtue signaling bs. A complete waste of money and a horrible continuation of what was a great first installment.
3425) Horrible story !!!!! Absolute waste of time and money !!!!! The only good thing is the graphics.
3426) **** game **** absolutely bad ugly **** chicken **** why do you make such games like **** **** as ****
3427) Overated asf The last of us II < Red Dead redemption II................ i spent all my money on this **** just to play the last of us 1.5.
3428) Disappointing, fav character joel got a death worse than dog, then i am forced to play as the character of his killer. What the f***. People in online saying this getting bad reviews due to homophobia, its not actually that, it is the fact that story writers played with emotions and did hazy work. How can ellie spare abby after everything Joel did for her? They could have given us the option to kill or spare at least. also promoting women empowerment is ok, but why ALL the 4 most important characters are women?? at least 1 man should have been there?? :O The critics are surely paid, otherwise the story doesn't deserve even a 1 star. Graphics and gameplay is really good, the story is the most important thing.
3429) **** plot kills any immersion and erase any positive sides around it. Cant believe it happened
3430) F****g l e s b i a n s. spitting in the face to fans, advertising of unconventional values
3431) this game its poop this final its **** pooop this game its bad bad bad i **** this game
3432) Honestly most dissapointing game of the generation for me. I saw the leaks but still wanted to go in open minded and enjoy the game for what it has to offer. While the gameplay is ok and the grafics are good everything about the story turned out to be even worse than exspected. First time being dissapointed with ND. I really don't get how all those reviewers brought this game up to a 95.
3433) this is the dumbest thing that could happen to this game. give a damn about those who buy this game!  keep your tolerance with you!  players do not need it!!!!!!!
3434) What a piece of **** game. Im selling it on offer up asap. The disappointment will fade once ghost of tsushima comes out
3435) Why am i suffering from this, such a bad story telling and kill my favorite character, i thought i was watching walking dead
3436) **** story **** story **** story **** story **** story **** story **** story **** story
3437) The story is illogical. Motives of the characters are incomprehensible. First part was great, this one is... I was playing Fallout 76 more than this.
3438) Horrible agenda pushing crap. Sensationalist sjw points does not equal normalisation.
3439) A beloved female protagonist who turns out to be a lesbian in a relationship with a bisexual Jewish woman. Who also happens to be pregnant by an Asian guy. They are fighting against “Christian fanatics” who are hunting gay people in an apocalyptic world.. Then our beloved WHITE MALE protagonist is beaten to death with a golf club by a transgender Who somehow managed to get a sex change operation in apocalyptic world.. who also happens to be our new protagonist..
3440) This game often feels like propaganda. The political agenda takes precedence above all else. In many ways this game reminds me of Mass Effect Andromeda. Both were established and beloved game series that were hijacked for political purposes. The writing in both also feels too contemporary too. In the LOU2 there is a line about bigot sandwiches. I just feel that a zombie apocalypse is a really poor setting for these political messages. In an apocalypse people should be concerned with food, shelter and zombies... not "bigot sandwiches." In many ways it feels like a strange continuation. Also how buff Abby was very strange. That body type is very hard to attain and probably impossible to attain in an food scarce apocalypse. Overall this game feels like such a strange way to continue the story, certain political aspects feel forced which to me makes it feel like propaganda. A score of 0 may seem harsh for such a beautiful game, but the 0 score comes from how much enjoyment I got from this game.
3441) Political correctness is going to destroy this  wonderfull industry. Please don't waste your money and time on this ... learn from other people's mistakes ...
3442) Ok, what do we have here?,,A sequel to a quite popular work, accepted as a well-written dystopian action game, with strong emphasis on it's characters, their development and their bond to each other.,,I always thought, that the first one had quite repetitive and let's just say, pretty simple gameplay, a really good presentation, a cool and interesting hero, solid storytelling and good world-building. It was a decent game overall.,,Now, the second part has that.. sort of I guess... And even more. "Great" one might think. Eh eh, sorry to disappoint you guys. The cool & interesting hero is not the protagonist anymore and is literally gone after a few hours and the "more" is actually something, that games and art generally should have less of...,,And that is pandering, virtue signalling and an agenda-driven intention, to push ideologies.  Don't get me wrong, an artist generally can of course use art as a way to express the personality, feelings or to sent a message, in my opinion – that is totally welcome and interesting for a reflective recipient, no matter if agreeing with the artist or not. But in this case, an form of art is MISUSED to PUSH their own viewings and ideas on others drastically... And as a gamer since the 80s, that is something I want, can, should and must not tolerate. So, I raise my voice as a real GAMER via this platform and say NO to The Last of Us Part II.,,Out of a quite well-narrated grim action game with emotional moments for mature players, they made a dull teenager walking simulator drama infected with identity politics.,,I am afraid of what they might do to Nathan in the future, if they decide to carry on with the Uncharted Franchise. I mean, he is a cool, masculine straight white male, right? And that is something, that does not fit their agenda at all... but hairy arm pits, folks, hairy arm pits on females do. Apparently.,,Hope that Naughty Dog will soon announce: "THE LAST GAME OF US".,,No/10
3443) the story & characters ended up so bad it makes you want to stop gaming for a while.All the graphics in the world couldn't salvage this horrible story.,,Only good thing that came out of this SJW thrash is the hilarious memes, which is also kinda sad.
3444) I want my money back, this is a bad game and im feeling robbed, plz dont buy this game guys.
3445) For a story focused game with no replay value, we need a marvelous story, witch is far from the case. The last of us part 2 delivers a strange choice for a follow up story: disrespects the stablished characters, is poorly developed and becomes a real mess from the middle on. Gameplay-wise, the game is more of the same. Some new mechanics like dodge, but that's that. No replay value at all. What a waste of 7 years.
3446) I have never played a sequel that treated its predecessor with such disdain. It's like they hate everything that was established in the first game. I won't spoil, but I can't believe what they do to a main character. The clickers are no longer the focus of the combat, it's mainly fighting other humans, the new characters are one dimensional, and the gameplay itself really hasn't evolved much for a 7 year gap between titles.
3447) I really hate to put this ideas and force it to the gamer's minds, I don't even know what to say more, I loved the first part so much, they shouldn't do the second one
3448) The "critics review" score shows how rotten is this industry. A 100 is meant to be a perfect game. this is not a perfect game, not even a good game.,Unless you want to play a videogame about political agendas, this game is not for you.,Also, i Deducted 2 points from the score due to MUSO, and SONY **** tactics with youtubers and the false copyright demans ignoring fair use.
3449) Good gameplay and graphics, but lazy writing and story + misleading trailers.,,Do yourself a favor and save your money! :/
3450) This game is fxxcking horrible.,Naughty dog killed their game by themselves.,I have no reason to be taught by them and I will never buy their game again.
3451) Doom have better story than this................................................
3452) Absolute woke trash. Killed off Joel because being a straight white male is a sin in 2020 and let his killer get away. Pure sjw nonsense
3453) HORRIBLE PLOT! I cannot believe Naughty Dog has ruined such a beautiful franchise. I was so excited for this game but it was so falsely advertised. I loved this franchise for JOEL MILLER. He was the defining factor in my love for the game. I understand he had to die somehow, but this was NOT it! I DO NOT WANT TO PLAY AS JOEL’S KILLER! Then we get this absolutely terrible ending. Such a waste of talent from Naughty Dog. You guys really dropped the ball on this.
3454) This story legitimately seems like something out of a fan fiction
3455) they destroyed the story.  Don't waste your money as all of the charm and interaction is gone.  Crap
3456) Sometimes the story goes off the rails, everything previously accomplished is trashed, and a political agenda is shoved down your throat.
3457) I wanted Abby dead at the end! I even didn’t want to play with her , the game play with her was just too long BUT the game itself was so amazing beside the story , Joel didn’t deserve to get killed just like that!!
3458) Terminator: Dark Fate = The last of us 2 - This is unforgivable!,Niel Druckman simply killed the main character who carried the story on his back, only to replace him with a woman.,,Everything that happened in the first game was destroyed, it was all in vain!,,This is the new globalist agenda of the world left.,They destroy the role of men and replace them with women, even if they have to turn women into men. Nothing in this game makes up for Joel's death, NOTHING! This is unforgivable!,,This game was not made for fans! this game was made to please people who don't even care about the game, it was made to please Niel Druckmann's sickly ideology...
3459) First : I'm not a bot. Second : ND has ruined this potential franchise so bad. You've lost the rudder with a non compelling story at all. A product full of gimmicky scenes that destroys the legacy from TLOU1. Such a SHAME!
3460) What a horrible game. They had such a great story to work with but completely ruined anything to do with this game. Visual/Sound looks stunning but whoever created the story needs to be fired.
3461) This game is a poor excuse for a sequel, it’s destroys all the character development from the first game and the story is extremely lacking and poorly done. The only positive thing I can say about this fame is the voice acting and that’s not saying much. Joel dies
3462) Neil's mistake Joel = gamer = player,Neil killed Joel = kill gamer =kill player =betray consumer,what a suck,i have to play Abby killed my Joel? what the ****,and  i have to forgive Abby in the ending?  oh my god,Neil  destroy my  best franchise game,  i will delete  the last of us 2  in my heart,good bye last of us   good bye naughty dog,good bye my favorite game.,i hate Neil, hate ABBY, hate alley too.
3463) do you guys have any respect on your characters???,,What kind of heads should you have to write this story??
3464) Killing a character we loved that much in a silly way is not the best thing to do,I just finished the game and this silly ending too makes me sure that thins game wasn't supposed to exist
3465) Part 2 is a complete disservice to fans of part 1. They killed off Joel in the first couple of hours in the game and they make you play as the person who killed him. The game is painfully slow and the gameplay isn’t really a step up from the first game besides being able to dodge attacks, but even that is flawed since you need to press the sprint button in order to dodge which is annoying.
3466) You are nitpicking and biased... I win, bye bye!,Let's get this to 3.0 boyssssssssssssssss
3467) Lost for words with the storytelling involved in this game and the forced agenda that was pushed on fans. DISGRACEFUL
3468) Ellie makes the most **** stupid decisions during the game.,Waited a long time to play this and i didn't want to believe the leak. In the end the leak was right. They killed Joel in the most **** horrible and stupid way possible.,You **** up naughty dog.
3469) This is message for the company...,If you need money, make an another saga or another game. Don't wrecks this game ;),For a player...,If you want play it but it's a real ****
3470) “How to ruin your belowed game” simulator,The graphics are good but if I wanted to see good graphics I would not play this game .,Also, metacritic keeps removing votes and i think it is not democratic to do so.
3471) Let's forget about the pandering SJW agenda, you want to have a diverse cast of characters? That's fine, however forcing it over and over and over instead of character development defeats the purpose when no one cares about the characters. What is inherently wrong with this story driven game is poor writing, character inconsistencies, and plot holes. Certain characters just do NOT behave like their previous selves from part 1. They do an awful job of introducing new characters, especially Abby. Could've had the audience get to know her more in order empathize with her instead of just forcing her on the audience with immediate hatred. It went from quite masterful writing in TLOU to downright amateur writing (think what happened to The Walking Dead in whatever season they're up to now but slightly worse than that even).,Gameplay: not much changed besides some new equipment, ability enhancements, prone/crawling. With all this time to develop this game the new enemies and enemy variation is severely lacking, combined with poor enemy A.I. and oftentimes laughably broken friendly A.I. (for better or worse) results in repetitive scenarios and the best part is you can often sprint passed an entire wave of enemies, get to a quicktime event door and somehow are impervious to death and just get pushed into the next checkpoint. Puzzles have been oddly all but wiped out from the previous game and the developers added nothing new to replace the lack of puzzles besides more walking simulator. The camera often gets stuck and obstructed near walls/corners and the animations quickly get repetitive.,Last but not least all these years to develop a game and no multiplayer included? The first game had a fun multiplayer I personally put many hours into and had my fun with. Makes it even more sad since they butchered the story so much their is no saving grace for this game.,This game is pure regression is every facet of the word. AVOID and save your money!
3472) Well. whats the point in even trying sugar coat this. the game is horrible. way too basic you can almost turn of your brain and you will win the game nonetheless. Poor poor Joel. Also it was supposed to be a post apocalyptic game... most of the political propaganda in it is... well... BAD to say the least the ending is even more horrible. OH ALSO LETS GO AND KICK A BLACK PREGNANT WOMAN WAY TO GO
3473) Nah i don't like what's going on here you change a lots of things to worst
3474) I work at gamestop and we gave this game away for free because we over ordered but alot of our customer will not take it even thought its free. Now we have to recoup our lost by increasing the price of our other items. I hope the boss wont repeat the same mistake when ps5 come out.
3475) rubbish game.,So disappointed that ND end a fantastic game like that.,It's totally a joke to spend 7 years developing a trash game like this.
3476) Same gameplay,The core(story) is empty,There is nothing to do more than the first part unlike the first part is better billions of time,A game with no soul
3477) Awful story and dumb hellarious characters behavior. Even you sink to that shine ranbow bottom. Don't buy it
3478) This game is so bad. Ellie can kill hundreds of people but when the time comes kill abby suddenly killing bad revenge bad. This game was only made so that neil druckmann can show his self insert character having sex with abby.Also they lied about you being able to complete the game without killing a dog.
3479) Holy **** did they **** up the story of this ****ing game what a bag of **** it is
3480) So Saaad  it Could’ve been great but it’s not It is sooo boring  and story wise there is no arc in any of the characters they all move like robots they don’t feel  it’s disgusting no one in this game has any feeling that are above one layer they all forget so fast they don’t care and they Have no reason to do what they do it’s just a Statement after statement Being forced on the player that is sooo **** up
3481) This score is based on the core of why people play the last of us, and why they fell in love with the first game, which is it's the story,If you are playing the game for the game play, the graphics and atmosphere you will not be disappointed, as naughty dog is one of the best technical artists in the industry.,But people play the game for the rich story, characters and narrative, which this game has none. On the contrary it has one of the worst casts in any game, and with all the potholes weighing it done, it's not surprising that this would be the worst game from naughty dog.
3482) This game ruined The Last Of Us for me. It took the outdated gameplay loop , polished it a tiny bit more and handed it back to us. Combat only  requires spamming square near an enemy with no tactics in play. Ai have nice animations but are still dumb as ever.  Staying at areas i've long since vacated. The story is full of plot holes with little to no character development  and a horrible "sex scene " I say that in quotation marks as it is more of a photorealistic horse mating session. The  Characters themselves are not given enough time to develop or show any likeable traits. There is a brutal death in the game not used to add any sadness to the narrative but purely to just shock the player. This game is full of discrepancies and while there is ambition here. ND has made too many failures in execution and plot  to call this game a success
3483) Wow, I just can not believe they would kill off both main characters. WHAT A DUMPSTER FIRE OF A STORY! Game was a little better than the first, but this god awful story ruins the game. Plus that one scene made me want to vomit seeing Neil.
3484) This game did not happen. It will be part of 2020 that never happened.,,End of story. 0/10
3485) The game's story is so bad and WOKE that you'll have to be asleep to find it good. This is how to destroy your franchise - pander to the ideology of the few, but expect everyone to love it.
3486) Very bad experience, the story very bad game play it is good but the actual story and ending very bad
3487) The story is very bad storyline and ellie didn't kill abby that is all for nothing but just killed all her friends and joel's death is the most disappointing moment of the way naughty dog killed off the main character from the 1st game. Some of the story doesn't make sense. Very disappointing if naughty dogs listened to the fan to change the story
3488) The gameplay is fine but repetetive, the exploration is nice and the graphics are fantastic. HOWEVER, fans love the first game for it's amazing characters and well told story... none of that is in this game. Graphics are 10, gameplay is a 6 but the story is a big fat Zero.
3489) This the most pathetic story i have ever seen in video game through my whole life
3490) just avoid this if you play had part 1 before, it sure disappointed you, and you may feel like eat ****
3491) Disgusting game. All game is a feminism and lgbtq propaganda. It looks like that they have  made this game like that only to make good rating so it is better to destroy their rating to show them that they should make games to have fun, not to teach to be tolerant. It is school responsibility.
3492) It is truly painful to see one of the greatest games ever made to become a sjw ego fest. The game treated characters we loved into stupid and senseless people which ended off costing their life, and unnecessary sex scenes too. Most of this was done to promote more women and less men in the game, and it is heavily put out there that this game was strictly to enforce an agenda. Shame on Naughty Dog, and more shame on Druckman.
3493) Why, tell me why?  It is a game that really generates discomfort for not being what was expected, it is at a point a story that does not make sense, it is a medium game because it does not finish closing the story, we wanted diamond and we only received gold, it is painfully medium
3494) The last Jedi of video games. Worst possible sequel the game could have had. Abby is the worst character, the story telling is pathetic. Game is really sad excuse for a sequel to an all time great.
3495) This game is a disgrace.,,Imagine making an amazing video game in 2013, a game about survival, apocalypse and family. A game that has characters that you feel invested in, characters you love. You want to see these characters have a happy ending. You wait for a sequel.,And it doesn't come for seven years.,Seven years later, you come to realize that they kill off the beloved main character, and to top it all off, they implement gender politics?! This video game is a huge middle finger to the fans of the Last of Us, and I will never buy another game made by Naughty Dog.,,0/10
3496) Huge disappointment. As a fan of the first game I'm just shocked by the betrayal of Naughty dog.
3497) There is a decided lack of black reverence and worship in this game. In stead of embracing the KINGS of Africa that the black man are, they chose to show women loving one another rather then black kings inseminating white women as it should be.
3498) If i want this type of contents i only need to search in Twitter, literally destroyed this game lol. Monotoned and stupid game. I only lost my money.
3499) good begining...the rest of the game is awfull,by the way the graphics are good but is poop in a gift box
3500) The story feels so forced it’s unbelievable. It’s impossible that these are still the same ppl that made tlou 1. worst story ever made probably
3501) This is the worst game I've been waiting for ... A HORRIBLE plot, drug use, LGBT people, the murder of the main characters.  Do not buy or waste time on this game.
3502) Sad!! It has good graphics but the story is wrong .. I want a refund.. doesn't deserve a good score.
3503) SO THIS IS '#1 Best PS4 Game of 2020',FUNNY. IF SONY GIVE ME $100 I MAY CHANGE IT TO A 10, JUST LIKE THOSE CRITICS WHO GOT PAID. THIS FXXKER, NEIL DRUCKMANN RUINED NAUGHTY DOG. THE POOREST STORY EVER.
3504) i think naughty dog is trolling. why would they do this. they better make a DLC with an alternate ending
3505) Ruined the story from the first game, disappointing. It feels rushed even though we waited 7 years, the game just went downhill in the first hour.. Naughty Dog **** up a masterpiece..
3506) Bad. They ruined this game so bad, I put too much expectation before. Just like got season 8.
3507) You couldn't make a worse sequel to the best game ever made if you tried. Naughty Dog is comprised of sadistic human beings that hold no moral values. In the first game we are tasked with ensuring the safety and survival of a young 14 year old MINOR girl. We play as both Ellie and Joel, who meets Ellie after losing his daughter who was roughly the same age. The original game is designed to make you feel like you are a PARENT to Ellie and the story and script truly make you care for these characters. As we watch Joel and Ellie struggle to survive the world and eachother the story brings the two characters closer together until they become inseperable. Flash forward to the sequel which was released 7 years after the original. Ellie is now 19 and despises Joel for saving her life. Regardless of how much they have gone through together and how strong their relationship was at one point they now seem distant. Near the beginning of the sequel we find out that our daughter that we worked so hard to raise and keep safe in the first game is now a lesbian. Which I  have absolutely no problem with and I'm happy for her. What I do have a problem with is having to watch a lewd intimate scene that involves a young girl whom WAS 14 YEARS OLD THE LAST TIME WE SAW HER. Shortly after they decide to kill Joel in the story whom was one of the most respected video game characters ever created. They then decide to rub it in your face by having Ellie go to his house directly after which is filled with memories of their time together. After this the game and story become very linear and shallow. The issue is that all of this happens at the beginning of the game and really leaves no where for the story to go, no room for characters to grow etc. It feels like way more of a grind than an adventure very unlike the first game. All I really have to say is that Joel was a good man and a hero. He did not deserve to go out like that. Naughty Dog didn't just kill Joel though, they killed the entire franchise. RIP Joel Miller 2013-2020.
3508) Awful story awful characters. Why do i have to play with a character that i hate for 10 hours?
3509) A company that criticizes its customers for not being happy about its mediocre product ... Welcome to the age of inclusion
3510) Wow, what an absolute piece of **** game this is. The visuals are impressive which of course is to be expected by a new 2020 game, but they completely butchered the characters from the first game, cringy dialouge, poor character development. The charming father-daughter relationship from the first game made a game with great pacing between action, horror and a little bit of humour as well. This is completely absent. It has the last of us name but lacks it's soul. It's a mediocre action game with a forced LGBT narrative inserted into it, which also feels forced, to pander to the politically correct crowd. Cringe AF.
3511) This game is an insult to the whole industry and its abad indication of what to come in the future in regard to gaming medium as awhole and to Sony first party titles
3512) Trash this is a trash  the game is very good graphics but the gameplay is the copy of the first game and enemies not inteligent
3513) Much to my regret, I am afraid to say that this game is a total nonsense.  The graphics are wonderful, the gameplay is very good although similar to the previous installment, but the story is one of the worst of this year: The writers take the content very bad especially because the ending was very bad, do you really kill half the world  and you forgive the antagonist?  That message they wanted to give us is a total contradiction.  A lousy narrative with a message that is not convincing.  If you are true fans, this game is going to make you mad.,- Joel's death should have been better built - The end a total nonsense 25 hours for that unsatisfactory end
3514) They fu**ed up the story, the characters, same gameplay - small changes, whoever enjoyed part 1, don't buy part 2 :).
3515) When you mix a good franchise whether it's a movie or a game with biased political agenda and completely disregard the factors that made the game a hit, then it's just DUMB and it will only go downhill from there!
3516) Terrible story, Asian discrimination, black live Matter Yellow live no matter, director and editor is such a SWJ! Force people spent 7 years for this pathetic game,  waste my money and time! I won’t buy any game ever from Naughty Dog, it’s disappointing and disgusting. This company and vice President Neil Druckmann make me sick!
3517) TLOU joins StarWars, GoT, Ghostbusters 2016 as once great tiles ruined by sequels and subsequent revivals. the story is all over the place, same old revenge plot used a million times, people say the graphics the only good thing about this game but even that is lackluster, TLOU2 is too graphically, dark, gloomy and edgy, compare that to the giraffe scene in The last of us, where the message was "it may be a zombie apocalypse, but we do what we do to survive and find happiness in little things." This game is a chore to play and just when you thought in the end ,you would have the satisfaction of killing the villain to avenge the character that made the original good, you get a "change of heart" trope thrown at you. And what about the 100s of people you killed trying to get to Abby, don't they matter? the message of this game is unclear, but hey you're a bigot transphobe anti-SJW, racist if you don't like this game right?
3518) Terrible game, terrible story, terrible developers. The fact that all the "critics" are giving this game a 10/10 simply to stay in Sony's good favour is disgusting and misleading the player base. Save your money, watch a stream of the game if you are interested. Vote with your wallet.
3519) this has to be, without a shadow of a doubt, the absolute worst sequel made for any videogame ever. what a disgrace. if all you have going for your game is the story then why make the story the worst part? ZERO STARS
3520) This was terrible. Terrible story, terrible characters, obvious agenda, monotonous gameplay, 0/10 would not buy again.
3521) What happened? This was just plain awful. I don’t want to see this series continue.
3522) **** Abby all my **** hate Abby!! I’m just mad they made me do a boss fight against baby j
3523) Disappointing feels like they focused on forced messages that have an obvious agenda than anything else.
3524) Absolutely awful game do not buy. So many long time fans will be disappointed in the direction naughty dog decided to take. Pandering to the lgbt community and deciding it was a good idea to kill Joel off, everyone’s favorite character. Gameplay doesn’t feel new or innovative. Graphics are decent but nothing to write home about. Dialogue comes off as stiff and forced and all together an unpleasant experience
3525) The story plot is ridiculous. I doubt the critics actually even played the game.
3526) DO NOT BUY. Just a garbage game inside and out with zero care for the fan base, give congrats to the sjw Karen’s for the absolute mess that this game is. DO NOT BUY
3527) Honestly I'm not mad that Joel died even though I am disappointed. After he dies you are forced to play the character who killed him. This is supposed to be a revenge story but you don't even get it in the end.
3528) Spoiler Alert! Game sucks, you play as some lesbian turd who in all reality would die in a matter of seconds in an apocalyptic setting like this. Get rid of the ridiculous female roles and the SJW garbage and maybe this game gets to a 2 at best. Stick to Uncharted, Naughty Dog.
3529) No rational sequence of facts in the story line. They create consequences badly explaining why they happened.
3530) The ending is really bad
3531) Story is bad . Worst game ever made. Disappointed all of us lsou fans hope u die in ur sleep
3532) Killing off Joel was enough to give this game a 0. Purposely misled consumers into believing it would be a Joel and Ellie adventure. Adding all the virtue signalling, sjw **** into the mixer and this game is easily biggest disappointment of the decade.
3533) I was very impressed by the last of us.,So deep motion the last of us gave to gamer.,And i wait for several years for the last of us part 2.,But all i get is bad experience only.
3534) Absolute disgrace to the first part. Story is complete bs, left-wing political propaganda. I can't believe this game was made by Naughty Dog. While gameplay and graphics deserve 9/10 I just can't give this game more than 0 because of what they did with the story. It could live as a standalone IP but not as sequel to brilliant original The Last of Us.
3535) I stand with the masses around the world in being soul crushingly disappointed and heartbroken by the death of our beloved Joel. All these years I waited, pre-ordered and set aside time to play this I was beyond excited. To be faced with our wonderful Joel have his life brutally taken. I'm heartbroken, angry, and horrified. Joel & Ellie are ruined now.,We were ALL so excited to see the bond between him & Ellie again, I don't even want to play now. Why is the focus on some butch ugly murdering heathen, and Ellie embarking on a lesbian journey?? and who the hell wrote his death right at the very beginning of the game..?? This game franchise is ALL about Joel and Ellie. Why take him away in such a cheap, brutal way by that ugly **** not a good decision. It was done in such a crass way. It is so nonsensical too in that it bears no ties to the first game at all, and Joel & Ellie don't even communicate! It makes me so mad the way they let Joel down in making him and Tommy come across stupid as to give their names and hometown to the gang. It's a total injustice. The bond, humour and love was always the treat to the gamer to watch between Joel & Ellie. It feels like a weird liberal agenda of LGBTQ and feminism shoved down our throats, than it paying respect to our Joel & Ellie's journey. Games are to escape from the mess of the modern world...,They built up hype all this this time around Joel and him coming to rescue Ellie once more and it was built on a lie! the lowest of the low. They wanted to 'shock' your audience, but instead disrespected and showed plain dishonour towards a monumentally huge fanbase around the world, to Joel. JOEL AND ELLIE ARE THE SOUL OF THE LAST OF US.,When we first watched him playing his guitar and singing to Ellie, I was in a flood of tears it moved me so much I literally was sl excired to see their new ventures together. That was the absolute best part, beautifully done you could feel it in your soul. I haven't even picked up my controller since Joel died i'm just so disappointed. I'm so shocked Naughty Dog that you've completely ruined a world class, deeply loved game. With a heavy heart, back to RedDead to my beloved Arthur.
3536) Trash game, SJW and Leftist politics galore, don't bother buying this piece of trash game. The Last of Us Part II is nothing but an insult to the original game itself and its fans.
3537) There is a saying in Hollywood that "If you want to send a message, use Western Union.",,But coming to games, I will say "use Metacritic.",,If this is a AAA movie, at least to me, the storytelling needs to be on par with Avatar, and in my opinion, Avatar has a very average story.,,If you want only people who like you to play your game, that's fine.,,But if you need people who don't personally know you to play your game and care, you need to spend less effort on how to control their review process but broaden your craft.,,You can manage your self-image by not allowing your peers and subordinates to talk trash to you, and most of the time, they won't.,,But you cannot control others' expectations of you the same way, because they are not paying for you to have your amusement made, but a good story that they can relate.,,Maybe my expectation of the game is the result of me getting older, but so should the craftsmanship of game developers.
3538) For love of God, don't inject your political agenda into gaming experience,, you ND just ruined the game
3539) Terrible story. This F__ing part 2 destroy the former that it's better not punished it.
3540) This review contains spoilers.,,My approach for this review is getting straight to the point (quick fire bullet points),the assumption is made that readers are familiar with the series or rather predecessor of this current iteration.,,1- Gameplay - this game personifies the "if its not broke dont fix it"" approach. the controls and game play is almost identical. its about survival and you need to be smart about how you manage your weapons. There is no new interesting weapons. And its the same old style of hide and take your time before attacking enemies.,,Enemy variations are limited in fact most are similar to the initial game for most of this game. AI can be questionable,at times. More so with the new inclusion for enemy dogs , Ill just say this if a dog catches your scent i doubt the moving 2 metres away will make the dog loose you. ),,i hated that i felt more vulnerable in this game. Even though this game is relatively easy.,,2-Graphics and environment - this is the largest merit of the game. this is definitely the best thing about this game Naughty dog just has a style about their Last of Us and Uncharted series that is so amazing to witness. this game does not miss a beat on that point. Environments look largely the same and painfully linear with little open world.,,3- Story - The main issue here is the character themselves. their Actions are rather different from the first game. Characters that survived the first game seem regressed they some how trust strangers now. which gets them brutally killed. this includes the protagonist of the previous game whole is clearly not himself. Joel does not have a clear motive and this obviously leads to his death. The motive of his death is also not stemming from a previous choice the player was made aware of or given consent, Autonomy was disregarded and what seem like a moment of courage to preserve a little girls life in the first game led to a mans death. Ally then seeks revenge kills thousands of people and in the end finds Joels killer and opts for an Honorable battle which makes no sense because the character design of this character shows that she is defiantly superior in strength! in a segment of the game you are forced to play as this very unlikable character.,,Theres a weird sexual encounter all i can say on that is wow!!!,,4- Lastly My love for video games -   The politics of the game ruin this game. This is taking a perfectly good hearted story and trying to challenge you for no reason with a plethora of plot holes. how are you getting buff in a damn apocalypse. Its ridiculous !!!!  but its okay.  but ignore the forth point its just my opinion.,,and by the way the apocalypse is ignored its just about religion and sexuality now. its crazy,,this is a 2,5/10,oh! Abby kills Joel ryt after joel saves her from a horde of Zombies
3541) another franchise destroyed by a mediocre script, What's going on with the scripts? nobody checks them!  So many expectations and in the end after 7 years, is this what they bring? what a disappointment,It's a game about how revenge is bad...Except Abby used revenge and got everything she wanted with no repercussions.
3542) A game that must be apocalyptic, but perverted developers prefer to pay attention to the character's sexuality than to the game itself, a game is not made of graphics, but of a story with gameplay, the studios that rated 100 for this game are all paid for it,,metacritic is censoring comments, they don't want us to rate the game, doing everything so that the review cannot be commented
3543) Naughty Dog was not interested in creating another masterpiece. They were interested in nothing more than jamming their political views down your throat and it affected every facet of this game. The gameplay was never the main focal point in The Last of Us, but The Last of Us II is a step down. The troubles the studio had with devs leaving created massive problems as the game is choppy and I've run into a lot of stutters and freezes. I am so upset that this game was the sequel to one of the greatest game stories ever made. Disappointed is an understatement.
3544) TLOU 1 was my favorite single player game. Replayed it 3x. Loved the multiplayer. Was immersed in the game, loved the story along with Joel and Ellies character progression and struggles/tough decision throughout.,Have been more excited for this game than any other i can think of..EVER. I cannot believe THIS is what i waited for. Ruined everything i loved about the game and regret playing and spending money on it. Please if you havent played, and loved the first game, do yourself a favor and pretend this was never made. Cannot believe ND could mess this up so incredibly badly.
3545) Extremely disappointing this game is hot garbage. Does its predecessor such a disservice.
3546) simply a waste of time, during the passage of the game, you feel like you were scammed, one could say that the graphics are excellent and others, but what they put in their efforts to that, it took everything from the story, which culminates in a disgusting way, and disappointing, please I hope they don't get this piece of **** out for the ps5, because they would be just wasting their money
3547) So sad and so disappointed, most importantly there still some good story part, but the game maker tried so hard too make it a crapp. After playing the game I just fell sick.
3548) This game represents everything wrong and repulsive about the entertainment industry nowadays. It's full of hacks who tell terrible stories, and push political agendas where they don't belong. There was never a problem with gay or female characters in gaming before. The first game had gay characters and a diverse cast. We've had strong female characters who are actually more interesting since the dawn of gaming. Naughty Dog is not fixing anything. They're ruining the legacy of one of the best games of all time.,Neil Druckmann was right when he said that the game wasn't fun, nothing about this is fun, at a year where the world is completely miserable, this is what we get.,Also don't get me started on the meaningless ending, or the portrayal of characters from thefirst game.,The first game was fun and poignant, this is just pure garbage.
3549) Really horrible, not to mention how poor the story was implanted throughout the entire game. Truly a piece of garbage of an LGBT story telling with a lot of revenge seasoning in it.
3550) I never imagined that naughty dog ​​could ruin a story from a game, which was waiting for seven years, as much as that of the last of us part 2. It really is a disappointment for all fans and a disregard for the legacy of the first game. As a fan I say: I will consider that part 2 never existed ...
3551) Journalists failed to be objective on this game. Let the real voice of gamers be heared
3552) This game is the only thing that disappointed me more than my father not coming to greet me for my last 5 birthdays.
3553) This is hereby declared non canon by the people. The biggest disapointing in gaming history till now.
3554) This is spoiler free review, as an asian chinese malaysian that is in love with The Last of Us part 1, part 2 is like a" let's take all you know and love and throw it into the dustbin" game. i'll cut to the chase,Pros : Combat is more refine.,Graphics are really good.,Character animation is top notch.,Better subversion of expectations than GOT season 8 and The last Jedi,Cons : Story is so bad that calling it bad is a understatement .,Whatever left wing political agenda you can think of, it's inserted in there in your face.,The game forgets about all the important things from part 1 eg - Ellie is the vaccine plot.,You don't get a proper closure, just emptiness and a lot of WTFs.,No payoff, characters inside make decisions that can make your head spin.,All expectations are subverted ( some might think this is a pro, not me).,Mediocre : Sounds and music can be better. ( part 1 does it a bit better ),Combat is better but not as good as recent AAA titles.,Repetitive game-play.,Closing:,I am severely disappointed even-tho i really try to like it.,I am just a normal person who wish to enjoy games as an escape from reality.,I will vote with my wallet carefully next time.,I wish I could give it a 2 or 3 in the score but the story just kills every single cell in me to give it anything positive.,The End, thanks for taking your time to read this review.
3555) I've never waited for a game so long in my life. At 60 years old, this is the only game I would play besides COD with my stepson. That being said, I could not have been more disappointed. I was willing to look past the sexuality that Druckman threw in because of our politically correct climate. However, he went too far with attempts at the shock factor. 2.5 hours in and I am done. I intentionally read the ending now and I'm glad I did. I have no intention on finishing
3556) As a game, it's a 10 but the story leaves a lot to be desired,It's my fault for going with the illusion too high, I expected much more.,Again the press doing its job overvaluing titles
3557) Gameplay and Graphic is very good, but the story is very bad,i think this game is a LGBT propaganda
3558) Neil Druckman and Anita are a fatality mistake of this game. If you play on a single project, the important step should be a deep and detailed story. This story is ****
3559) This game hurt Fans of the The last of us Part1 so much,,we want to play the character we want and story is so important,but the develop didn't pay much effort into it,and didn't  try to understand what fans want but do their own things
3560) laughable fail and weird disgusting twitter fanfiction,+ nice graphic,+ technical side,+ combat would be good but me playing as little girl and beating adult men breaking any immersion,- ridiculous pro alphabet and anti christian propaganda,- no respect for the players,- no respect for the tlou 1 and fan fav characters,- disgusting s*x scene,- sony and ND actions against youtubers,- pathetic story with cliché message about killing is bad (which doesnt matter in gameplay anyway unlike for example in death stranding which actually managed to push killing is bad message into gameplay well),get woke go broke shills,wait for ghost of tsushima if you want great PS4 exclusive game
3561) Disgusting game. RIP TLOU. There are some many things wrong with this games story and character wise.
3562) It's sucks complite peace of shiiit.,I should it realy distroied any good memory that i have with this game in the firs part.
3563) Why would Joel or tomy just say tere names to any one or if the Firefly lady didn't say Joel's name then she or any one would have known tomy knew that he killed Firefly people that's dum seriously dum
3564) The Last Of Us is in my top 5 games ever made. Part 2 is the opposite of what i wanted in a sequel. (and to be honest a sequel was not necessary in the first place) Regardless of the political motivations of the story, The writing is just bad, There are several plot holes one of which is the backbone of the entire story. it's just incredibly lazy writing. There are several new characters none of which are particularly likable and some who are straight up detestable. Gameplay wise, not much has actually changed from the first game, despite what trailers had led us to believe. Above all, the main problem with this game, is even describing it as a game. Calling it a game suggests there is some level of enjoyment to be had from playing it. When in reality The Last Of Us Part 2 is a thoroughly unpleasant experience all round. I wasn't even sure how to rate this experience. a 0 might seem like i'm just another person trying to "troll" the game (a term seemingly used only when people disagree with your personal dislike of something and a way for them to try invalidate said opinion) but it came down to this. Is there ANYTHING about this game that i feel would make me want to go through "playing" it again? would i recommend it to someone who might enjoy it even if i didn't? sadly the answer to both of those questions is no. The Last Of Us Part 2 is poorly written, with no significant gameplay changes, but above all is simply not a pleasant experience to slog through. Fortunately my old house mate works for Sony so i didn't have to pay to "play" this game.
3565) They need to stop removing negative reviews just because we hate this game. I would never recommend someone buy this the only thing this game has is graphics nothing else
3566) Strong graphics, mediocre gameplay, horrendous story arc with a sprinkle of agenda driven rubbish. Do not buy.
3567) Spit over one of the Best, deepest, interesting videogames characters ever, and call it "Master Piece". Just Despicable. I Will never Buy Naughty Dog Games again.
3568) The Last of us Part 2 is certainly one heaping pile of shot for a game. Not simply because it has a female lead or because this female lead is an LGBTQ+, but more because the way characters and moments in this sequel is a complete disservice to the original game which is undoubtedly a masterpiece and must have for any ps4 gamer. Almost every character death in this game is quickly forgotten by both characters and players. These characters are extremely forgettable due to the lack of accomplishments done by them or any memorable moments.
3569) terrible story plotholes left and right ruined joels arc false advertising joel in trailers when he dies withing the first 2 hours neil druckman is a **** simp for anita sarkissean all this woke **** ruins these games shaking my head
3570) Finally finished the game and I could not find the proper words to describe how disappointed and frustrated I feel with the way they wrote off a character like Joel, literally “dumbing” him down for the sake of just killing him, completely ignoring the lore and the character’s personality which was pretty well established in the first game. The ending is pointless and makes it feel like the whole game and story was for nothing. Terrible story, character development and execution.,Graphics are good but that is expected from one of the last games of the console’s lifetime.
3571) Beyond disappointing. Story is awful. The relationship between Joel and Ellie mainly consists of her yelling at him. Joel barely appears in the game , and Ellie is unlikeable in this game. I hated this game. It ruined everything good in the first game. Ellie is left with nothing. As am I. Don’t buy this game.
3572) The story is trash,The story is trash,The story is trash,The story is trash,The story is trash,The story is trash,The story is trash,The story is trash
3573) It's the last jedi and game of thrones season 8 all over again. Save your money.
3574) Terrible game. Broken plot. Very dissapointed. Druckmann just ruined the best game. Fools!
3575) This game **** on the franchise and disrespects the main characters. Do not buy it.
3576) The graphics are good, nothing new or amazong. But what i really hate was the story development of the characters and the sensation of torture of playing the wrost story ever. Is like playing the last chapter of Game of Throns in a longplaygame combined with Birds of Prey and Captain Marvel
3577) Feels like a forever cutscene interrupted with the odd "Click X to pass" gameplay, characters are much more bland than in the first one, regardless of the political drama surrounding the game. Also would like to point out Naughty Dog's shady af practices with censoring negative takes.
3578) This isnt a game... This is a erotic dream of Neil Druckmann... No buy this game.
3579) Tough story, but pony ending. My zero for Naughty Dog couse I cant kill Abby in the end
3580) It's really sad how ND made the sequel this bad, I mean, they forgot almost everything from the previous game, character development, argument, background story. Joel just died like a **** retard, MAN, he was so **** smart in the previous game and in this sequel he dies like "yeah i'm gonna trust everyone because suddenly all people become good a nice and I don't have to think bad things about them", and to be more specific, this game is place like 4 years after the previous game, so he become that useless just for the plot in 4 years, he went to be a survivor to a old senil stupid man without surviving abilities and all that he showed on the previous game. Ellie is the biggest deception on this game, her character development lacks of everything, I mean, she in the end does not kill abby because in fraction of second, he thought that revenge is a bad thing with a Joel flashback in it with no sense at all.,,Don't buy this game, do yourself a favor, THIS GAME IS NOT BAD BECAUSE IT HAVE A **** TRANSWOMAN AS HULK OR LESBIANS, it is bad because they are written like **** with no background story, just random people without story in it, man, writting this really sucks.
3581) Graphics are good but the story line and game play is garbage.  Don't waste your money on this
3582) horrible, no respect for previous game, disgusting act of trying to teach in a game.
3583) so much worse than I could have possibly imagined.  So many critics have completely lost any and all credibility after their reviews.
3584) It's just disgusting. A boring story with the addition of trends such as LGBT propaganda and feminism.
3585) I loved the first part so much and was so hyped to play part 2 now very disappointed and sad about this i wish i could give a better score but sorry 0 is what it deserves
3586) Such a bad story writing and structure. Repetive boring gameplay. I would not recomend.
3587) we played the last of us 2 to feel good about ourselves not to feel bad about the beloved characters that you made us love from the first game, and not to feel bad about playing a character that we will obviously not like to play. We want to play and feel good about ourselves not this!!!
3588) Terrible game. Completely disrespected and undid the entire first game. The revenge story line made for an extremely useless and un-fulfilling plot. I've waited under 6 years to play this sequel and I cannot express how disappointed I am.
3589) I hope this whole situation proves once and for all that critics and game ,,jurnalists" are the last people you should be asking about their opinion on games.
3590) I am honestly so disappointed. What is the point on having two of the most beloved videogames characters and a great story (TLOU)  just to disgrace them like this for pure shock value?,,I get it, violence is bad, that world is messed up, there is no hope... However, what they missed is that what actually engaged the audience is having those moments of hope thanks to those characters even in a dark and raw world.,,Honestly, the world is a **** show right now and I don't need this game to make me feel even more depressed. For me, TLOU has only one part and this I don't know what it is but definitely doesn't deserve to be put next to the first part.
3591) this game is literally ****,terrible story, gameplay, graphics,worse than warcraft 3 reforged and that says something
3592) This game looks amazing, I am actually stunned that a game could look this good on ps4 hardware. On the surface it plays very well, I am constantly surprised by the lighting, physics and the little touches in the environment and such.,,But the story. People did not look to play the last of us "part 1" for the gameplay, it was the story. And this game **** the bed, not only did it **** the bed, it spit right on our faces (just like after that one part). It is infuriating that they are trying to push an agenda into this game as well, like they are trying SO HARD.,,It's enough, I genuinely feel like I wasted my money and I am genuinely sorry for the devs who spent years to make such a good looking game just to fall more than flat, to fail miserably. The game plays amazing but if you don't want to play a game because of its story, it's not a good game.,,They were fishing for a reaction and yeah, they are getting one. This is not Part II.
3593) Avoid at all cost. Waste of money. Only purpose of this game is to push a SJW agenda.
3594) Like seriously who wrote the story ? People do not waste your money on this, please.
3595) People who can't make a good story should have no business making a game that's heavily story oriented. Killing off your main character in a way that is without the least bit of honor and then making the player play the game as your main character's murderer is utter garbage.
3596) I felt the last Jedi in this game I hope you to play amongst yourselves,Don't try to teach others about your thinking
3597) My suggestion to you is not to spend your money on buying this game at all and do not play this game at all (don't be fooled by the high score of this game),(If you play this game, you will hate the whole game industry),The reason is that this game only has very high graphics and good art design, and in terms of a very bad story, you must say that many games have a bad story, but in the case of The Last of Us Part II, the situation is different and there are many mistakes in it. Unlike the first part of this game, this game basically has a story full of problems,Merits,1- High and stunning graphics and excellent art design,2- Very high gameplay, warms your head for hours,Disadvantages,1- Story: A very bad story, art must elevate man, art, what film, music, computer games, in addition to being fun, there must be instructive points for human life, hidden in art in The Last of Us Your Part II would have reached emptiness, that is, an empty human being, that is, a purposeless human being, that is, an animal similar to a human being,2- Movie: The mistake that some game directors make in the last few years about the games of this generation is that they want to design the game from the beginning like a movie from the beginning and at the beginning of making the game. Directors who follow this trend, their game is similar to a simple walking game on the street. They do not consider that in making the first game, you have to make a game and after finishing the work, make that game look like a movie. In remembrance, the same mistake was made by the famous director Hedio Kojima, who plunged him into the quagmire of sinking the game industry in the movie, and his last two games again faced high scores from critics and low scores from gamers. Was,3- Sex: I am against entering scenes or sexually explicit words in any branch of art, movies, music and computer games, but in my opinion, in this game, neither the man nor the woman in this game has any value. Destroyed and sexually insulted and humiliated both sexes and questioned human beings as a whole. I consider homosexuality to be a mental illness, not an inalienable right. Countries like the United States and France have recognized homosexuality, so it's safe to say that they have the right to be animalistic to humanity.,4- Bad smell of politics and conspiracy (humanism and humanism): This game is made with a very high budget and there is already a very high sales forecast for this game, but behind these very heavy costs and this kind of bad story and It is highly doubtful that the story and design of the game, and even the strong financial support, will be shared by the kings and the Freemasonry sects in this game.,This game will be a headache for Sony and Nagati Dog by writing a fringe and problematic story, and it will be expensive for them. And even in the future, the game industry will change.,Neil Drakeman: You are not and will not be a good director at all, and you will soon be fired from the entire game industry for your betrayal of art.
3598) At the moment, this is not a game but a political protest. Game developers should focus on what they can do and not mix into ideological fights pushed into the game.
3599) Games are split into 3 categories, little to know story (ie tetris) some story but often relies on other aspects (ie Call of duty, madden) and games like this. When it comes to games like this, story is Everything, I’ve seen so many critics give this 10/10 because of how pretty it looks, that’s not how you rate a game, that’s why I continue to feel as though the critics are soulless shells of humans who are in the pockets of big business and lost touch with the real consumer. An ending to a game can change the whole game entirely. Why do you kill of a beloved character as joel and push us the player on the quest for revenge, even have us play as Joel’s killer, that just pissed us off, literal salt in the wounds, and then you have the audacity to not let us finish the job at the end, like it gets a 0 for just “being pretty” and having similar mechanics to the first so it’s kinda easy to get into it but. Overall it gets a 0/10 from me. Better luck next time naughty dog.
3600) I mean, why the sjw have to ruin everything? This game is disappointing to the very end of it all because their politic agenda. Just fcking kys already.
3601) Finally beat it and this has been one of the most atrocious video games I have ever played. Just the sheer disrespect this game and developers have for its predecessor is appalling  It's like they removed everything good about the first game that fans loved, including beloved characters and a dark world that still had hope and said no, F that, here's some wanton violence and violence for pure shock value. It means nothing to the story, where as TLOU was like a tunnel with a light at the end, TLOU part 2 is like you are stuck in an underground cave in and will never see light again. It's bleak and grim with no redeeming values and things happen with little respect to characters long standing personalities which are completely changed for plot convenience. It's like this game serves as nothing but a vessel to destroy those characters that fans love. Why? Why would ND do this to their fans? The gameplay was decent, not very innovative from the last game, and the graphics are a plus. But good graphics with such a poorly written, sickening story is not much of a benefit. Not to mention the player is forced to do countless awful things to get their vengeance, then the game denies even that and tries to scold the player for it, even though the game forced you onto that path. I know there are many fans like myself heart broken (and not in a good way) about what ND did here and I know I'm not the only one to think TLOU part II doesn't exist in my mind. What a disappointing end for us fans faithfully waiting for a (faithful) sequel for years, to say it fell short is an understatement. It's as if the developers went "hm, how can we really give the biggest F you to players?" everything they did callously intentional and knowingly against fans desires.,,RIP TLOU and ND credibility.
3602) leaked a great hero is just disgusting. They twisted Ellie's character. I don't understand why LGBT people are in this game. adolescents learn about their sexual orientation. pregnancy from an ex-boyfriend. What for? How does this reflect the name of the game? How does this relationship affect the story? If it was somehow embedded in the plot, I would understand. But Dina is just like a dummy, which does not affect the plot in any way. Just a dummy that sits out of frame most of the game? Any emotion of  Ellie and Dina do not cause. Added tolerance for the tick.Bravo noti dog, ruined the series! Even if you do not pay attention to these indulgences of tolerance, the plot in the game is simply the most boring.
3603) I’ve waited 7 years since the first came out and 4 **** years since the official trailer has been released and eventually a trash game **** this stupid gay/lesbian/transgender protecting/supporting/accepting  **** game the worst story ever written I’m never Going to buy a naughty dog game ever
3604) Fairly simple story and misaligned with the plot of the first game, it just seems like they made the game with the legs.
3605) Outdated gameplay, mediocre at best. The story is just so inconsistent, illogical, and badly told--POOR. Regretting playing this game.
3606) This game is so pathetic and was ruined in a matter of 2 hours. Yes, I understand that Joel had to have consequences for the action he did for the first game by saving Ellie but what type of consequence is killing him in the first 2 hours by the most pathetic way to die as if they hurried to kill the most liked character in the game. All in all this game was an atrocious  piece of shi game and the writes of it and especially Druckmann really needs to reconsider his career path
3607) Terrible hot pile of **** cant even refund cause they made joels death like 2 and a half hours into the game poggers.
3608) stop making lgbt stories in games!,no one should defend a case through video games,gaming should only be about fun entertainment or cultivating our brains.
3609) Omg why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why
3610) The absolute failure of the plot and the fall of the pants, does not correspond to what is happening in the first part
3611) After that masterpiece naughty dog shouldn have done the second part like this... the story is soo poor for the gameplay and the graphics itself...so disapointing naughty dog
3612) there's nothing too much things to say.,if the goal of the story was making upsetting players this is great triumph even though i can't see anything benefit for doing that.,worst part is refund is hard.
3613) So only thing good about this game is the graphics, sound and the fact you can make Abby walk off a cliff **** her and everything else #****abby
3614) Game goes full SJW tdd trying to push an agenda the game does not even focus on story like the first did an insult to the first game and to the fans neil and anita dont care about the fan base they just wanted to push an agenda in this game most male characters die to prove or make a point nobody asked for this 60 dollars down the drain
3615) What more I can say, this game really broken my heart totally. It makes me feel like some one or something I really care be taken.
3616) I bought this game without hearing any of the rumors that were floating around apparently. Started playing and just got tired of being beat over the head with the wokeness. After hours of being wokedified it tries to have a story only to destroy key aspects of past characters. 3 hours in I just quit. Anyone wanna buy it real cheap. No, for real. Like Anthem cheap.
3617) A complete waste of time, an insult to the intelligence of gamers everywhere, a disgrace to this series, a joke in this industry, and a disappointment to longtime fans. This game will be remembered for being squandered potential. Any redeeming qualities that are here are destroyed by a true sense of soullessness. The creators of this game sold out, period. This product deserves to be destroyed,  every last copy.
3618) It doesn't feel like a last of us game but like a zombie game to bad because I was really looking forward to this game but we still have cyber punk 2077
3619) ideological is very politic this is the last of us ? deception very empty history .
3620) So disappointing. After such a great first game, I was really looking forward to this.,It was more important to push a narrative than to tell a decent story.,My advice is to say good money.
3621) Barely any innovations or cool mechanics like the first game. Horrible plot holes, story elements and token characters that make the game feel less genuine unlike the first one. All of these things just serve as a device to appease a group of people for positive well timed marketing and have no actual place in a highly rated piece of art, which this is not.
3622) Absolutely horrendous. Disgusting. Awful. People leaving positive reviews either got paid to do so or are absolutely trans-rubbish biased. All that trans thing aside - game still sucks. Do not buy it for the life of you. Shame on you Naughty Dog, shame. on. you.
3623) Graphics 10/10,Gameplay 4/10,Animations 7/10,Characters 0/10,Story 0/10,,Don't buy this game.
3624) Played it for 10 hours. Graphics are ok, and sound is acceptable. The plot is very dull and full of far left agenda. The inclussion of LGTB symbols looks very forced and there are many unnecesary sexual scenes. Don't waste your money in this game.
3625) I'm gonna be honest: I made this account on metacritic only to express my disappointment, my grief, my wrath and in the end the numbness I felt, when the game was over. What an utterly waste of of time this was.,I wish I never played it and  I'd just remember The Last Of Us I as the masterpiece it was.
3626) Joel died and the game died with him. bad writing that doesn't make sense with characters that are acting unlike themselves just so that they could kill joel, the way he was acting and it was portrayed was just god awful, it feels like they threw out their writers department and just hired a high schooler to finish the story after the first game.
3627) You ruined the game just for the fan service of the LGBT community. You ignored the other players just for their fan service
3628) Literally dog **** the graphics are amazing, but the game mechanics are pretty much the same as last of us. The story line is really forced, it's like they tried to put every sjws and LGBTQ desires into a game just for fun
3629) Horrible storyline. How can you ruin this game like that seriously.. Only graphs are okay.
3630) The whole story is just piece if sxxx. Why those SJW just go fxxk themselves?,The Game is not bad, but story was so disgusting.,,Story - 0
3631) Most pathetic piece of crap ever, this not even a game, but an extremely cringe movie-like videogame with no interesting content whatsoever. The story is pathetic, gameplay is boring and frustrating, overall this game is cringe and gay. Totally overrated.
3632) I step on shhtt..the nightmare made a nest in my brain and this was very disturbing
3633) SJW trash. The only thing it excels at is ruining the foundation that the first game established.
3634) Absolutely ridiculous  !! How can you kill off one of the most beloved, badass and emotional characters ever in gaming in the first hour as if he’s just a side character.
3635) A complete letdown and a major downgrade on anything character and story related there are only a handful of somewhat decent characters in this god awful cash grab.
3636) worst game of 2020. Don't buy it, save your money and time. Never wanna play it again
3637) The positives: It looks ok (nothing ground breaking) and the fighting mechanics are functional.,Negatives: It takes every virtue signaling trope you can imagine and ham fists it into the game. You will hear the word "bigot" within the first 5 minutes. They really push the narrative that religion is bad if it's Christianity and they went out of their way to make all of the characters as racially diverse as possible, unless of course that means they are a white male.,This could have been a very decent game and very well might be if you turn the sound off... Naughty Dog was trying to make a political stance with this and it ruined the game.
3638) Gameplay - Boring. 95% of the gameplay it's just a trash narrative, with a boring story, stupid character development, without fun things. The action it's not very interesting too, looks like the first game gameplay poorly remade. Also, there's not such a point of immersive gameplay here.,Story - The worst thing here. A horrible story, bad written, that makes a dirty mess on this universe. The character development is horrible, the story is boring and non-sense and it looks like it was written by a 10 years old child. The Naughty Dog was more worried about your ideologies, not worried about the game story.,Graphics - With a "beautiful" downgrade, it looks like the PS3 graphics. Ugly, old and ridiculous. We're on 2020, c'mon! We have a lot of older games with wonderful graphics!,No considerable pros found it. Maybe the soundtrack, but looking it to all of these trash, I can't consider it.
3639) Played 5 minutes and cut the DVD with a scissor. Only  played cuz the gave me game for free when i bough the PS4
3640) I was initially hating on the negative reviewers and planned to redeem this game with the expectation of a stellar 5/5 review. Some critic reviews talked about how this is not supposed to be fun, well it’s a game it should at least be interesting, which it is not. It is neither fun or interesting. It is the first game re-skinned and thoroughly deserves a score of ZERO. This game is not a lesson about violence, it’s a lesson to never trust developers/studios ever again. This game is just a really long  bad movie that doesn’t seem to end. You keep watching because you paid and made it this far, hoping something great happens, but it never does. Reminds me of Seinfeld, the game about nothing. Only difference is, I liked Seinfeld. One could imagine Naughty Dog has been trolling us all along, to build up their brand and our confidence, just to trick us in the end. It wouldn’t surprise me if this were their last game ever because there’s no way they bombed on accident, this was planned, like Jack in Fun with Dick and Jane. I swore never to pre-order gain but this is was supposed to be a safe title. Instead, they did me like Call of Duty before I swore off that franchise. The term that comes to mind is poor, this is just a very poor game. Instructions, sneak, murder, scavenge sneak, murder scavenge. It felt a bit like a home walkthrough, something may catch your attention here and there but uneventful for the most part. Getting away from the story is one thing but this story took zero effort. They could’ve made this game about revenge and still had it be good if they gave two sh!ts about the story writing. It’s as if they were secretly purchased by EA or Activision to capitalize on their last hurrah. It’s as if Ferrari decided to totally destroy their brand by putting out garbage of epic proportions, mind-blowing. It took 7 years for this?!?! I would’ve wiped my a$$ with the booklet if I had purchased the physical game and sold it immediately to mitigate my losses. Never again, fuc* u Naughty Dog.
3641) Terrible story, the levels of disrespect this game shows to the original is insane. Graphics are good but that's about it.
3642) It's bad. This game took the 1st games ending and trashed it. So much wasted potential. They didnt even utilize what makes Ellie special.
3643) This game is raping The Last of Us 1,DO NOT BUY THIS GAME,save your money for better place If you played TLOU1, just leave with good memory If you didn't play TLOU1 and buy this game, you only can feeling pain in your neck. NOTHING MORE
3644) this games suck , there's no sex scene , i think?,i don't know i didn't play the to be honest
3645) The only think I say over this game... IS A TRASH no buy it. Arriba el poderosoMonarcas Morelia extinto.
3646) Gameplay is boring and monotonous. Honestly, the most frustrating generation game for me.
3647) They really looked for worst things they can do in this game and threw it all our face. Joels death was a disrespect to his charecter and the entire fanbase.
3648) I’m sorry, but the way the story flows is just so untasteful. The way they killed Joel so early on is stupid. 20 minutes of context for Abby doesn’t make me feel bad for her. Joel lost everything in the first 20 minutes of the first game and won everyone’s heart. Accordingly, you would think that Ellie would kill Abby in the end... but she doesn’t. The whole story is unsatisfying. I HATE ABBY!
3649) Was going to give it a 7 for graphics and just cause i love ellie. Than i realized this was story based and how bad they really did. Story was bad take responsibility
3650) This is not just a bad game, it's a great example of how game developers and other entertainment corporations are trying to normalize the LGBT community, but they don't understand that they are doing the same thing as setting their favorite song as an alarm. being good but ended up being so horrible that you won't be able to listen in a long time. We understand that this community has to be normalized, but, without forcing it to normalize, one gets used to the passage of time, not ipso-facto. They killed a character in just two hours to simply force Ellie and Dina's relationship and also put a developer to have sex. The story is very forced and really disappointing. The third installment is usually supposed to be bad after a sequel already, but it didn't take long for them to ruin a saga. Do you want your equality? Here's your damn equality
3651) If you enjoyed the story of the first game at all, stay away...They have completely ruined the characters that the first game set up.
3652) Absolute, sheer, idiocy.  The entire thing is awkward and clumsy.  It's like Druckmann is trying SUPER hard to be edgy and waste beloved characters with a "no one is safe" narrative" whilst forcing some clear agenda down our throats.,,The reason "Game of Thrones" was so successful in this, was because GRRM wasn't getting rid of characters for some political messages for the real world.  He did it because they were well times, and made sense.  This was just downright sloppy and offensive and a slap in the face.  So incredibly forced just to push more "inclusive" archetypes into the narrative.  I would say story, but its not even a story because it's like they just took bullet points and made a script from them.,,Abby is trash.  I don't give a flying farquad if she is non binary, or identifies as a fish or is asexual.  That's all fine and dandy.  I loved Whiterose in Mr. Robot....because she worked and made sense from a narrative standpoint.  There is no "bigotry" or "hate" when fans are uniting across the board to trash this monstrosity (see twitter to notice a LOT of the LGBTQ+ community are also apalled at this analfissure, and fail representation of their community - its so flipping patronizing when you force these things, and its an obvious backhand to anyone who can see it).,,The gameplay is so lackluster.  It's one of the easiest games I have played in the last year or two... It's clunky and the mechanics are all fine but...when I am  given choices and they lead to the same place...its just stupid.,,I'm done.  This was just bad.
3653) The plot arrangement is very weird, and I don’t know what to mean to the player at the end.
3654) Imagine waiting 7 years just for the Father figure of the game dies bruh!,It freaking hurts man.,I don't even get it.,It's so messed up
3655) Disgrace to the videogame industry. First they delayed cause of the pandemic to potentially garner more profit, got leaked, and they are releasing it early. Played the game and it's even worse. They have to make all kinds of excuse, this doesn't justify how bad the story telling is. They are blaming nothing to blame but themselves.
3656) First half is ok but the second half is totally disappointing. It’s a trash game. They have ruined the game by pushing political agendas. Don’t waste money on this garbage. I just hate abby character. What to do with the graphics when the story is trash. Don't fall for paid reviews.Believe me this game is trash
3657) Complete garbage SJW ВULLSHIТ. Naughty dog is officially cancelled as a game company keep ignoring users.  Nothing new in the game. Where's next gen stuff where's progress. The story is a pice of **** The worst game in the history of GAMING! No one believes your bought critics reviews.
3658) I loved the first game. I loved the characters. But: I loved the Story. It was not black and white: You had to make your own mind about it.,I cried.,Then, this pile of **** comes out. I played through the first 5 hours - after 3 hours I had the Urge to throw out my ps4:,It just is not satisfying. I want a good Story and not some lbgtqWHATEVER junk which focuses more about that than a good Story.,I feel like the most Important part of the story is that someone is gay and not what he does.,This completely destroys the narrative as if they really were "the last of us". The story is a mess, 0/10, do not reccommend.,Graphis are 9/10 though.
3659) Don't give them your money please!!! Don't buy it. The way Naughty Dog treats the characters is next-level bad writing. I can't even enjoy the first game after this experience.
3660) This is a sequel no one ever wanted. Its a mere cash grab what I think of it. Its a surprise how the characters in this game don't have a proper development. This game is nothing but an utter disappointment.
3661) Very disappointed. The unique good thing in this game is the graphics and the audio, Just it. The rest is a ****
3662) Im a living person in south east asian but according news article im just a russian bot.. And the way this game treat joel is unbelievable.
3663) **** this game It's make me feel bad,If you like The Last of Us one Please don't buy this ****
3664) This game is the best in being worst. I'd rather spend my $60 on a whore for a bj instead of buying this sh*t.
3665) Im sad more than angry actually, they ruined an amazing game with this **** ass sequel, like they always do with sequels i guess... i cant believe it, i refuse to believe this **** game even exists.
3666) Such a huge blow after years of waiting. "Critic" reviews are either fake or bought. How a game with nonsense game's plot, frustrating new characters can have 95 metascore. While this is technically a good game, the plot/characters is so bad, rest just doesn't matter. How can you enjoy emptiness without any meaning. If you're reading this and love game for its plot/characters, AVOID this game.
3667) Why the hell was I made to play as Abby!? I did not care about her play through, her friends or her back story. The game is nothing like the first and I'm really disappointed in Naughty Dog. The graphics were really good but that's not what The Last of Us is about. It's about the relationship between characters, the intimate conversations and the tiny glimpse of hope that was left in that world which was Joel and Ellie. The game was unrecognizable and the marketing was false. Part 2 doesn't exist for me.
3668) This is just disgusting. I am so disappointed. I expected so much but I got utter trash.
3669) I hate you Druckman , what the **** are you doing ??? You kill the great game
3670) The way the story went didnt fulfill a good end to our main character Joel, and there's a useless part where we don't control Ellie. And the ending? Even worse.... Visuals are fine, and good gameplay mechanics thought, maybe because are exactly the same as the first part
3671) This game had so much going on for it instead after a few time playing it you feel the same repetitive action over and over again.,Only for when you finnally reach the end amd you think the gamecis going one direction but it tottally disappoints you.
3672) While the last of us 2 has amazing graphics it fails to tell a great story. I did pre order this game and I ended up getting this game a day before it was released in the mail. My excitement was short lived. It was an extremely disappointing experience after finishing the game. It was hard to even on after the first 2 hours of playing. It's a far cry from the first game. The first game was not only visually stimulating but also gameplay was amazing and you fell in love with the story. There was so much development with the characters Ellie and Joel. It told a story that you invest yourself into. The last of us 2 did nothing of the sort. The character building was sadly missing. Where you thought that you would be able to play both characters that you so loved from the first one we were all sadly scammed. That's right, I said scammed into thinking we would get to explore Joel and Elle's relationship as they got older together. What they did to Joel was Savage. We all know that main characters die all the time but normally not in such an unsatisfactory way. It was like a f-you Joel you deserve an ugly death. It wasn't the fact that he died but the fact of how they did it. Abby's an extremely unlikable character. The game fails in making  her relatable or likable. It forces you to play her after she has already clearly been designated as the villain in this story. It was basically torture having a play Abby through half of the game. You think eventually that she'll have some redeeming quality but it never happens.This game could have been amazing, it could have been great, it could have been epic but now it's just an epic fail. Granted if you hadn't had played the first game and grown to love Joel and Elle and how they are together, this one wouldn't be that bad of a game. It's still not that good of a standalone game though. I waited for this game for a long time and it was definitely disappointing. If I could get my money back I would. Naughty Dog has definitely betrayed their fans.
3673) It’s just sad how they treated some of the most lovable characters in all of gaming history, and make us play for most of the game with the character that pretty much humiliated them both.
3674) Awfully forced minority agenda, just awful, don't play this, if they want to give the game to you as a gift, just take it and re sell it on gamestop's.
3675) It a trash... avoid at all cost... the most disgusting game i ever seen... make me more disgusting is they paid reviewer to give high rating..avoid it..
3676) This happens when a bad idea cross its path with a triple A budget. A piece of **** that looks amazing.
3677) That game is an absolute insult to all the fanbase! Ellie goes on a killing spree after Abby kills Joe,  and pretty much everybody Ellie loves.,The story is a nonsensical revenge journey that does not pay off in the end!,Save your money!
3678) Suffered everytime I had to use this abby muscle girl, hate the end and the beginning of the game(more like the graphics were good the story was trash) what a way to ruin an amazing story
3679) Recently, I really think why people who don’t play games can directly affect the control of our little world!,We just want to play a game!,Can the so-called political concepts be thrown into reality?,We tired because of reality but I still need to see real problems in the game?,Nice job!
3680) the worst story ever told in a game if you can even call it a story from how bad it is, and one of the main characters (Joel) just gets killed of when the game have barely begun and in the lamest way too, don't buy this game, save your money for a title that's actually worth it.
3681) Gameplay without good story is trash i don't know what n******  dog thinking about .
3682) The last of us part 2 what I can say , it was disappointing in so many ways ! The first one will always be in my heart !
3683) Graphics and gameplay are good, generally the game is easier than the first one but the writing and story are just terrible.
3684) Huge disappointment. Do not waste your money on that garbage. This game has nothing common with the first one bad drama, bad character and the bad gameplay. Got to the part of the game where you have to play for a manbearpig woman - this is where the game end up for me.
3685) I totally agree with most of the users. Who's next? Drake? Bandicoot? Dumb decision making, unlikable characters, outdated gameplay, full of plotholes.
3686) The story is very disappointing. It doesn't make any sense. It's a shame towards the 1st series of this game
3687) This game was awful, bad story, forced inclusivity made for bad plot points, dumb ending. Why did i have to use Abby???? Joel why!?! Ellie whyyy!? I’ll pretend the sequel never existed. Bad writing
3688) I'm devastated. Don't buy this game. You will be disappointed and heartbroken! Don't do this to yourself. I despise absolutely everything about it! The monster who made this is disrespecting and insulting the Fandom and will not be forgiven. What has been done cannot be undone.
3689) There's only one thing I can say for this game that has never happened for any other game I've ever played on the first day I received it. I FELL ASLEEP! Not out of too much playtime, no, I was 2 hours in and I was literally just bored, trying to keep my eyes open to get through it. I had plenty of sleep so I wasnt just sleepy or anything. Because of this phenomena that has never happened to me out of every other game I've played before, this score is not unwarranted. Thank you
3690) The story is completly traaaash,No good gamplay,No good graphics,And not all the people support the gays,So they didn't recpect a lot of people
3691) gameplay - 0/10,graphics - 0/10,story - 0/10,character 0/10,this game suck. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 80 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
3692) Actually game has a very good grapichs and conrtol but the game story is so weak I want  to see better story but I can't see. as I said, the only thing that's good is the graphics.
3693) This game is a disgrace following in the footsteps of this LGBTQ whatever crap is going on now days.,,This is sad that our children will grow up seeing this in all their games thinking it is "normal" .,,Kids today dont know what they want or who they are and its sickening to see the direction this is going.
3694) Horribly old gameplay, too cliché story, boring in long stretches, I don't even recommend this garbage for free
3695) I feel a wild hatred for the flow of sexual minorities in the gaming industry. Games should be for players!!!
3696) Ok well, I’m not gonna say anything, if you have played the game, you probably know why, yup? I consider myself a tolerant person, but the there is some **** called exaggeration, which Naughty Dog guys forgot the meaning of. There is some sort of things I can comprehend, somehow, but exaggeration have never been in that group.
3697) Why would they do the fans of this game so dirty? Just pandering to game awards and LGBTQ+ folk for no reason other than causing drama. Just make games for the games sake and stop this pseudopolitical garbage. There is a lot of great game design in here but none of it came from Neil Druckmann.
3698) Killing off Joel because Fu*k you, and then going in a killing spree just to not kill the one that made you go in a killing spree. Wow what the writers were on when they wrote this forced **** of a story for a game like last of us. The whole games story is so forced that it feels disgusting playing this ****.,Only pros of this game is I would say the graphics and music. Other than that both the gameplay and story is trash. Don't buy.
3699) Can't believe how much I hate this game.....part 1 was possibly the best game ever and part 2 completely flopped in every way possible. Ellie was so cute in the first one, you actually cared what happened to her, now shes an SJW roaming the streets calling people bigots. What a waste of $65
3700) Give it up to SJW to f*king kill the story of one of the most popular zombie games. Wow i didnt want to see some transgender having sex and two lesbians making out wow what a tragic story LMAO WORST GAME OF 2020 May naughty dog company go bankrupt
3701) Garbage game with a pretty look. Destroying characters for chock value. Main characters acting completely out of character. The developers treat the player like an idiot with the plot.
3702) Story is a disgrace to the franchise. Should've left it alone after the first one.
3703) Its sam how they disrespected the first game. They made every singel caracter oblivius and dumb. I cant compare the death of Joel to the death of Lee(walking dead) becuse Lee had a good death and everybody was sad but they understood it. HOW DA **** DOES A GUY AS SMART AS JOEL DIE IN SUTCH A STUPID WAY. Im sorry but the newer game isnt good i dont know how mut you payed the rewyewers to give it a 95 but i hope it was worth it.  Im giving it a 0 but not as a stand alone game  but becuse it didnt live up to its predecasor.
3704) awful, awful story, and uninspired characters and script. What could have been ...
3705) Naughty dog is a great developer n this shows in (last of us part 1 ) which is touch my soul and believe me , my soul is dead and that something,But for (last of us part 2) same aspect of design for maps , animations and fight variations its good enough no judgement but im giving it 0 because id want my favourite game to teach me whats right or wrong and abuse my love for the game for hidden agenda , dont take me wrong im with lgbt rights but dont make the games teach ppl or oppose ppl ideas cause everyone who plays want to escape the world and not live in another idea !!!,Thats real world thinking and now lets jump to in game story changes !!,How the hell ellie became lesbian ? Its only her and joel in the world fighting together hows that possible ?,She was 14 and in that age obviously if the ones is gay it shows !! Why we dont see that in the part 1 ?? Not to mention (left behind) dlc who started the choas in the story Finally :-,The game is owned by the players not the devs So try and listen for ur fan base before make selfish decisions!! And i hope the other devs lrn from naughty dog mistake Thank you for last of us part 1 And i h8 you for ruining my favourite game in the part 2
3706) This game is bassed on the history about the revenge for joel and when u can avenge him u cant do it
3707) I really feel sorry for naughty Dog's talented employees who not only get no credit, but all their efforts are ruined by one person. I think that people can continue to revel in his world, self think players around the world philosophy level is too low, thinks he's a man with great work to complete, but at least he should have taken the time to answer the following three questions: why disrespect Asian, maybe it is a joke, but do the write dare to change the lines to black people or Jews instead? Second, why is the trailer inconsistent with the content of the game and seriously misleading the players? Who should be responsible for this behavior of misleading consumers with false advertisements? Third, which feminist and LGBT groups are recognized for the description of LGBT and women in the game? Does this kind of stereotyping perpetuate LGBT and feminist stereotypes and incite hatred?
3708) The story was too underwhelming, the characters were predictable and the ending could be described as nothing but a complete failure
3709) Not a game per se.,Pure political propaganda.,Anyone who even tried to play can relate.,@Gamergate
3710) I don’t know where to begin, but I’ll start with the positives, decent gameplay and great graphics. But that won’t cut it for a story game. This game is a shameful excuse for a sequel and a waste of $60. And for people who think this game is getting review bombed because of LGBTQ themes, fans adored the first game and even the DLC which is entirely about a lesbian relationship. That excuse is invalid. I can’t believe you waited seven years with this!
3711) The story is just terrible. The direction they took just makes no sense at all. Cool if people like the gameplay, graphic, whatever. But if you're like me and measure a story driven game by the story itself, then avoid this at all costs.
3712) The Last Jedi Season 2 is here,or Game of Thrones part 2.,,Through this game we can understand the greatness of
3713) A dumpster fire with a burning rotten dog carcass inside, the developers want to present to you as as bouquet of Roses. Human misery simulator, there's nothing redeeming about this game. The only good thing it does is exposing the blatant corruption of payed reviewers. Stick to the first game, and pretend its the last one, Part II will ruin even the first if you play it. Gameplay 7.  Graphics 9. Story 0. Overall 0
3714) This game is not as good as some may say. if you like a slow game that is stealth based then maybe. dont buy this game if you want action or a fast pace. the graphics are better than uncharted but the rest of the game is worse. the controls suck and are sluggish. the combat is so bad that you almost have to play the game stealthy. not worth $60. maybe worth $30 for a used copy if you really want to play it. dont buy this game expecting alot other than good graphics and keep you hopes low so maybe you wont be disappointed. just my opinion but this game is WAY over rated.
3715) How did you mess this up so bad???? I want a refund. Marketing completely lied to me about what I should be expecting. What the heck is with all the bait and switch?
3716) My day is ruined. What a disappointing,,boring story and snow is suck as fff
3717) The grahics look good but the story is really bad especially the end. We wanted to play more with Joel.
3718) Gameplay: 10/7,Graphics: 9/10 depressing colors,Story: 0/10 This game is nothing like we promised or saw in trailers
3719) Really bad story. How can they even think it will work? It is messed up. Game has character driven story and they ruined characters. Characters handled badly. Game also have serious pacing problems.
3720) Oof where do I start? Well the game is hot garbage with forced Identity politics and an agenda that is forced down your throat. Unlikable and uninteresting characters and a storyline written like a fan-fiction by an angry and confused teenager.The gameplay is pretty outdated and it barely improved since the previous game.,On top of that- it turned out that all the leaks were true and the game was false advertised in the trailers and commercials. The game looks graphicaly pretty good but it doesn’t matter because you have to torture yourself with 30 fps. 10/10  Ign? haha the User score shows you the real and only rating that matters here people. Verdict: DO NOT BUY
3721) Are you kidding me!!!!!! How can you people destroy beloved characters in that way. No respect just to add some bull character no one cares about. Then forcing you to play as that character. Dont get me started on the script, who the hell wrote this **** This game will be an example to not prioritize agendas ahead of a story driven game. The story everyone waited for so many years completely destroyed in this trash. Naughty Dog your costumers dont want this!!!! We never wanted this, WE WILL NEVER WANT THIS!!!!
3722) Joel gets killed by a trans and at the end you cant even avenge him, the end sucks and the plot is lacking quality storytelling.
3723) Played it just upset waited so long for this game and this is what we get .....At the end of the day to me no one wins in this game but did return it was able to get my refund. Well got store credit gift card.
3724) If you love the first game and the characters don t play this.,The Gameplay are so damm similar with one or two better things.,The Grafics are not so impressed. The comercial on tv shows a different thing.,I spending money to play 50% of the game with characters that i hate every second of gameplay.,Shi* story. Predictalbe. I have cried two times in the beginning and ending. In some moment in the ending my Thoughts don t belive the reality the story push to us down the throat. The game just give me sadness and revolting feelings. #IWantForgetThisGame.
3725) If you are a Last of us part 1 fans, you will feel physical pain and sick in the stomach when you play as Abby, after her brutally murder Joel(because he killed her father in part 1) within 100 mins into the game. Also worth mention that Joel just walk into a room full of strangers(Abby and her friends), without any hesitation or suspicious, and said to everybody, “Hey, I’m Joel.” and JUST LIKE THAT, get himself killed. :),Will never purchase any game from naughty dog from now on to the end of my life:)
3726) So Disappointed. I was expecting a better and more intelligent story... Graphics, mechanics and game play are great, but the story is just disappointing.
3727) The story is very boring and there is an anomaly in thinking.  The worst game I have ever had
3728) Worst game since metal gear survive... killing the main character is dumb idea dear naughty dog fire the one who’s responsible for this garbage game
3729) Graphics -TLoU2 > TLoU1.,Gameplay -TLoU2 >TLoU1.,Story - TLoU1 > TLoU2.,(Soundtracks are wonderful
3730) Music: 9 out of 10,Graphics: 9 out 10,Gameplay: 6 out of 10 boring, no ground-breaking changes from the prequel,Story: Absolute Garbage out of 10
3731) Actually my note would be a 7 out of 10 but it is not correct, the game takes you from one side to the other. You have to understand that humanity is always disgusting for it "Truth Is Stronger Than Fiction" and although this closely resembles Reality does not leave it for you or me, it has several flaws in empathy towards the characters.,Play it.
3732) Graphics and gameplay have not progressed from the original. The storytelling is awful. The characters decisions are irrational. Your forced to play as a character most fans of the series arent going to like. The last of us was one of my favorite games ever. The last of us part 2 is a dumpster fire. As a longtime fan i am incredibly disappointed.
3733) Liberal agenda and bad story destroy the game. Naughty dog should apologize to the fans and turn this episode uncanon.
3734) I played the previous work, but I feel sad as such a player.,I can not help feeling empathy for the character whose operation changes from the middle, and I can not help doing it.
3735) Absolute garbage game. Dont ever buy another game by naughty dog. Dont believe all the perfect scores. They're lies and obviously paid off.
3736) They should put these graphics in the old TLOU call it a Remaster and call it a day, TLOU has way better story
3737) Extremely boring...I would not recommend it to my worst enemy, seriously think about it..
3738) Good  action,Good graphics,Good game play,Poor story,inconsistent character settings,I don't get why the rating of this game is 95 Meta-score now...,It seems that there is a problem with character settings due to too much focus on political correctness.
3739) Naughty dog should be ashamed of themselves,absolute disrespect towards the 1st game...
3740) I had to make an account just to write this and I gotta say, after seeing the spoilers It makes you not want to buy the game and honestly it’s best to look for yourself. It’s hard to believe after how great the first one was. Mild spoiler but if you loved the first game, be prepared to be disappointed in the first hours of the game. This whole story has no purpose, there is no lesson to be learned... great visuals but people are here for the story. Major disappointment and such disrespect for the last of us community.
3741) The game misses the most important thing that makes a TLOU game a TLOU game: STORYTELLING The game still has amazing dialogues, but that means nothing when the whole narrative is filled with plot holes. On top of that there is almost 0 innovation in TLOU2 gameplay whise, it’s basically the same game with a visual upgrade and a plot downgrade + it pushes several nonsensical agendas which don’t belong in a post apocalyptic game and for the most part not in any game period.,The only reason I am not giving this game a 0/10 is the amazing work the art and sound teams did and I don’t want to disrespect their and ONLY their work. Overall the game is a 4/10 because of that for me.,Edit: I‘ve changed my mind. Because they are blacklisting Metacritic to block bad reviews it’s a 0/10 for me. They even removed some negative reviews. Corruption at its finest.
3742) Even worst of the final of GOT... why? The only positive thing is the graphics...
3743) **** story, boring gameplay. More sjw bull**** ruining the gaming industry.
3744) The game is bad. Not only for its forced LGBTQ agenda. But for destroying loved characters. The gameplay itself is okay...not good, not bad. Overall i had low expectations because of the negative publicity it recieved prior to its release. But even so, i got disappointed
3745) horrible story, horrible characters, horrible ideology that destroyed a great game
3746) Spoiler alert. Disgusting storyline. Killing Joel is insulting for fans. Awful playing. Its like interactive movie. Whenever you dive in playing, the game interrupts with long cinematic. The player cannot decide the fate of the characters or the game itself. Whatever important happens for the story it happens in cinematic. Horrible ending
3747) Listen to the fan base and step down Druckkman you have ruined the last of us.
3748) The game is an offense to fans, as they have completely reversed the characters' personality and conduct in addition to humiliating the protagonists.  Shamelessly with ideological and political bias.  A total mess.
3749) If you enjoyed the first The Last of Us and you don't know what PC Culture is you won't like it,And if you were invested in Ellie and Joel both will get murdered and you play the character who murders them in the second half of the game
3750) I waited 7 years just to get this dissapointment. The characters act illogical and then get thrown in the trash. Also they try to push their agenda in the game. Thank you for that Neil Druckmann and Anita Sarkeesian. I hope you and the "new" Naughty Dog get fired and the old team come back. Normally i would give the game a 1/10 but because of the lies it's 0/10. Get woke go broke!
3751) I am dissapionted and been hurt to the soul.,Worst game i have ever played.,Nice graphics and mechanics killed by molronic story and character degradation and elimination.,Its a pity I cant get my money back.,Please dont buy this, you will fill the same way, we do not desefve this.
3752) pro-SJW_trash game, afwul design, the game is made mostly for retarded american audience which is destroying their country right now, you know, if the game is made based on what those idiots like, no, thank you, there's no way this game can good, btw so called "Critic Reviews" are paid off
3753) The game is hard to get through. It becomes more dull and less motivating as you are forced to go down a route that you do not want to. Once you think it’s over, the story swaps characters and you find out that you’re not even halfway done with the game.,Sequels should be made for the fans... not for the Vice President.,+1 Inclusivity,+2 Gameplay,+2 Music,+2 Graphics,+3 Accessibility Features,-3 Confusing portions due to lying trailers,-3 Allowing a single arrogant man to have this much unchecked power over a game,-4 Terrible story in arguably the most story based game ever made
3754) Well done, I don't recognize this game as a Last of Us. Characters made no sense, and are not relatable. STOP pushing agenda into media
3755) I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say,I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is oo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is homo, the story is awful. No more to say I don't care if Ellie is
3756) The story and the way it was put together was a mess. Gameplay I like being it like the first but it’s story is boring :(
3757) 4/10,--------,THIS IS NOT A perfect 10 / 10 like the stupid butt licking critics say. F right off.. this game is NOT a 10/10 it's NOT a 9 or 8 .. it's a 4! A 4/10 !!!!!,Visually it looks good and music is ok.. but the story.. the god damn story is so ****,Have to give it a 0 to balance out the stupid score that critics are giving it.
3758) have no respect for the original game and fan,there was not enough directing for gamers to understand the new relationship
3759) Surprised Pikachu meme never been so demand like now. Greatest disaster of game industry so far,Well done
3760) Disgusting! Stop being politacily correct and ruin my games! The way you ruined Overwatch with the disgusting gay agenda! And you metacritic should be ashamed of that score! F off
3761) Very boring game, made for 'social justice warriors' people. Very boring game, made for 'social justice warriors' people.
3762) Pandering to the alphabet people and feminists with the inclusion of Anita Sarkeesian in the game's development. What a joke! I loved the first game, they completely dropped the ball with this one. It's full of propaganda. The females all look so anti feminine and the men are their punching bags, i feel insulted as a woman. We need strong men for god sake. I want to play a game so I can escape and not feel like I am having political messages shoved down my throat. That's why we play video games in the first place right? I don't care about inclusion, I just want a good story and for it to feel natural.
3763) inclusive forced **** this is making the game comunity tired. bad story, bad gameplay, this is a seven hours interactive movie with nothing but meaningless thing that dosen't help the principal story
3764) .,Goddammit ND! After all I see in Part 2 (Joel, Tommy death SJW  agen da) you ruined like Star Wars 7-9 my story
3765) "It can't all be for nothing." Well, it was. You can thank Druckman for being completely spineless.
3766) The worst sequel I've ever played. I wish the director will loose job. Story and character sucks and left-wing propaganda hurt.
3767) The worst game i have ever played.,The characters suck, The story sucks, The gameplay is boring, And Naughty Dog can suck an egg. Skrew you  social justice warriors.
3768) Too much pandering, story is a dumpster fire. I like to believe that this whole game just isn't canon.
3769) Well, that was 7 years of waiting right down the freaking trashcan. Great seing new gen gameplay but this game absolutely destroyed my childhood and this was the WORST gaming experience ive ever had with a game. I would rather play league of legends with 9 people flamming me for 5000 hours than support this game.
3770) Everything that we loved in 1 part was destroyed. We have here a meaningless story, characters without depth.  And a false advertisement in trailers. Damn, I prefer to think that the continuation was never made.
3771) and is this a sequel to a good game???,go hell w/that propaganda lgbt sheet
3772) Mediocre gameplay and the story stinks, what I see is a lot of company’s scared to give this bad game a bad review because the game touches some ‘woke’ subjects but the truth is, the gamers arent waiting for this. If sony wants to show true lgbt support they should change their saudie arabie twitter account to a pride logo but they are to scared. Its probally more like a 6,5/10 then a 0 but im giving it to make a point that im sick of these woke subjects. Part1 of TLOU2 was a way better experience!
3773) The story was completely ruined and the choices that were done for you were brainless.
3774) Another game that anita sarkeesian destroyed it with wokeness..... just stop this for god sake ....it doesn't matter if the women empowered or a guy is gay or eli is lesbian (has mentall disorder in my view)....it doesn't make the game great if you change the protagonist gender or do any **** stuff like this!!! just stop.....
3775) The last of us 2 is awful. Screenwriters don't have the slightest literary literacy. The script they write is a piece of **** You killed Joel, i do understand what you want players to think, but at least let us choose whether to kill Abby or not. You don't want to give us chance to choose, then I will give you 0 point.,Marijuana, bisexual, homosexual, and some other things you want to show in this game is not in line with mainstream values. I live in Japan so I really don't care about these. What we care about is a murderer killed players' favorite character in this game and we do had a chance to get revenge after hard work, but this chance was taken away by Naughty Dogs.,Listen, don't think everyone's been kidnapped by political correctness, IF YOU WANT A CHANCE TO FORGIVE YOUR ENEMY, I WISH THERE IS A CHANCE TO MAKE YOUR DAD BE KILLED LIKE THAT.
3776) I just love and embrace the game, " The Last of Us", because it was the first game i ever played in PS, in that time it was in PS3, my first PS... It's why that game it was and it is everything to me...,If you guys could saw my happiness when I knew that naughty dog it was making the second one... i have so much things to say but, you all now what it is...me and you all, waited 7 years, 7 years  for this...,l just wish things could have been done differently, like you guys wish to...,Sorry naughty dog, but I'm disappointed...
3777) I don't think they made "honor" to the first episode. They just emasculated everything.. I don't feel comfortable with it! And the storyline... please stop... Shame ...
3778) Cant enjoy this game as political agendas keep being pushed on you. Cant enjoy any game these days without a LGBTQ  agenda, I'd be returning the game and requesting a full refund.
3779) Can’t belive i’m waiting for this game About 7 years. Cantttttt beliveeeeee
3780) The dead of joel was bad, why it has so homosexuality, bad game experience with the console overheating and shutting down
3781) I give it a 1 for graphics. Everything else is garbage. If I wanted politics I'd watch the news.
3782) This game is not worth your money! Messed up such a good game. I expected a better sequel than this. Awful, just awful. SAVE YOUR MONEY!
3783) Spoiler alert. First I hate LGBT for game, im not hate to lgbt people, i just hate with if this thing too much seen in the game. Everything contain lgbt, i want to but the console limited edition, the collector edition, but you screw this with the lgbt leaf logo. F**k druckman!!! Second I hate the leak. So next time you must be careful with your game man!!! Just done the job secure the story. You can call intelligent or something
3784) Yeah, every single aspect of this game is forced. An agenda is forced down your throat and a terrible story is forced down your throat. So let me get this straight Joel saves Abby and the second she finds this out without hesitation kills him with Ellie watching???? Then Ellie vows to kill Abby and at the end leaves her family to kill Abby then when the time comes let’s it live??? The game ends with Ellie’s family gone, her not being able to play the guitar because Abby bit 2 fingers off her???? And that’s it that’s it???? This is the game that gets a 95 metacritic???
3785) It's like the let a new character into episode 160 of Naruto and kill Sasuke in the first 4 minutes with a sling shot pebble.
3786) "The Last of Us: Part 2 has no competition among current single-player survivals in terms of playability, atmosphere, graphics, sound or storytelling skills. Naughty Dog has once again confirmed that it belongs at the absolute top of the game." dock
3787) They **** killed the game. this is not cannon and this should not exist. im pissed
3788) How remarkable that Neil really forgot that the story is about people and the game is made for people.
3789) Incredible boring and absolutely frustrating game. Don't recommend to anyone. Would be better if this game doesn't exist
3790) A game that fools it’s player base thinking, they’re gonna play Joel, by continuing to showing him on their game trailers and the „100 % Journalist“ reviews, while getting any people banned or silenced all over the internet on very different platforms for which most they didn’t have the right for. Where were these „Journalists“ then?,,Anyway, so instead of Joel you get forced to play half of the game with shehulk, which you simply don’t feel for. The game tries so hard to make you feel sad or be in pain, when the only painful thing is this game itself, playing it feels like getting tortured.,,Overall a very boring game with terrible storytelling and characters, definitely the WGOTY, the „W“ stands for „Worst“ obviously!
3791) SJW Game about an annoying dull teen, who can't survive 1 minute without swearwords and edgy dialogues. Zero personality, zero soul. Just a tedious story with beautiful graphics.
3792) This game is an absolute disgrace and is a **** joke to the masterpiece the was the first one do not waste your money on this joke of a **** game is HORRID.  After this I just say boycott Naughty Dog completely if this is the quality they're going to dish out and how they treat loyal costumers by releasing this DOG **** Then all i can say is never again Do not rent this game, Do not borrow this game and most importantly  DO NOT BUY this game is a piece of **** trash 0 out of **** 10.
3793) Naughty dog have taken everything good about the first game and taken a dump all over it.
3794) Don't buy this game, it's ghastly. The story is poorly written with lot of plot holes and a story that is pointless. The flow of the story is badly arranged and in no way do you feel anything for the new character that is trans. The ending is the worst gaming ending in history of gaming. It would work if Ellie wasn't a murderer, but she has killed dozens of people to get to the end. No person would not kill Abby the trans and Lev the asian boy.
3795) Extremely bad writing. Horribly tedious game pacing. No good graphics could save this game.
3796) Neil, I do not know what you did with the story, you ruined the childhood of many and one of the best games of the decade, this story is super lousy, this game is not worth buying, I regret spending 60 dollars, for me it only exists The Last of Us 1.
3797) Very bad game. There is no normal plot. Do not be fooled or waste money on this game.
3798) This game is an absolute garbage in all aspects and definitely it is Failure of The Year,This game is an absolute garbage in all aspects and definitely it is Failure of The Year
3799) What an absolute piece of garbage, I’d never recommend to anyone that they should play this game, how in the world are you creating a story driven game, with an absolute trashy story
3800) Maybe the best graphics until the moment, but all the LGBT Agenda ruined the game, Naughty Dog turned a good history in a pile of ... its a shame end the game like this.
3801) The game can't be saved by a fresh coat of paint. They story which is what we all held fondly in memory as one of the best games in history, is reduced to a pandering mess.,,Graphics   2/10 sorry but they look like a slight upgrade to the remaster.,Audio    2/10 felt like remixed audio from Part 1.,Gameplay 5/10 till you're forced to play as Abby then it drops to -10/10.,Story    0/10 POINTLESS read on to see why.,Killing off Joel feels as if it was only done for shock effect to illicit an emotional response and set up a WEAK story. In part one Joel kills hundreds of enemies human and infected. We're meant to believe this 1 person, who developers put that moral dilemma on us the player kill as the pivotal one? This was the entire plot for this game?,,You then force us like HALO 5 (and we all remember how that played out) to play as the one person who NO ONE cares for due to her actions. We have no attachment to nor do we want any for Abby.,,Elle then goes on her rage filled killing/torturing journey. She kills hundreds only to come face to face with Abby and what does she do? She lets her go! So all the people we've killed all our actions throughout the game are POINTLESS.,,BTW how can you tell the writing is weak? Elle tortured a person goes back and flirts with her girlfriend (and the romance is so badly written.) Ashley Johnson is an amazing Actress/Voice actress the script is so bad it felt like she was phoning it  in waiting for the real script.,,Scenes ripped from Walking dead and Lord of the Rings:,Frodo Vs Golem (fight for power and Frodo loses he finger, it gets bitten off),Elle and Abby fight for who will live (spoiler Elle is winning and just gives up and lets her go after Abby bites off her fingers that is.),Glen Vs Negan (Joel is shot in the knee and is in a kneeling position when Abby bashes in his head with a golf club),Stuff like this pops up everywhere in the game cause they had no clue how to write this game.,,How Original and Progressive!,,NaughtyDog and Neil Druckmann I hope you never destroy another game again.
3802) Deep lack of creativity of developers is beyond me. Unnecessarily brutal, flat with non-existent story, just revenge massacre. Plus slap in the face to all fans.
3803) a massive spit in the face to the entire TLOU fan base... sadly is has come to this
3804) It is not The last of us. It is bad movie about revenge. If it was a different game, then you would be forgiven for it. but you destroyed my favorite game. hate you neil.
3805) Just finished the whole game, it could have ended after 2 hours tbh, not because of certain event, but because it actually felt like TLOU, after that it's basically a very very poorly written storyline, everything they tried to tell us about different perspectives in life, the good guy and bad guy are subjective were garbage, although i kinda enjoyed the ending, SPOILERS NOW, and for christ sakes playing with a different character and doing the most boring and pointless tasks just so we can feel sorry for the new characters for half of the game was the worst.
3806) Graphics only. Maybe online would be fun but not story.ill be looking forward to play online and try to forget that lame story.
3807) Just why ruin the whole game with that terrible ending?!? You kill off Joel then make me play the **** that kills Joel just for her to beat the main character up just for me to play as Ellie again to not kill Abby and not avenge Joel’s death. I spent $75 and wasted 30+ hours just for you guys to spit in my face with this with this garbage story. The gameplay was good but the story killed it.
3808) The worst game in history.,I can't trust NaughtyDog.,The story was ugly, the main characters were miserable.
3809) Missed chance for LGTBQ characters to properly be included as main characters in gaming. Their sexual orientation matters more than the plot and is only there so that Druckmann(game director) can push his political agenda into a beloved game. Save your money and act like this never existed.
3810) Hey goy, where's your rock? I looked away for one minute and it's gone. I guess I'm just a stupid goy.
3811) There is more money and less brains, because of this you began to play on people’s niche feelings, it looks silly and the plot is written for 15 year old **** you defiled the honor of Joel, Neil Druckmann, you would write scripts for the game of thrones
3812) You know why it is 0.  Horrible story and character design. And those media which gave high scores to this game just make is even worse.
3813) Awful game and ending. I can't believe the awful gameplay. Disgraceful graphics and promotion by this company.
3814) It is so sad to see what studio naughty dog became after letting people lile anita sarkeesian in their creative process. I have always been of their game since crash bandicoot and jak and daxter is still to this day my favorite game. But man the last of us make me wanna cry about how politics changed the video game industry... RIP naughty dog, you were one of the best out here
3815) The game looked great. Thats it . Terrible story. Bad writing. Even worse is that it totally disrespected what every fan wanted. Neil Druckman is a terrible person and an even worse video game designer.
3816) To Joel's death!,Go **** yourself with your femmes and LGBT people.,Well, the graphics are nice.,Music class and gameplay
3817) Extremely repetitive gameplay and ruined all the promise of a good story, and it took 7 years for that
3818) pleace dont waste your time and mony its really doesn't worth it this game is so disappointing and I really dont blame Neil Druckmann for that the only one should be blamed is the one who put Druckmann in charge of writing this game **** you.
3819) The gameplay hasn't changed one bit the graphics are good the story is trash I want to forget about this game never going to buy a naughty dog game ever again.
3820) tlou part one is great but this is pathetic i can't play this anymore. I hate guys who is making fabular
3821) I waited 7 years for this sequel as did millions of fans. The Last of Us (Part 1 I suppose) had great gameplay, an amazing cast of characters, and was beautifully written. It was an almost universally loved game, dare I say a masterpiece. After many years of anticipation are theorizing, we were given the garbage that is The Last of Us Part 2. A gorgeous game with fantastic gameplay was butchered with identity politics / pandering and terrible story decisions. A certain someone died, that isn't the issue. It is how and why he died. He was a complete badass in the first game and almost had a war hero vibe about him. Very smart and careful (same for his brother), you're telling me he just trusts everyone and gives out his name after what happened in the first game? Gimme a break. Then there's another elephant in the room: playing as a complete nobody and a MA'AM with no emotional journey who happens to be the person who kills our hero, you know an actually liked and developed character from the past. There is also the way the developers (a certain one especially) treated the situation of the earlier leaks (thank God for that since I saved my money). Striking down channels for opinions, really? They mad an already bad situation significantly worse. I personally was hoping the leaks were fake, but seeing how Naughty Dog and Sony responded, I knew there was something up. This game is comparable to the terrible writing and treatment of fans that took place with Star Wars: The Last Jedi, along with Game of Thrones S8. It's a shame what the industry is has turned into. All these so-called "critics" giving this game flawless reviews are no more than yes-men and "woke" social justice warriors (who may I remind you don't care about the story and canon). I can probably write more, but let this be a lesson Naughty Dog and Sony. You lost a long time fan. This was going to be the reason I got my PS5 (I sold my PS4 Pro earlier). I no longer plan on getting one thanks to the handling of this. Congrats, you lost money
3822) A **** of game with a **** of ending. A piece of **** **** giveme my money back ****
3823) This game negatively destroys whatever had done in the first game. The story is trash with terrible characters and ending that made no sense. Everything that you loved about the first game will not find it here. Don’t buy this game. Don’t support games like this that destroy franchises and push an agenda without caring about its fanbase. This is the cancer of gaming.
3824) You guys should have ended the story by leave that girl lover girl at hospital, world saved and Joel just back his way instead of that poor story. That would be 100000% better. Sorry for people who bought this game.
3825) good graphics. story is meh. gameplay: everage. don't want play cause trash.
3826) You all know what happens by now. But you know what’s the worst thing? They actually managed to ruin the first game. Imagine how bad you have to be at writing if you’re able to do that. I loved part 1, it’s in my top three of best games ever. I wish I could unsee everything that has happened in part 2. I wish only part 1 existed and it was just an open end.
3827) Can someone give me a better reason for Ellie not killing Abby?  After seeing Joel being brutally murdered, Ellie got angry and went to get revenge, although it failed but a year later, after hearing about Abby, she left her whole family to get revenge but then when she was about to finish  purpose Joel "appears" and she forgives Abby?  what?  should at least add a few segments to show that Ellie was hesitant about whether to continue revenge or something like that?  The end is absurd to the indescribable, after all if it is impossible to create a good ending like the first part to be remembered, then there is no need to make a disastrous end to achieve the same effect.
3828) I hate gays. I hate lesbians. I hate The Last of Us Part 2,From, TheGaysHater,Thanks
3829) Too much pandering, it's just too much, i have no issue with a bit of pandering, but it seems that in this game, they've made a pandering game with some gameplay on the side, very disappointed
3830) One of the worst game you can play with that. Graphics? Horizon has better. Story? Written by a child or a monkey. Don’t waste your time playing this trash
3831) naughty dog should stop making bad realistic lesbian zombie games and make Jak 4
3832) Wells, we knew When Anita Sarkeesian was in the project this game was **** up, the worst game of all time, please dont give your money to this progre ****
3833) Disgusting plot and characters. The only good thing about this game is freshbacks.
3834) 0/10 is this funny to you? You think this is funny, is that it? You make game of thrones writers look like Christopher Nolan with this game. 0/10.
3835) Not worth our time & money. Neil Druckmann should be known as Drunk man after this disappointing game. Nothing is good about it. The ending sucks. This game just wanna push the illuminati transgender & lesbian agenda. That's all that it cares about. This gme is not fun. Don't ever let the Drunk man make games ever again
3836) Please, save your money. Naughtydog ruined the first game for me forever knowing what happens to Joel and Ellie and the way they forced me to end the game. I just can't even... stick with the first one, you will regret ever playing this
3837) I don’t understand how 95 points can be here. If as short as possible, then,1 - Gameplay. He remained completely from the first part, maximum - they added a couple of new mechanics in the style of controlling the boat (the controls are just awful) and crawls on bungees. NOTHING INNOVATIVE,2 - Graphics. Subjectively, I did not see something wildly new here. The textures are still blurry, models with poor smoothing, in addition, the developers have introduced a disgusting grain effect, which can not be turned off.,3. The story of the game. I will try to do without spoilers. He is just awful. The game seems to mock the feelings of the players. So also in the second half of the game we play for the most dull character who is the antagonist of the game.,,Honestly, it would be better if this scenario remained somewhere at the level of fan fiction, you simply can’t do such a game.
3838) Terrible, terrible disappointment. Save your money, forget about this abomination. Lousy story, politics pushed down your throat, idiotic plot.
3839) my name is neil druckman，you can call me neil **** man，im a **** writer and I love put myself **** habbit into a games which was a masterpiece and turn into a disgusting **** show and make myself broke，and there will be nagthty dog no more。ppl who didnt like this ending I dont care
3840) The leaks are true.... this game is a piece of trash a propaganda short movie nothing more nothing less... it hase nothing to do with last of us.
3841) Game story is terrible, the graphics and animations are very good, but they are not worth it in the end. I feel like this entire franchise has been ruined by this release, also I feel like Naughty Dog falsely advertised what the story is going to about, that's why I'm giving it a 0.
3842) I’m disappointed and sad the last of us was my favorite game but not anymore u ruined everything i really wish part 2 was never made
3843) What can I say? This game is the disappointment of the year. They **** up the entire story.
3844) I really did not expect such a bad story after all these years of waiting. While there were some really good points, most of the games were filled with holes in the plot. It just took elements of what worked in the first game, not understanding what makes them irresistible. I really did not like the game
3845) The game's story is BAD, it's "dark" and depressing just for the sake of it. They disrespected one of my favourite characters of last Gen, and literally spit on his corpse. Not only that, but the way that to his death was badly written, like everything conspired so that Abby  would be attacked by clickers and Saved by Joel, and she had no idea that it was him who killed her father, and just like that, Joel and his brother end  up on the camp of Abby's clan and trust them (even though they have years of experience and know that there bandits and merciless people out there) and are like hi my name is Joel Miller... That's just ridiculous, cartoon level of writing.,Now the ending, my god the ending, Joel dies like 2hours in, so you spend all the journey with Ellie, killing everyone on your way to get to Abby and take revenge, and guess what, REVENGE BAD, she fights her, drwons her, then get a flash back of Joel playing guitar, and then let her go? Like what? What?! You're telling me that the guy who sacrificed the world for you, died because of this decision, and you killed everyone to get to the killer and avenge him, then decide nah, not worth it...,I'm seriously speechless, if you've noticed I haven't talked about anything LGBT or Agenda pushing **** I have no problem with them, my problem with the game goes beyond that, I love old Bioware games, and they already had gay characters, so nothing new.,And talking about nothing new, well, the gameplay hasn't evolved that much, jump button, sprint jump, dodge? I mean it's the same TLOU1 experience expanded in some open areas. I would rather recommend you buy Days Gone you can get it for cheap, has good gameplay and sandbox, and is also a zombie apocalypse game.
3846) 7 years  And Naughty Dog choose to release the game in 2020. Spoiler in April was to warn the people not to play these game. Everyone knows that Joel dies in most brutal way no one would have ever imagined. Critics are paid, worst game ever to be played.The developers have thrown axe on their own foot. And most **** disgusting are the romance scenes which are lesbians and gay type.
3847) This game sucks , story is so **** bad . Game is disgusting, worst game on the PS4. The Last Of Us 1 was gold .
3848) Worst story ever, whoever spent 7 years writing this story and thinking it was going to impress fans really needs to rethink their job.
3849) Im sorry for this game... the game story is so bad that bad word is too good word for the game. I loved the first last of us, and i don’t why they destroy this part two.,My only question is why destroy it. Im really sad and angry.
3850) This game should have ended the same way God of War 3 did. They did a terrible job making you relate to Abby. If I was able to kill her at the end the same way you get to kill Zeus, and Ellie didn't get her fingers bit off I would give the game a least an 8/10 but they ruined it. Naughty dog used to be one of my favorite video game developers but they just lost a fan. They ruined one of my favorite games. It's a revenge story without revenge I don't care if they wanted to get their revenge is bad story across, it's just a bad dissatisfying story that literally made me depressed after. It's a damn game for crying out loud! I don't want to leave a damn game feeling empty! I'm going to pretend this trash does not exist and Joel and Ellie live in Tommy's town together without any disturbance. F*** you Naughty Dog and Neil.
3851) Pear told me that after he played this game grapefruit tried to have gay anal sex with him just like the main characters in this game. Grapefruit is now in prison and pear is receiving intensive therapy because of the trauma it caused him.
3852) There is a good game deep down at it's core, but it's covered by so much **** you tend to miss it. The gameplay is pretty amazing for this generation. The stealth is pretty intense. Boss fights remind me of resident evil. exploration isn't that bad Although I didn't enjoy the restrictions that put you out of immersion like her 1 meter jump, and the blocked doors that restrict you from going back outside to explore, and who thought forcing the player to play with a dog is a good idea? the game has you killing dogs half the time, no one who likes dogs that much would play the game. The graphics probably aren't best in class, but they're pretty good. The story on the other hand, is a major problem. Every time I get engaged in the story, they start shoving their gay agenda down my throat, and for no apparent reason except pushing the director's ideals in our face. Overall, a decent game. Overall, a step up from the bland gameplay of the first game which relied too much on story, but not enough for the name of naughty dog. Naughty dog used to be synonym with absolute quality under Amy Hennig, but they've fallen so far under Neil Druckmann's vision.
3853) where to begin .... i'ts a f*cking garbage with this game so joel is the main character and you kill him what the hell ???
3854) They ruined the game!! I've waited all this time for nothing. Might throw my PS4 in the garbage as well.
3855) Stupid story.... Totally wasted time and money, if you want to play this game, please preview it on the YouTube first.
3856) I can't believe that after 7 years this is what they made. This game is a massive disappointment. The plot sucks, and the leaks were unfortunately true. Outside of a few flashbacks, there's nothing enjoyable. Save your money.
3857) I think this could be a good movie but not a good game. I can’t feel anything good after playing this game
3858) Although I am in staunch disagreement with Neil Druckmann's ideology, I honestly wanted to give this game the benefit of the doubt and not buy into all the hate. Unfortunately this game is so insultingly and irredeemably horrendous that I can't find 1 good thing to say. As a fan of more cinematic experiences like Death Stranding, which is one of my all time favorites, I wanted to enjoy this but for anyone who is considering purchasing this, just play Death Stranding instead and if you already have, just play it again you'll be much better off.
3859) The overall gameplay is SO GOOD the mechanics the feel of the game and the puzzels are very very well made but the story is so trash you are forced to play as abby a person more than 60% of the entire game and dont even get to kill her the VERY PERSON  who did you wrong and all she got was basically a slap
3860) Story left me majorly disappointed. Especially after completely undoing what they did in the first game.
3861) This is the worst game in the history of games, maybe ever. These poor reviews are not the vocal minority. This is the opinion of the vast majority.
3862) Worst story!!! I waited 7 years to play this. Waste my time!!,How dare you for this garbage!?,Anyway, i dont play any product of Naughty dog again.
3863) So terrible, I feel that I waste time to do everything in the game. Because I kill everybody for revenge ,but I can't believe that I let the foe go finally.
3864) I honestly came to write my review, but i can't add up anything to everyone just said.. And this review is not because of joel scene, but it is an overall to the experience, thats a permanent wound.
3865) Trash, terrible story, terrible characters and pacing. Destroyed the original characters. Worst ending ever. Save your money and don't buy.
3866) This game is trash, it's all about shoving up their agendas up our throats, fk your propaganda Sony
3867) an absolute disaster of a story, characters make stupid mistakes that are out of character, the story is pointless and violent for no reason. this is the worst story i had ever played in any video games ever. i stayed away from all the spoilers and now i wish i had read them and i would have not bought the game.,,I WANT A REFUND
3868) Politically motivated agenda pushing leftist nonsense. The story is an atrocity and this game shouldn’t have ever been made.
3869) Why listen to feminists and journalists and make a politicized game?  Yes, feminists will give good grades and the press will approve, but THEY WILL NOT PLAY THESE GAMES, UNLESS THE ORDINARY PLAYERS, WHICH CUT DISKS WITH THE GAME ON STREAMS.  Thank you very much Anita Sargsyan and Nil  Druckman for depriving millions of players of a good story.
3870) Offff story is awful. Very very awful. Joel is dead :( ........ ....... ....
3871) Poorly written, save your money and buy another game because this game is garbage
3872) Whatahell they did with such an acclaimed and prestigious franchise ?! I am extremely disappointed with Naughty Dog, I waited so long and unfortunately they delivered a weak script full of political booklets. Unfortunately this is not TLO i knew.
3873) First two hours in game : Joël, the gruff character who opened up to a teenager he slowly considered to be his daughter, forming an incredible bond of love and care, dies. In the most stupid way possible. He used to be careful about everything to survive, no matter how immoral it could be, but somehow he gives his identity to his murderer after slaughtering humanity's last hope of a vaccine. Simply idiotic and inconsistent.,,So the story is resumed to a vengeance trope (because who would want to witness an interesting, gut-wrenching and beautiful story in a TLOU game?) against an uninteresting villain we are supposed to relate through brutal scenes. But that's it. There is nothing more being developed. At no point the director's promises are respected : no questioning redemption nor forgiveness, you just drag some characters to the next cutscene where someone gets butchered. No control or decision on actions, the player means nothing. So how are we supposed to think about redemption or forgiveness if none of our actions actually matter ?,,The best decision to take is actually not to buy the game. Because, unfortunately, fake positive reviews from companies glorify this joke and will still convince some people to give it money.
3874) I must say, I went through 40% of this game and it is disgusting, i dont want to play it anymore. Yeah i heard about it's weak plot, and forcing of lgbt subjects, marasmic ending (i have already seen it on youtube) weak gameplay that is boring and didn't changed, but didn't believe. Now i have seen it itself.  if my opinion has given you nothing means, people wrote 14 thousand negative reviews, I think it is an occasion to think. Do not take this game, do not sponsor Drakman’s obscurantism, I will never forgive what this scum did with this game. This game died.
3875) This game takes everything you love from the original and craps all over it, predictably scores are being deleted because people have no sense of honor or spine anymore, this isn’t about a political message, this is about bad storytelling, the story is so awful, with the same bland gameplay of the original, let’s not pretend tlou 1 had great gameplay, it had an amazing story though and that’s what carried it, tlou2 makes that story retroactively worse by giving it one of the worst conclusions possible in a piss poor attempt at a revenge story
3876) Dont Like this game, overvalued nonsense, with a scandal, dont recommended this game.
3877) I am now witnessing the suicide of a franchise.,Those who waited seven years became morons.,They insulted my memory.
3878) They ruined my favourite saga.,Story is BAD, too much politically correct and plus they don't listen to fans.,Naughty Dog isn't anymore my favourite software house.,I waited 5 years.,We all waited 5 years.,For this.,Thank you Naughty Dog.
3879) Absolute **** They took a masterpiece-level storyline from the first game and just straight up had diahrrea on it. Fire the writer or I'm never buying another game made by naughtydog.
3880) don’t try to take it this game is not worth your attention, it puzzles 1 part
3881) Horrible game with pointless & vulgar ultra-violence.  Further, Naught Dog & Sony were horribly abusive to negative critics by wrongly using the DMCA to try and silence critics and even destroy channels & livelihoods of people speaking negatively of the game.  This is unacceptable.  I will never purchase another Naught Dog product ever and I will not be purchasing any Sony products for a very long time.  Cancelled a $5,000 purchase of a Sony mirror-less camera + lenses due to this behavior.
3882) Damn... make an Account extra for the revenge of Joel. Damn, what did you do with TLOU. I hatte you for this ****
3883) this is the last jedi of gaming, terrible story and abby sucks, terrible intro and the ending is insulting
3884) Ugly woman with biceps and talking about chauvinism in the first 20 minutes of the game - this is what we have been waiting for 7 years. Fire Drukmann.
3885) The game, its story and most importantly its characters feel absolutely inorganic, fabricated to represent a forced diversity, while ignoring and neglecting its own plot and setting. The cure plot line, the big objective in this setting, is simply abandoned like a puppy in the middle of the road, the revenge plot gets old fast, playing as the antagonist is one of the worst decisions of the whole game (said antagonist's character is terrible), the way they killed off Joel is laughable, the over-the-top torturing of the main character is simply painful to watch and the ending is pure **** because it feels like everything you've strived for and accomplished in TLOU 1 and 2 was for nothing. Absolutely ****ty sequel.
3886) If any of the positive reviewers have ever played the first game with any shred of attention or passion for it then i really don't understand where they are comming from calling it great and inronically calling the story a supposed "masterpiece" ... Whereas the first game is unforgettable due to the tone it set, combining bitter reality with a theme of hope, and well established characters that we all grew to know and love, the second game almost spits on all that was built up, and presents us a world that doesn't correspond with the theme astablished, and characters who are anything but a continuation of what they were and are. Joel was going to be killed eventually yes due to what he did at the end of the first game, but the way they did it in the second is just purely **** writing. When it happens, nobody knows who the **** Abby is, and after that we are expected to play as her to only then after 10 hours understand who she was and why (taking the fact that she is a super bland character with no real draw or motives out of the picture for a second). A proper execution would have been for us to first understand who she is, and where she is comming from and then have it lead up to the climax of confronting Joel. Combine that with the fact that Joel is established in the first game as a very mistrusting person, always seeing through traps, people's intentions and even not trustinnlg Ellie with a switchblade (out of fear she might hurt herself that is). Having him walk into a base with strangers, giving up their names with their guard fully down is the last thing he would ever do. The writer took him out of character for an opportunity to kill him off quick for shock value, and to even be able to insert his cgi self spitting on his corpse, this whole seen and that move can therefore be seen as a spit in the face of the fans by Druckman himself.,Its also just plainly bad writing to make it seem like Joel saving her life didn't matter **** to her ... if the writers had actually bothered to put some depth into it they could have made it into a longer played out internal conflict that would have made for an actual good story.,Now the story is just about 24 hours of constant revenge while simultaneously having a political agenda shoved down your throat. It doesn't belong in the world that was so cleverly thought out and brought to life in the first game. The zombies are so absent from the story now that they could just as well have been removed, so now the suspense they created in the first game is reduced to them feeling like some annoying npc part of a puzzle to get to the next cutscene,Its just a whole game long where the player has to carry out one person's revenge fantasy after the other ... there is no depth to it, just a rinse and repeat viewed from different perspective played by characters that feel like husks compared to the complexity they had in the first game... Also there is no exiting goal anymore ... no outcome to work towards, just revenge upon revenge upon revenge plot,Also the tone is nothing like what we got in the first game. The first game was already set in dark bitter reality so i don't buy the whole "but its more like reality now" argument, but the thing that kept you playing and made the game so good was the underlying tone of hope that carried the characters through, gave the story its gripping aspect and made everything feel like it mattered. At the end of the second game there is nothing you have really accomplished. No goal was reached that meant anything, we are left with some dead people, the villain walking away and being better off than the protagonist and no sense of satisfaction whatsoever. Its just 24 hours of "i kill u cuz i mad that u killed this person",So no, the story was just a prime case of lazy, bad writing anf showed no respect for artistical integrity. Joels death was done poorly and in total disregard for who we got to know in the first game, and so was the rest of the story. Badly written, shallow, it really added nothing of value to the timeline and on top of that tried to be way to political for the environment it takes place in. At the end of this game, there is no sense of accomplishment or satisfaction, we are left with an empty feeling, wishing we'd have never walked into this game and had just let the story end where the first game did. hence the story in all its aspects really just is a bunch of horse****, and a slap in the face for fans of the first game.
3887) This piece of **** like only crazy feminists or stupid lefty SJW cuckolds. **** this tolerance, LGBT and feminism. Man is power, white lives matter, f*ck gays.
3888) Please don't buy this game, it is an atrocity to the game industry and no one deserves such pain for playing this thing that I consider trash.
3889) **** the last of as 2 it's Add poison in honey, I liked the first part, but I hated the second part
3890) d0gsh!t shill reviewers getting paid to give this SJW game a high score. Do yourself a favor and don't buy this d0gsh!t
3891) Thanks for Anita Sarkisian for the ruined game. Without the story the game means nothing.
3892) Just sad to see this game to fall on its face so hard.... I guess 2020 living up to its name.
3893) One of the worst games i've ever played. **** story & terrible political agenda. The ending is also extremely bad and this game is filled with a **** ton of plotholes. 0/10 can't recommend this to anyone, not even for money
3894) Nothing new has been added for tge gameplay aspect. The visuals are amazing but the story sucks compared to the first game and dlc.
3895) Extremely saddened and disappointed with the story lines and character development in this second part of the original game. The ending literally makes no sense, not only she didn’t get any justice for Joel, she lost 2 fingers. Good job, Naughty Dog! Here’s a suggestion to save this game from flopping. Make part 3 with Ellie woken up, and all the stuffs that happened during part 2 was just a dream. I have lost interest in this game, now please don’t **** up the upcoming show adaptation of it.
3896) Lot of bug, and the story become sad and confusing. To sad what they did, it lost the replay wish, it one time play to finish and sell it, they destroyed the game story!
3897) After 15 hours of the game I asked my self why did I waste my time to this horrible writing it feels like came out from a bad fan fiction fantasies in fact I read some fan made can do better than this ...cheap writing cheap new characters repetitive environment it’s not survival anymore and they said ‘’it’s new and unexpected story’’ ?!!!! The H**L with that !? a cycle of revenge !!!! Is this unexpected!!?? It’s unexpected because it doesn’t even came from the same brain that writes CATS movie if the story of part ii is plot of new tv series it will canceled after 3 episodes or even if it was for new movie no one will pay a ticket for it this cycle of revenge s**t will do no good Neil definitely destroy the game I was wondering if he is the real writer for part I  i don’t think so cause the ending of part I open a new story huge story a lot of questions it seems like the writer knows what directions will part ii takes something big behind the outbreak some plot twist . but to this game something nasty happened  destroy everything and please stop just stop it’s so pathetic the people who said GOTY or 10/10 ...etc this is pathetic especially when I saw big devs and directors at PlayStation praise this game just stop deep down you know this game is s**t and Neil ****** it up
3898) 7 years waisted with one swing of a golf club.  Neil Druckman ruined this franchise.
3899) Only buy this game if you want solid gameplay and ambientation, don't buy it for the story because it total garbage. I'm returning this game tomorrow. The platinum is easy but it's a pain having to play as abby for 25 hours total 1,3 playthroughs).
3900) Gameplay wise, it’s a good game and the graphics is enthralling but the first game was able to achieve so much more with less and what made the first one special was its unique story telling of a zombie post apocalyptic world. TLOU2 Characters are not worth investing in. It tries so hard to be political that it felt like it was shoving it down your throat by force. Story was just not well thought of and kinda generic like it was just taken from an episode of "walking dead" and other games were able to deliver revenge plots similar to TLOU2  But still managed to make the experience satisfying as where as in TLOUS2 it just makes you question yourself “why did I finish it till the end?”. A real let down.
3901) This game is based on the story and the story should be above the other elements but It's really bad to a person who played first game. I'm very disappointed
3902) Game went woke and ruined the legacy of the first. Garbage.worst sequel I’ve ever played.
3903) This game user  reviews vs critics reviews shows how much corrupt the journalism business is and this medium isn't away from that.
3904) disgusting plot. Characters are not disclosed. I could not force myself to play after 2 hours of passage.
3905) Ruined an otherwise iconic story.  Gameplay is okay, but does not makeup for the GoT Season level of irrational character choices.
3906) Remember this, Sony censored Anime cleavage in a game yet allowed a full on "gay" scene where a man is full on shagging a transsexual from behind, and slashing of throats and other violent scenes.,,The gameplay is old and stale, the story telling is all over the place. This is what happens when you have writers based on color and pink hair instead of talent.,,Neil Druckman hates the female figure but loves butch men pretending to be female, it also appears he likes making and seeing stories on young teenage lesbians.,,The "game" is very very strange, a look into the mind of these freaks for sure.
3907) If you need sjw content - generate it from scratch.  Please don't touch good  franchises for normal people.
3908) Naughty Dog 100% ruined everything that actual players and fans of the first game loved. It was about the bond between ellie and Joel. It was about the awesome cast of people they meet along the way like Tess,  Henry and Sam etc. It was about the masterfully wrote storyline that tied everything in together and made everyone really pull for Joel and Ellie to make it through ok.,,So what does ND do? they fire their amazing story writer (who is a female actual feminist), deceive the masses by lying about Ellie being the main playable character (however it is actually abby in this game). They then proceed to kill off joel in a horrible and stupid way in the first few hours of the game. and then have ellie lose basically everything and gain nothing for 0 reason. She gets her fingers bit off by Abby so she can't play t he guitar anymore so that commercial was also a lie. Avoid this game at all cost.
3909) DO NOT I REPEAT DO NOT BUY THE GAME WE WONT SUPORT THIS **** I GOT THE GAME FROM MY FRIEND BIGGEST DISSAPOINTMENT Ever just not worth your time do not buy!
3910) Let me start off by saying I love the last of us part 1. It's my favorite game of all time. I wasn't a big fan of the DLC because I feel like an agenda was being forced and pushed in my face. Going into this game I was trying to have an open mind. I didn't mind ellie being gay so much. It bothered me in the DLC because she was like your daughter and I never once questioned her sexuality or cared to know. I didn't really have a problem with ellie being gay in this game seeing as she is much older and I don't feel like naughty dog really pushed it too hard. i feel like it flowed naturally and it wasn't just shoved down my throat. I think when they introduced the trans kid things were a little too much there. It was definitely forced and an obvious agenda was at play. I was kinda confused when I first saw abby but after learning about her background I understood her character. The graphics in this game were incredible. I also loved the gameplay. The main things I absolutely hated about this game was the ending. I think if i played this and didn't look at the leaks I would have hated it more when Joel died. I guess I kinda just accepted it before the game came out so i lived with it seeing as I preordered the game. Once the game panned over to Abby after the Theatre encounter I couldn't wait to hurry through and see what happens next. Let me tell u it feels like this game NEVER ends and in the worst way possible, but you keep playing to find out. Only to be F'ed over so hard with the ending its so unreal. The ending was so bad it has potentially made me not even want to buy a ps5 next gen and that says ALOT. I mostly buy playstation to experience games from naughty dog like uncharted last of us and FF7 remake is big on my upcoming games, but after seeing how sony and naughtydog treated this whole situation I think I might go rock out on some Halo next year. I would like to at least give this game a 5 for graphics because those developers deserve a well 10/10 for that, but this director has F'ed this game up so bad I have to rate a 0 and try to give it the lowest overall score as possible so maybe decisions can be made to better the brand.
3911) I had an interesting review planned, but I'm just going to tell you that I'm gay and pregnant because those are the only details that matter in this game.
3912) Bro, i **** bought the game because i loved the characters and the first game, when the Joel scene happened i literally **** cried a little bit and stopped playing, then uninstalled the damn thing. There goes my **** birthday gift i guess.
3913) Too bad they force you to play as a **** character that killed of fan favorite with a bad writing and that ending? Bruh
3914) story    - infinity / 10  graphics 9/10 but  Absolute disrespect towards the 1st game  they gave me a horrible intro and **** ending,I just want to forget about this game
3915) The story was a huge middle finger to The Last Of Us Fans. The whole game felt like a huge mess there was no story or character development TO BE HONEST. Story: -10/10 Gameplay: 5/10,Graphics 8/10,Overall: Still give it a Zero because it was honestly the **** plot ive seen in a while
3916) What a garbge game and poor story!,Thats soo stupid game and ****,Give my money back!
3917) Trash Game. Graphics are great. But that is it.,It was impossible to have fun.,It was really boring.,Worst story telling.,Worst character concept.
3918) LGBT-bad. Why we must play this lgbt-person? Maybe I would play normal girl. If you don't make much LGBT and feminism in this game-it will be 10/10
3919) Sony is paying well to the reviewers xD. Game has nothing much to offer and add top of the other game. Ending was horiblle didnt like it.
3920) absolute waste of time and money.,My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined.,Can't believe the leaks where actually true. A clear misunderstanding about what makes good story telling.
3921) Naughty Dog disrespected it's fanbase by forcefully making us play with Joel's killer and not even letting us kill her in the game.,This game is a disgrace.It can never match the first Last of us.
3922) Well if you want to play Lara Croft's Tomb Raider that game suits you but for me i want to play with Joel and Ellie as i did the first game. I did not buy or wait this game to play half of the game some random girl.
3923) Thanks Neil druckmann for an excellent lgbtq+ propaganda. This **** is not worthy 60$
3924) A masterpiece for those who are in favor of inclusion but obviously this second part has nothing more than that,A waste of money but my dog have a new toy ty :)
3925) I cannot believe what they did to this game...i still can't believe it. We need a new TLU2 because this one was a waste of the 23 hours that I put in to it. The story is just ABISMAL!!!
3926) I have been waiting for this game for about 3 years, but in the end I got a kind of game that is full of propaganda of LGBT and feminism.
3927) Gameplay and graphics are very good, however, the story is bad due to lack of sufficient threads supporting social justice. There are no characters who would at least express their apologies to the oppressed black minority with their body posture. No destruction of monuments that would support the fight against racism. Despite such great attention to detail and the many objects present in the game, it is surprising that there is no thread in the plot that would support the object-oriented minority. Unfortunately, the lack of these issues obscures all the good sides of this game. 0/10
3928) It supose to be a video game I was waiting for not a propaganda. I am so disappointed. What the heck guys?
3929) The story is your generic 'revenge is bad' type. The character development is all over the place. Graphics and gameplay are the good things about this game. And for a story-driven game, this is very disappointing.
3930) Epic fail.,Just wasted my time.,Critics are awful. Plz don’t waste your money for this ****
3931) Rated R for retards repeat, don't buy this game. Hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh
3932) game of the world worst story of the world worst,political correctness of the world worst
3933) Waste of time and money. The hype for this game ruined my experience with gaming as a whole and I have no idea why people think this game is good.,Also bakugo dies in the magna
3934) A Craftable **** Psycho Drugmann. I'm worried about the future Naughty dog's games. I don't wanna hate them except for Drugmann..
3935) Jesus christ this is the most disappointing 25 hours spent on anything on my life so far; this story is su badly constructed that the game deserves a cero, because the main objective with the Last of Us is its story and in the end it doesn't deliver properly on that field, don't waste $60 bucks on this **** and instead bbuy Horizon, Persona 5 Royal or FFVII Remake
3936) Why do we have to watch abby getting smashed? This game story is a joke compare to the original
3937) **** you Neil!! The joel's dead is stupid,  he would be,  the perfect star in This game.
3938) The game is so bad do not waste your money.  They had no idea what to do with the story and had to pay off the entire media to get some of their money back that they had lost during the production of the game.  Naughty dog has ruined their image and will most likely no longer be a game studio after this game.  Watch a let's play or a stream instead of buying the game and save yourself some money.
3939) Man. I am damn sad about how much of a sham this "game" is. Can't quite believe the atrocious writing, the insanely stupid directions it takes...and the outright misleading that has happened overall.,I'm just stunned. Joel isn't a nonchalant idiot. But they made him out to be precisely that in this insipid sequel. Naughty Dog, you're a group of blind/disrespectful people. And that so-called ending? WILDLY unsatisfying! Sure, the graphics are exquisite. But who gives a **** when you get this?
3940) Killed Joel for no reason. Abby is the ugliest thing I've ever seen in a game and I can't even kill it at the end? Druckmann die in a fire this game is absolute trash.
3941) Save a friend 60$ —> A beloved female protagonist who turns out to be a lesbian in a relationship with a bisexual Jewish woman. Who also happens to be pregnant by an Asian guy. They are fighting against “Christian fanatics” who are hunting gay people in an apocalyptic world.. Then our beloved WHITE MALE protagonist is beaten to death with a golf club by a transgender Who somehow managed to get a sex change operation in apocalyptic world.. who also happens to be our new protagonist..
3942) Naughty Dog your game is absolutely f****** trash you need to go find another job and I want my money back ASAP .you destroyed a game for your woke agendaI hope you guys realize you just hurt your bottom line and I can't wait to see you all bankrupt and never make another game again thank you from all gamers
3943) First off, critics are useless. Nobody should ever listen to them ever again, they've proven to me that they are not to be trusted. on to the review:,Graphics... That's the only good thing about this. Everything else is either mediocre or down right awful. The game play did not evolve one bit since 2013. It's still a walking simulator that's more a movie than a game, which would be enjoyable if it had a good story but God damn is it bad. The story simply broke my heart and not in the good way. It's like a spit in the face of the entire fan base. It's like the worst fan fiction you could possibly find. Seriously? This is what you came up after 7 years? Did Twitter write this game? It's full of plot holes and the characters you fell in love with in the first game are completely ruined and you are forced to play with the character that ruined them. I don't mind the woke stuff but when so much of it is obviously forced down your throat it feels like the entire game was built around it so if people don't like it you can pull the victim card and say that they are ists and phobes and whatever. And the director to preach so much about sexualising women in games is bad only than to put that Abby scene in the game? I can't unsee that. WTF were you thinking? I'd rather watch 2 girls one cup on repeat while eating. Let me tell you a little secret western game devs. People are playing games for entertainment and they'd rather see pretty things while doing it than ugl.. excuse me FUGLY ones! This is never going to change. How is sexualising men was never an issue? People don't like to be preached to and to be told what to think. In a video game setting, that choice should be always ours.,Overall, I don't recommend this, especially if you were a fan of the previous one. maybe buy it when it's on a massive sale.
3944) Ruined franchise by an almost unbelievable bad story. So much stuff to discuss in a post apocalyptic world and Naughty Dog chooses to focus on an empty and stupid vengeance cicle, sexuality, gender, abortion and weed. For the sake of this agenda, it even killed a very loved character in a  very hateful way. After finishing the game, I wish I haven't played it to preserve just TLOU1 in my memory.
3945) To quote the great Reggie Fils Aime, "If it's not fun, why bother?" The game is a slog, the writing is half baked, there's a self insert character of the writer that feels very masturbatory.  It's just not good.
3946) Stupid **** of a stupid **** **** Game for a juvenile dumbs.,It's feels like it makes me hungry then feeding me by a cup of ****
3947) This game is just awful. This is LGBT and feminist propaganda, not a story about revenge for a loved one.
3948) WTF IS GOING ON WITH THIS GAME, the storyline is absolutely garbage, although the chi and music is good, but that trash plot screw up this classic game IP.
3949) 10 hours of bad quality gameplay, the history isn’t as good than the first part.
3950) Wasted potential for what could have been an amazing sequel to an amazing game
3951) Terrible characters. It feels like a story about ethics instead of survival. To be honest, the gameplay is repetitive, it follows the standard naughty dog format of fight zombies, fight mean men, figure out puzzles and explore a tiny bit. Then do it all over and over again,The character skill tree is not rewarding, at all,the graphics are pretty good but to be honest I would t waste my money on this game. Glad I didn't, played it at a friend's house for 2 hours and I implore most of you to not waste your own money on it. Wait for a good game.
3952) It's like 300 was written by 5 year old girls. Horrible. Worst in modern history. Stay away. Your were warned. Never trust the shills.
3953) A certain Swiss man is hating history and he is only in the middle and I already finished it and it is rubbish and everything to please a minority of people
3954) The game is utter garbage...they **** this up entirely. Also...how much did they pay you critics to give them that unearned rating? Find a new job because knowing games ain't for you.
3955) I'm sick of this SJW degeneracy crap! TLOU was once a timeless classic, now obliterated by smut peddling. The developers should be ashamed of themselves. Throw this excuse of a game into the trash pile of gaming history where it belongs.
3956) A good game with a really bad end, and stupid stuff.,P. D. Of course, an idiot who control everything
3957) A very bad story, nothing compared to the first game. Politics are involved. Games are supposed to be fun, not to make you regret that you played it.
3958) Worst story ever. Naughty dog should be ashamed of themselves,"the last of us " was a Masterpiece.....part 2 pure trash , I don't what the story doing ...... DO NOT BUY
3959) They completely and utterly **** all over the first games story. Basically  all hardships are pointless.
3960) Mandatory homosexual scenes,,Anti-semitic portrayal of Jews with ugly big noses.,Too bad the riots in USA started too late in game development, they would have surely shoehorned some african american political messages there too.
3961) the worst thing that happened to this world. I hope people come to terms with this misunderstanding.
3962) Wirst Game ever. No transhomophobia, it is just bad. So mad about spending my money on this.
3963) Game is just bad. Graphics are really good but over all just a waste of time and money.
3964) Horrible, this is a total waste of time. No actual good storytelling and a lot of nonsensical ideas around. So much in fact that it might show some mental deficiencies on the authors. This is why it is important to write down things that make sense and are coherent, the consequences if not might lead to be alike the authors of this blasphemy.
3965) Game need a remake. I’m giving 1 point to slytherin. Story is so bad. Gama need a remake in Ps5. We don’t wanna see Abby’s story. We wanna see Ellie and Joel’s story and in the end we wanna see happy ending. Anyway, listen close now spoiler ls coming now,Joel dead,Ellie let go Joel’s killer,We play with Joel’s killer in second part of the game. Ellie lost her love and baby,Ellie lost her two fingers and can’t play guitar anymore,Game trying to show us Joel’s killer is a good person but she ain’t cuz she destroyed all her people for someone else. So game is terrible
3966) Is this the same company with the uncharted series? bad stories, bad final and bad game.
3967) 7 years for this...I don't know what to say.,Just please end this here, we don't need a third one
3968) game gets boring af to the end. it's like watching 5 quentin tarantino movies at once. wth naughtydog
3969) Absolute disrespect towards the 1st game. The story and the characters are so horribly written that it doesn't even make me angry anymore, just sad. There is nothing new in the gameplay we haven't seen already in other games. The only thing that's truly great about this game are the graphics. But that's it. The quality of the story rivals the story of Star Wars VIII: The last jedi. And i didn't even mention the forced SJW/gender propaganda (however, these are not the core problems of the game).,Verdict: 4/10 (just because the graphics are amazing).,- If you're looking for a great story, AVOID this game.,- If you're a fan of the story and characters of the 1st tlou, AVOID this game.,- If you don't like it when someone spits in your (or Joel's) face, AVOID this game.,- If you don't care about the franchise and the future of gaming at all and all you seek are the
3970) Look how they massacred my boy :(,If naughty dog did their job well, this game could be one of the best game in history,,This is heartbreaking.
3971) f***k you naughty dpg for this piece of sheet.... i'm not gonna by it or any products you'll gonna make in the future
3972) Against Human nature, may be positively with Dog's manners..!! But not perfect  for our civilization , we're not synoptic society
3973) Sad sad sad. First half of the game is good and the gameplay is intense. But... the story is trash. Don’t buy
3974) Do you want to get bored and pay money to get fooled by sony and nd? Then buy this game. MASTERPIECE
3975) A game like this reaches greatness because of how good the story is not how the gameplay is and the story for this continuation is beyond terrible. After watching my friend play through this I will never buy any future products by naughty dog.
3976) This is the worst game I have ever played. This is what happens when you let leftist propaganda ruin a beloved franchise. 0/10
3977) Good graphics but everything else is trash. What a trash sucking story man holy ****
3978) Just the absolute worst, slap in the face to any fans of the original. There’s a lot of press about review bombing but in truth it is in fact the voice of the fanbase that naughty dog have just aggrieved by not doing the characters or story justice. Instead we have an empty and satisfying conclusion to one of the most anticipated games on PS4. Truly disappointing.
3979) Just destroyed the continuation of my favorite game. How could you do that? This is just awful!!!! The first part will always remain in my heart and will be the best game I have played. I'm upset. Don't buy this sh@t, guys!!!
3980) This game is made by that one kid, that thinks killing off the main characters will make the story great.,I am impressed by the graphics of this game ( I have played it) I love the environments, I never felt so immersed in a game, while disconnected. I will give you a list of the "goods" and the "bads",,Good :,,Amazing graphic's,Little details,acceptable character development (debatable),,Bads :,,Killing An Important character "too soon",Dumb story decisions,almost bad AI,Terrible ending,,We need to go into detail now:,first, The AI in not that great, and the story decisions are not neither.,Let me explain, you have Joel brutally murdered by Abby, At the first 2-3 hours of the game.,The other 20 hours is to get revenge, fine, but the ending is frustrating. you did all of that just for Ellie to realize "Oh, Killing people will get me nowhere"... While Joel would do anything for her, I was disappointed, I avoided all the leaks, played the game to be met by a bd narrative.,,Overall, WE don't care about the graphics, we care about our beloved characters and their journey.,If the last of us sequel was just a book with great writing, I would buy it.,But They have put a lot of effort into this environment and the world around us.,4/10..
3981) Worst golf game in recent years, why they decided to add Tiger Woods ex-wife into the game baffles me........
3982) A complete **** show. No character development and the the developers decided to include follow a complete different theme from the first game where it was more about love. This game is more about hate .
3983) visuals good, gameplay ok. but the story just makes everything so sad and pointless, even kinda destroys the 1st game since you know this is how everything ends up. just such horrible writing and boring uninteresting charcters compared to the first game. just so sad.
3984) I used to think that The last of us 2 is a tragedy now i realize it's a comedy
3985) horriblehorriblehorriblehorriblehorriblehorriblehorriblehorriblehorriblehorrible
3986) This review contains spoilers. So I got the game early and played it. I read or saw no spoilers before the release. I never do.,,So here is what I think:,,Pros:,- gameplay,- graphics,- atmosphere,- sound,- music,,All those parts are undeniable very good. Its top notch. Sure the controls sometimes feel weird but they do in most of the games. It would be unfair to say this game isnt up to date in terms of all those points I mentioned.,,Cons:,- story,- character design,- character development,- plot holes,,So, even with all the pros this game is really really bad. It makes NO sense that Ellie act how she acts in certain parts of the game but that isnt even the biggest thing about why its bad.,The reason is: character development.,If you kill one of the most beloved characters early in the game (Joel) and want to bring in new main playable characters like Abby, you HAVE to bring WAY more backstory in order to make the player feel with her.,I mean she KILLED Joel!,How do you make the player like her? Bring more and more backstory before she does that. Let the players play 2-10h as Abby when she was a child or whatever. The backstory of her is basically told in 10minutes and then her dad is being killed. Thats it? And now I have to feel with her and understand why she killed Joel?,Hell no!,That is weak story telling. Really really weak.,,Then there are all the other new characters. Nobody is likeable. Like really. They all feel empty. They are only shells without any meaning.,,This game is just bad. Do yourself a favor and dont buy it. The reviews the journalists wrote are either bought by Sony or ND or are heavily politicly influenced. Sad thing is: because of that same journalists will most likely make this game GOTY. What a joke.,,Safe your money and buy something else.,,And last but not least: this is technically a very good game but the story/characters is/are SO bad it just doesnt matter how well the rest is done.,,You want a good revenge story? Watch "Oldboy" then you know how to make a good revenge story that shocks everybody to their core.,,This game right here? Its garbage.
3987) Just another example of virtue signaling and politics. The first one was an amazing game. Honestly the overabundance of cut scenes drew away from the actual game play. And for the actual game play the controls feel clunky.
3988) Poor and forced history, unfortunately disappointed everyone and the legacy of the first one.
3989) Honestly, after the first one I had high expectations and every can afford to be let down a little. This wasn’t just a let down, this was a straight up disappointment.
3990) Critic review is full of BS.,The story is so irrational and illogical that it never attempts to persuade users,This game spat on the faces of fans who had been waiting for years,Don't want the production company to talk about GOTY
3991) Alright so where to begin with this game, when it was first announced and the trailers started to circulate it looked solid overall and looked like it was going to be a great sequel to a beloved game. However, as more and more content for the game was shown it was very obvious that this wasn't going to go well. This game is an example of trying to appeal to everyone which isn't necessarily a bad thing but the way it's executed is done poorly, they make large changes to characters that don't make any sense. Joel went from being a well-rounded and cautious individual to essentially saying "yeah lets go into this lodge with these strangers" which was clearly done just so they could kill off the character. Then you have what they do to pretty much every female in the game, they make them buff and look nothing like a female and while I can understand that not every female is going to look like what is considered conventional, but it's jarring when you walk up to what looks like this buff macho dude and then they have the most feminine voice ever. Now it's on to the story, the first half of the game where you play Ellie I'd say is genuinely somewhat enjoyable and things are running fine. The game however takes a sharp turn when Joel meets a 9 iron to the face and the story just turns sloppy. The worst part about this game is the second half where you end up in the shoes of this character that the game tries desperately to get you to like, trying so hard to make you sympathize with the character but it just doesn't work because while some of the actions Joel and Ellie have made are bad, it doesn't take away the players love for the characters. So then it turns into this hatred towards your own character and you're just hoping that she ends up getting killed somehow. Then to top it all off you have the worst thing I think I have ever seen in a game, a self-insert sex scene between Owen (literally the likeness Neil Druckmann) and Abby, it is genuinely disgusting to see and is the cherry on top for one of the worst games of 2020. If you don't care at all about the story, go ahead and try this, you'll get some enjoyment out of it as the game play is ok, but if you're like me and plenty other TLOU fans don't even give this a try.
3992) To sit there and say this is the pinnacle of story telling is absurd. To dumb down a character just for the sake of having him lead into a trap.. Lying that the leaks were fake isn't a good way to keep business neither. I'll never buy a naughty dog game again. Your political sjw bull is annoying.
3993) what a **** show!! expected something better after 7 years of waiting. rip this franchise
3994) nice try to promote this game by bloggers  ,but this game is actually trash
3995) Nothing new. Horrible storyline. Double standards in censoring from Sony, showing "that" Scene but censoring Japanese games for much less. The game is disrespectful towards the fans of the original, and the media as well as naughty dog alienate gamers, the ones that are actually supposed to buy and play the game, and even blame the deservedly horrible ratings on "bots" and "virgins". Good job, I'll probably never buy a PS5 or naughty dog game again.
3996) zero for the story why did you put a cringe fest and kill one of the best character right in the beginning ... wow f*** this game..  gameplay is sick tho... but f*** this cringe l**** fest...
3997) It's a story based game but unfortunately its story is trasthat why it is very bad game
3998) How to explain this ****, the game has a lifespan of 2 hours. at the end of these two hours joel dies and the rest therefore no longer makes sense being that the charm of the game is in the link between Joel and Ellie.
3999) A story game with terrible story. Naughty Dog should be sorry for their graphics team.
4000) The game consists of gays and revenge, and this issue is upsetting to most players
4001) this is the most unnecessary squeal In the game history,,it destroy both ND and the original game
4002) Good graphics, nothing new in the gameplay and horrible horrible history. Don't buy it.
4003) Garbage story. Worst story I’ve ever seen. My grandma’s stories are much better than this crab
4004) terrible game. just LOU 1 but with a poop story. there is no environmental puzzles, the gameplay is changed almost not at all, and the fact that we waited so long for this game is heartbreaking
4005) Just horrible.  I liked the first game.  This one is just so disappointing.
4006) welp tiger woods favorite game for sure welp tiger woods favorite game for sure
4007) nothing to say the story is bad and not what i expect from the last of us very diffrent from the part 1
4008) My dissapointed is unmeasurable and my expectations are ruined.,Need to fill all 75 characters. I love cats.
4009) If this is the best game  by media,than I'm a giraffe... All who played 1st part was disappointed this one.
4010) Joel died? One of the best characters in the history of gaming died just like that? Disgracefully? Shame on whoever wrote this part.
4011) Complete utter trash, this is what happens when crazy, radicals take over making games.
4012) this game is a disappointment for all who really wanted the saga............
4013) What a shame, disappointed and angry Dont spend ur money at least wait til it cost $10
4014) I just want to say one thing, why?,Why did you ruin the video game for us, the story doesn't make sense, you wanted to be george rr martin but you couldn't be half, you couldn't do it well.
4015) Terrible game, have no idea what anyone who helped create this was doing, story is a flop and they kill off the best character in the first two hours
4016) What a waste of time ………………………………...........................................
4017) The game was good until you are forced to play with Abby for about 8 hours, then it gets so boring because Abby is so unlikeable like sll the characters surrounding her it's so annoying.,,I don't get the point of the game, So Ellie is ok killing all this people that even wasn't in the room where Joel was killed but she doesn't kill the one who hurt her the most by killing him I don't understand lol,And also If she wasn't sure about going to kill her the second time why did she leave her family to go after Abby? It doesn't makes sense at all.
4018) The first TLoU is one of the greatest games of all time. This sequel truly deserves 0/10 for what they did. Atrocious.
4019) I hate this game because they support something that is immoral, unnatural and does not extend to humanity.  Unfortunately, the first part was the best story you've ever played
4020) All creative integrity has been destroyed in the creation of this game. The story has been butchered for the sake of a singular individual. This does not feel like a continuation of the original game at all.
4021) Words cannot properly express how deeply disappointed I am with this game. I thoroughly enjoyed the last one, and I'd dare to say it was one of my top ten favourite games on the PlayStation 3. This one, however, failed miserably to even land close to what made the last game such a wonderful experience. The story telling here feels lazy, and the game play left much to be desired. The “horror” (if you can even call it that) that was always lingering over you in the last one is non-existent. At no point did I feel on edge, or frightened to move forward. I can't bring myself to write anymore. I'm not even mad, I'm just terribly disappointed.
4022) This game was a huge let down, I feel the foundations of the last game was totally destroyed by this mess of a story and game play. Should’ve left it at Part 1
4023) They kill off everyone's favorite character in the worst way possible, fine whatever, at least you'll get the satisfaction of killing the girl who did it- oh wait, you just let her go, for no reason whatsoever. Cool. Great. FANTASTIC. Utter garbage. This is a great example at how you DON'T do a sequel. Please God, let me wake up in an alternate timeline where they actually tried to make a good game.
4024) I thought it was very disappointing. It's a sad way to cap off one of the greatest generations of gaming.
4025) There was a correct way to write this story, using all the same character deaths and plot points. There was a correct way to make Abby more sympathetic of a character, by making the player play through more of the immediate aftermath of Joel's actions at the end of The Last of Us. If we had to play through 3-4 hours of a young Abby dealing with her father's death alone, the fall of the fireflies alone, her struggles with the Seraphites and joining the WLF alone all before the point where she killed Joel it would've added more tension to her first meeting with Joel, it would've given the player time to understand Abby's grief and rage. Instead it rushes all of its character development, wastes so much potential between Abby and Lev (the only character other than Yara that I actually liked and had sympathy for, at least among Abby's crew). Even Joel's burial is rushed, no broken Ellie and Tommy giving a eulogy. The only parts of this story which they actually took the time to flesh out were the Dina/Ellie romance, which I quite liked, and the Joel/Ellie flashbacks. I don't know how seven years can go by with this little character development going on, maybe there were too many ideas on the table that got scrapped, or maybe it is just plain laziness but this game's graphics and gameplay were ready for release; the story was premature. Too much shock value, Abby is too ruthless and feels too invulnerable in her play style for the player to actually see her as anything other than a brute who cheats with a comrade's boyfriend, almost knowingly kills a pregnant girl (thank god for Yara speaking some sense into her).,,The writers need to take a good hard look at themselves and the reaction to the story that is happening, yes some people are bigots and trashing it for bigoted reasons but I have read many reviews here and for every 1 bigoted review I see 9 disappointed fans. I now know I can't trust the reviews of critics or the trailers of Naughty Dog in their next release. I only wish now that I could have seen the version of TLoU 2 that Bruce Starley would've co-directed and Amy Hennig would've co-wrote. My heart goes out to all of the voice actors, artists, coders, and animators that have seen their hard work wasted on this weak shell of a story.,,Neil Druckmann needs to do some soul searching for what he's really trying to accomplish as a writer, there's pushing the limits of story telling and then there's relishing in butchery, butchering character development, butchering beloved characters, and butchering the fanbase.
4026) waiting for this The Last of Us Part II was a waste of time, I'm going to pretend that this game never existed
4027) You just destroyed the story.. I'm sorry but this is trash.. 0 because i felt heartbroken. Nothing else to say..
4028) Very bad story. Players' thoughts matters. When political correctness comes to evil, being used to make money. Are they really political correct? Diversity means we all matters, not only those matter.
4029) Must not play, disgusting in general, everything looks too forced, a waste of money an resources
4030) This game is so terrible. I can’t believe this is the game we waited for so long. An absolute trash game don’t waste your money or time on it. TBH just act like it never existed.
4031) good game play but,bad story its really unacceptable,this game only have one episode for me
4032) The best graphics on ps4 era, and gameplay and combat is great , the visuals and landscape and lightnings little details are also great, but a big BUT the story.... The story is like, I want to refuse that part 2 is the sequel to the last of us , I love the last of us so much that I wish that I've never played the game ,what Neil Druckmann did to the last of us is unforgivable and sooo unfortunate it would be a great game if the story was just simple and not try to be creative in a really weird and crazy way , but the fact is the last of us part 2 is out officially and unfortunately the story is taking the worst path that a last of us fan would've never imagined! It's tragic
4033) Forcing the player to play as a character they hate is never a good idea. This game doubled down on it by trying too hard to be different from the first game.
4034) I avoided myself from all the spoilers. All I knew was people were angry about the story. However, as I played the game I tried to think positively. Even at the early game where some 'big' event happened , I tried to have positive mind and progressed through the story. At the mid game where another huge event happened, I still, STILL, tried to think, 'okay let's progress further and then judge, maybe when I see the ending, it may change my scepticism'. HOWEVER, as I reach towards the late game it gets beyond tolerable and when I finally saw the ending, I was like, 'why did I commit 30+ hrs on this game'. The game mechanics, environment, face expression, etc are all fantastic and this is what pisses me off. Because  all of that is completely ruined by one terrible story writing.
4035) stupid story stupid story stupid story stupid story stupid story stupid story stupid story stupid story,Are you kidding me Metascore 95!
4036) please do a favor to yourself and don't buy this like I did, complete waste of money and time
4037) The first game feels like a movie wrapped up with flesh and blood in a poetic way. This sequel is just pure flesh and blood that makes me wanna throw up.
4038) The gameplays feels clunky, as if the designers did not play test before releasing this next installment. It’s a shame that the enemies were not further developed, because the gameplay often feels repetitive.
4039) Very retarded game, the story sucks in comparison to the original.'ftgfggggggggggggggggggggghggg
4040) The Story was terrible, no one I know likes it And cut the gay **** out, it’s disgusting.
4041) A complete waste of 60$. I've never cringed harder in my entire life playing a game.
4042) They tried to make a political statement in this game, at the cost of making something that even resembles enjoyment. Stupid choice, even stupider execution.
4043) How did the game rating be 10???,F the idea of LBGT into Gaming Industry,Wasted one of the best franchise and years of waiting of fans
4044) Total disappointment. I'm sick to death of these "cinematic" wannabe games that slow things to a snail's pace with the constant backstories and flashbacks and cutscenes. Meanwhile the gameplay is just another also-ran cover shooter that is mostly on rails. Don't believe the hype!
4045) Ruined story. Beloved characters systematically destroyed on several levels. Franchise hijacked by gender politics influencing jarring story and design decisions. Hollow shell of the game that came before.,If you don’t like the new direction your accused of being a ism or a phobe.  Don’t waste your money.,At least FF7 Remake didn’t try and pull the same level of bs. F**k you naughty dog.
4046) This game is an insult to all the people who built Naughty Dog up into a once-great studio, people like Amy Hennig. Neil Druckmann thinks he's some kind of SJW champion (even as he makes a game where women get horrifically beaten in like every other scene), but he's done more to ruin the careers of talented women in gaming than anyone else I know. Don't reward this misogynist by buying his hacky game.
4047) The characters in the story accomplish nothing except for more death and Abby getting revenge on Joel
4048) Whoever thought killing Joel off like a freaking side character was a smart move should be fired. We saw this exact plot in The Walking Dead. It is stupid. It is old. Nothing novel or intriguing about it. And the game barely started, how are we supposed to feel hyped to play the rest of the game now... I want my money back.
4049) this is a complete disgrace to the last of us 1....i cant believe what they have done to our beloved game. thats horrible
4050) Stop buying this game folks, especially for those who have played the first TLOU, because Neil Druckmann is gonna tear your heart apart and stamp on it. Also, TLOU2 just gave us a perfect example of how political correctness destroyed a perfect series.
4051) Sony i not bay your games.this is not game for fans last of us.this is full ****
4052) I waited 84 years. It’s been 84 years like the meme from titanic goes. TO BE DESTROYED MENTALLY BY THIS GAME AND ITS ENDING!!!!,ABSOLUTELY AWFUL STORY!!! How in gods name this went through and was given the A-okay is beyond me. My opinion DOES NOT stem from any transgender, gay, lesbian feelings I may have towards that community. I have plenty of gay friends. It’s the DAMN STORY! I am truly appalled.
4053) absolute garbage what in the world have i witnessed they straight up ruined my favorite saga man i'm heart broken
4054) barfed during the ending sex scene... didnt know I paid 60 bucks for a gay porno
4055) I cant understand this story.....,how could they  creat  this Rubbish,,Very disappointed
4056) This is nothing but a piece of crap don't waste your money. Spend money on ghost of Tsushima.
4057) The worst game ever.,I suggest firing your screenwriters.,I don't advise to buy it.
4058) The director of the game went out of his way to make this a bad game. He wanted to make a political statement, putting in ridiculous amounts of lgbtqwerty+ people (I'm okay with representation but they didn't do it right), rather than give the fans what they wanted. The graphics are great. All games in this age from a big producer are going to have great graphics. The gameplay is okay. Pretty similar to the original. The story was a dunpster-fire. The game being 60% cutscenes is fine but having those cutscenes show trash is not. Games are a firm of escapism to ignore the real world, they're not meant to force an opinion down your throat. I hope Naughty Dog can make good games again but this one wasn't.
4059) The story sucks I thought out of all the elements that Naughty Dog could have done wrong they screwed up the story.The gameplay's top notch tho but the characters here just don't get the same treatment as they did in tlou 1.
4060) Terrible. It's a depressing,  joyless hellscape of a game that desecrated its predecessor.
4061) Joel dies senselessy, an ending left scratching heads, badly written characters, LGBT propaganda. Critics love TLOU2. Fans hate what happened to the TLOU2 and it's story.,They done goofed up.
4062) BOOTY STORY JOEL GETS CLUBBED BY A TRANNY DO NOT BUY BARGAIN BIN GAME 0/10!
4063) so **** up game,i've waited 5 years and what i get was $100 worth of trash.
4064) Graphics are good and to be expected. Gameplay is OK.,Story sucks.,Characters suck. I’m only giving it a 0 because of how Sony and ND treated the YouTube community over opinions. Obviously someone messed up making this game. Complete 180 from the first one.
4065) Pure trash. TRASHHHHH Neil Suckmann, you should be ashamed of what you just did with the storytelling here.
4066) They bill Joel and those awful plot twists, not as good as the first game, also pretty boring as soon as you play
4067) I played the last of us 1, the story was really incredible and very deep, in this story 2 the story is horrible, they ended the game, the gameplay is the same, such a good character and died so uselessly, the guy highly prepared  died as a layman in the world.
4068) Thought this was a train wreck compared to the first.  I know the game just came out, but it crashes a lot too.
4069) In short, despite its phenomenal gameplay and graphics, as a story-driven game, it is a big failure. It failed to build up connection between the player and the new characters. It did not respect the beloved and well-developed characters of the original game.
4070) This is not a hit at all.  Hard Pass.  Why would they bother?  Who appproved this abysmal poc
4071) Waste of time and ruined everything. Naughty dog went against all the good things the first games had. The plot has to be the stupidest in the history of any writing ever in the world.
4072) Why did they made her a lesbian????  Enough of this lgbt in this world. It is sick, Pathetic...
4073) My disappointment is immeasurable and my day is ruined.,I waited 5 years to play this,and they gave me a horrible introduction and a **** end
4074) Picture, music, performance, details are amazing, but the story is crap. Naughty dog just ruins this IP.
4075) game play was amazing, graphics are amazing, but the story is bad, and there is nothing left in a naughty dog game if the story is bad.
4076) The game is not the most action packed of its peers, so it NEEDED an amazing Story. Graphics are Nothing next to Gameplay and Story. Since the Gameplay is lacking, the Story really needed to be phenomenal. (Like the first game). Instead we are left with a character you dont sympathize with, and the idea that the characters you love  are the bad guys. It tried to hard to be deep, subversive, and Edgy. It doesn't have to be sunshine and Roses, but the game tries so hard to be M-Rared that it sacrifices story. They bring in cute dogs to have a fan favorite brutally slaughter it, they kill off a main character like hes nothing, they beat Joel ti death for a reason to broad to mean anything, and completely undermine the theme presented in the game. If a the main idea is that, revenge cycles never end, then you should stick to that idea and have revenge cycles not end. Then the character you hate has several flash backs that turns mediocre idea, into an obvious shoe in. If she really was planned, then she should have appeared at the hospital, if she is this christ figure the game makes her out to be, then why dont I care for her? I see many people saying Criticizing the game makes you a bigot. Let me just say, the representation in this game is great, and doesnt effect the game in any way. It's not treated as a big deal, which is good, it makes it seem like what it its, a normal thing, not some HUGE deal. I like that, but the way the game ends is just depressing, it's edgy for no reason. It hands you this **** idea, that you are a bad person, who deserves a **** life, even though you didnt make the decisions. It's like telltale punishing you but in a game where the decisions are pre-made. In the end, the game seems pointless, there to send a message that is empty. It's not depressing, its not deep, it's just a waste of resources and money. The idea employees were abused is already bad enough, but now their work is being **** on by a horrible story? Pathetic. The game is full of unnecessary Sex, and violence, but lacks the bloodlust when you wanna see it. They'll show a murderered dog, bleeding and whimpering, they'll show Joel getting his head smashed, Ellie losing a thumb, Dina being brutalized, Jessie being shot, Tommy losing an eye, but wont let us watch Ellie Kill Abby's Crew in detail, or even let us kill Abby in the end. I dont care about Abby, and that's not anyone's fault but the story. She's poorly written, and since she quickly kills a fan favorite, its laughable that they think well grow to like her. Imagine being forced to kill people as hitler, then getting called a bot or bigot for not enjoying the character. It's also extremely funny how they try to make us feel bad for Abby's (Forgettable) crew, but everytime one was killed I giggled and felt good, was I not supposed to enjoy that? Cause I really did! Tommy sniping that guy was AWESOME. It was amazing to see! Then the end has Abby suddenly worse for wear, in a christ like position, that's when I lost it. I dont CARE that she got hurt. We spent all that time with her and all i could think was "hehehe Nice". She is a ****ty protagonist and a ****ty antagonist, the last of us was built on the father daughter relationship, it is a mistake to remove that component.  It can work, but I doubted it would. The revenge story is only made worse by the laughable ending. Abby is let go, Ellie is single and cant even play guitar. Its edgy for people who dont like being edgy, its deep for people who have only ever stood in puddles, it's a story for people who have only read Alphabet books. It would be one thing to be unsatisfactory, but the lack of understanding its fans, and message, is another thing. Dont expect me to feel bad, don't expect compassion for a character we never cared about! Abby is very Similar to negan from the walking dead, there are 3 VERY different things they do that make him so loveable, 1.)Negan makes up for his actions, 2.) He does get punished in prison and a slit throat, 3.) They dont expect you to love him at all, the fans CHOSE TO after he was fleshed out, after he killed a side character; and after his intentions were made clear. He did it to neutralize a threat, Abby did it cause she was mad, and she gets away with it. Thank GOD I borrowed the game, it is a mess that (much like the star war sequels) focuses too much on being shocking. If you watch all the cut scenes at 2x speed and never think of it again? 10/10 game But the second you start to put any thought into the story, it all comes undone, 7 years of painstaking work wasted on some game with an identity crisis, you turned the last of us into a teen novel, the same type you mocked in the 1st game. When Van Gogh started, he painted the hands of the peasants,  he took a risk to make his art, he took time to think of the theme to present, the last of us tried to think, but stumbled and fell so hard on its face it ruins the franchise as a whole. Summary:**** happened I guess
4077) Why did naughty dogs wasted the relationship between Joel and Ellie worked during the first game
4078) They killed my favorite character in a stupid way and the person who killed them lived for a stupid reason I don’t like the game it feels repetitive.
4079) I hope they never make another last of us game cuz I aint  wasting anymore money. I cried in dissappointment and the ending makes it even worse.
4080) They should've known better than to do such a thing to a masterpiece like the world that was built before this installment. Highly disappointed, will be telling everyone who will listen not to bother if they appreciate quality writing in their games
4081) Imagine playing and loving the game because of one character. Getting excited for the second part. Waiting 7 years. Just for ur favorite character to die not even halfway in the game.
4082) Bad story, feels disconnected from previous game, the gameplay is exactly like the one from the previous game, doesn’t deserve a 95
4083) After playing and enjoying part 1. It is sad to see part 2 with bad story and just playing almost for no purpose! It a shame to see this and I wish the game stopped with part 1 and did t waste time on part 2.
4084) No words come to my mind right now, I'll not repeat what the whole gaming fans have said, this is a complete disrespect to us, Naughty dog has ruined it but the worst part is that they just take care about critics from important people, but not from their fans ...the ones for which they made this sequel, the ones that admired and loved TLOU1...Thanks for transforming the best game ever made into a dumb **** LGBTQ propaganda...If you really take care about what we think, don't even think about doing a 3rd part....for me and this community TLOU 2 DOESN'T EXIST.
4085) I think it's the worst thing they've ever done, being nice to certain social groups and forgetting what really matters in a video game......
4086) 1. The idea of Joel died in the first 3 hours gameplay is so **** up idea. THE LAST OF US (‘US’ should be Ellie & Joel!!) It’s about the survival,2. Abby is just **** up character that u made up (and we have to play and hit ellie??!!!) to suit dev’s **** up agenda,The rest of the games is beautiful
4087) Completely unfaithful and horrible game, storytelling is worse than awful, leaves a bad taste in your mouth after completing. Goes against the personality and ideals of characters in the first game (Joel) and teaches entirely pointless lessons which are contradictory at best and downright ill-minded at worst. Game-play, graphics, sound-design are great, but it is a story game that fails at being a story game, horrible characters and plot.
4088) Going into The Last of Us Part II with seeing all the leaks before the game released, I must admit I was quite skeptical. After playing this game, I was dissatisfied, and it felt as if I was spat at with nowhere to go. The environment and music were on par with the first game, but this game severely lacked any direction in terms of innovation. Repetitive fights arose at every story cutscene just to be disappointed at the end of it. I will it put any spoilers in this review but if you are anyone who was a fan of the characters in the first game then avoid this at all costs
4089) I have to live in this hellhole, and all you ever do is sit at home and play with ass and your **** at the same time. DUHH
4090) The die of Joel killed the game, and with The final is **** they are trying to make us have compassion
4091) It is a shame that for complying with an inclusive and politically correct agenda they have destroyed the history of a game that in its first part was so good, I finished it and I plan to get rid of it tomorrow, I should have listened to the leaks but decided to give it a try And thanks to that I guess I already lost at least 30 bucks, oh and thank the damn Druckmann ... I'll be looking forward to ghost of tsushima ...
4092) They really dropped the ball on this one. Graphics are nice, yes, but this is expected for a next gen game. Games here after will look as good. Plot is non existent. No depth between the relationships of the characters. No character growth. Horrible decisions with the characters from Naughty Dog. Boring protagonist. TERRIBLE ENDING.
4093) The story was fundamentally flawed and disrespectful to the original game. The game play made no attempt to evolve beyond where it was 7 years ago; it felt terribly dated and was a chore to play through in between cut scenes. The same game play loop was used over and over, against the same brain dead  AI. The art was nice aside from some wonky animation blending.
4094) Start with a positive. Gameplay improved. Now to the negative. Horrible plot pushing agenda rather than a plot based on enjoyment. I have never been so disappointed by any company. I wouldn't buy it again for 10 dollars let alone 60.
4095) I created this account just for this score rating. Game is good game, but ***...just save your money.
4096) A review from CN，very good job for Neil Druckmann, you have totally fxxked this game up, The Last of Us part 1 was a masterpiece, and yet you destroyed the game part 2 by your sh1t story, which could have become another masterpiece.  0 score for Neil Druckmann and his great job of ruining the series.
4097) All of the critic reviewers are quite obviously chained to a wall, with only there hands free and able to access a reviewing page, with an electric shocker being attached to their nipples if they give the game a blatantly honest negative score. Oh how my heart woes for these poor, captive critic reviewers, I pray for your safety, and the safety of any critic reviewers who give the game a negative review, for they will be lynched by the ever hungry mob.
4098) Like most movies most games have good graphycs and animation nowadays, so its nothing to praise, and the story is just pure gabage one power trippy man thought and every employee is to afraid to question.
4099) The age of Druckmann is over, Metacritic is back on the menu lads, it is time for the horde to devour the fields of Athenry.
4100) The story is totally **** up. Characters are not attracting. Tempo of game is strange. Also there are racism against Asians in the game. The game is totally SJWs' piece of **** -99999/10
4101) Empty story, repetitive and quite offensive against the fans... buy it if you want this but you're already warned
4102) Where should i start ???,The story was trash and spit on the legacy of the first game..,Joel died like a side charakter .. he was the reason that TLOU is so big now and you killed him so dishonorable !!!!,Everybody hates Abby and Neil **** forced us to play with her !!! i let me kill so many times !!!,The Abby storyline was trash, boring and garbage .. than you must punch Elli to death with Abby i mean wth do you thinking Neil **** ???,And the end was so **** .. she dont get her revenge but lost 2 fingers and lost all friends and is alone .. yeah this game **** up Elli and Joel and Abby the **** She-Hulk is free and sailed away ..,**** you Nail **** and **** you NaughtyDog
4103) I don't know what to say. There is no update on the graphic, sound, and gameplay. They even make it worse on storytelling. I don't know why they kill Joel and it makes no sense. How can a smart character die like that?
4104) The story in this story based game is trash..Poor writing and politics don't belong in video games
4105) They ruined it,They kill Joel in the first couple hours. The destroy established character development and to rub it in, the game director self inserts himself **** one of the characters. A complete disaster.
4106) Absolute garbage, reminded me of the last season of game of thrones. The story is god awful. Just really don't play it.
4107) Very, politic.,Is like a Justice Warrior now.,The Ellie character is now, so many bad minded.. is strange..
4108) don't have logics like in first parts. and really boring gameplay. Best waste your money on another game
4109) Joel just die?,Wtf,Joel was a really good character,The other characters were bad,And it is because they are bad,Not because they are LGBT,Terrible plot,Second game was better than that
4110) I played for a god 13 hours of the game I cant play this game any longer . the visuals are near perfect. The game has an amazing atmosphere. The biggest problem I have with the game is the story of the game. First with Joel's death happening after only the first 2 hours of the game by a character you play with through the game along side ellie. Everytime I played with abbie it makes me feel like turning off the game and never playing this game again. The story for this game is trash. If I had a chance for a refund I would definitely get one and not support naughtydog and specially neil druckman for making disasterpeice of a game.  Dont buy this game
4111) this is legitimately one of the laziest, most contrived, garbage stories ever written, neil stuckman or whatever his name is took one of the greatest games ever and just ruined its legacy with this absolute nonsense fanfiction. some of the worst writing since game of thrones season 8,,1/10,,i wish i could erase this awful game from my memory because it was THAT bad.
4112) This game is an absolute disaster and evil masquerading as art. A completely stupid and nonsensical story told through absurd and unjustified levels of brutality and violence. This game is rotten and will leaving you feeling the same - it's like everyone at Naughty Dog has some sick infatuation with watching and making people suffer (including the player) - how is this the same company that used to make fun games like Jak and Uncharted??,Find yourselves again Naughty Dog, this game is evil.
4113) Spoiled the beloved characters we know from the last of us part 1,and they used there Homosexuality agenda in the the game we all love.
4114) This game is absolute garbage. If you are interested in the story then just watch a playthough of it on YouTube. I don’t know who thought a post apocalyptic revenge plot was a good idea but they should be fired for how they disrespected the story and characters built up in the first The Last of Us game. It’s so obvious that Neil Druckmann wrote this game for himself and not for the fans. The gameplay itself is basically the same as the first game with a few minor added details and the graphics are phenomenal but it’s quite literally nothing we haven’t seen before. The Last of Us Part II does nothing to innovate itself or the genre it fits in like its consumer based had hoped. It’s just absolute nonsensical for what it was.,Spoilers: The way they disrespected Joel’s character in a way that completely tears apart the character Naughty Dog designed him to be in Part 1 is a testament to their mindset when producing the entirety of this game. And honestly how does Ellie manage to kill dozens of people throughout the entire game but OUT OF NOWHERE has an epiphany as if rEVeNgE iS WrONg when faced with the opportunity to enact the revenge that the whole story is centered around? Honestly Neil, you should re-evaluate your love for writing good original stories because this wasn’t it.
4115) Bad character development, bad writing.,Great graphics, but who needs that in a rubber tasteless game...,,They tried to please the people that won't buy this shiet of a game and just ignored the player/gamer that loved the first one. Ya know what's worse? They fired the women who wrote the story for the first game. Hypocrites.
4116) Don’t bother with this game it is very disrespectful to the first one it’s as if everything they went through didn’t matter Joel has a brain of a 3 year old all of a sudden Ellie is spiteful and completely different than the first game almost unlike able and don’t get me started e with Abby. Please people for change we need to make a stance do not buy this game save your money for something else I beg of you it’s a waste of time I will be going to turn this in tonight. Shame.
4117) pure agenda pushing game, The 1 is only for the devs who did an amazing job but the story and SJW ruined the game and it doesn't matter how hard and well people worked on it anymore.
4118) So basically there are 2 types of gamers:,1) Blind Fans, that give a 10 out of pure love for their brand or developing house,2) Fans that still care of what is given them and don't accept all the crap down their throat.,I'm part of the second group and this game is pure garbage, yes technically astounding the PS4 is pushed at its limits, but the rest? The rest is pure disapointement, I've played all the ND games but maaaaan this game is so far from what I'd call a AAA game. It's more a pure nonsense s*** decorated with golden graphics. #RIPNaughtyDog
4119) Just a really bad story.  Just a really really really really bad story.  I'm telling you this is a really really really bad story.
4120) Shove your PC, LGBT leftist proganda up your **** ass. This is a game for people with iq less then 60 and for those who don't play he's at all (feminists, LGBT activists, left-wing retards, etc). Why would even consider to make a game aiming THIS audience. I'll say it again, they do not play video games.,If Sony discontinue naughty dog, I will be pleased
4121) I'd give:,9 for graphic,8 for gameplay,8 for music,-99 for story,overall 0
4122) The long swaited sequel to one of the best games of 2013. Druckman takes a golf club to the characters who you grew to love. They are completely wasted and spat on in Druckmans 1 man reign of terror on the male patriarchy, I mean sequel. I wont deny this game the credit it deserves for how visually oustanding it looks, especially in 4k, the world around you looks absolutley stunning. But unfortunately thats the only stunning feature that can be found in this game. A typical revenge plot line that is lost in itself with the 20000 characters that it introduces and tries desperatley to make relevant to an already established storyline. Closure was the one thing I was seeking out of this sequel. The first game ends with a cliff hanger that leaves it much to the players own interpretation. Joel lies to Ellie and we are shown that Ellie knows that there is something that Joel is not telling us. Cut forward 4 years we have Ellie who is much older and a lesbian. The only closure we receive is through vietnam guitar flashbacks of Joel and Ellie. The only thing I got from this game that has given me some sense of fullfilment is the 5 minute scene mid game where Ellie confronts Joel in a flashback where she forces Joel to tell her the truth about the fireflies and what really happened while she was unconcious in the surgery room. The remainder of present day interactions showcase a rocky and abrupt relationship between Joel and Ellie that is only explained during flashback sequences as you reluctantly force yourself to progress with the main story. The only slight glimmer of Joel and Ellie that we see is one other 5 minute sequence where Joel and talk after their fallout, where Joel tell hers that if he could go back, he would do it all again and ellie half forgiving him for what he did. Im not going to even touch on the ridiculous exposition and complete deviation with Dina and Ellies coming of age teen pregnancy lesbian relationship that was nothing but mundane and boring. 2 hours into the game Joel gets fkn Murked by Abby, a girl man who seeks revenge on Joel becuase Joel kills her dad... who was some random NPC in the first game and suddenly a sequels entire plot is spun around this fact ? This game is riddled with social justice micro agressions, but that isnt why this game is bad in my opinion. This game has very poor, contrived writing that is desperatley trying to prove a point to it's audience. Its forced and extremely unconvincing. This a very big step down from it's predecessor. What makes this all come full circle is that the message behind this revenge story is that "revenge is bad m'kay". A 25 hour stretched out story that could have been honestly 11-13 hours long witout losing its depth. The game makes an extreme U-Turn when we switch focus from Ellie to Abby. Abby is the Main Character of the sequel, the game has just forced this completely new and irrelevant character on us and is trying very desperatley to force its player to sympathise with her/him by subjecting you to almost 15 hours of cringe dialogue and character exposition through ill timed interactive set pieces. The big point behind this entire plot was "breaking the cycle of violence"  now the problem that I have with this is, in your quest for vengance, Ellie single handidly murders a ton of people including pregnant women. You basically leave a mass grave of bodies in your wake but when you finally confront the antagonist, the entire 25 hours you have sunk into this garbage heap goes to absolute waste as the final showdown ends in a half assed fist fight and a moraly confilicting self existential crisis. You let Abby live and suddenly Ellie DeGeneres realises after months of taking names and torturing people that suddenly she can possess the moral highground by deciding after murking 999 people, that the 1000th person is when she wants to "break the cycle of violence". The one person this revenge story leads to, is the one and only person that is spared due to moral conflict.... Gameplay can never be the redeeming factor when the story is this bad. This game fkd up when it started implementing things that the community didnt want inorder to satisy those who don't play.,,0/out of **** 10, simp simulator. If you love sucking on Druckman's **** this is the game for you.
4123) Worst experience I've ever had, Just finished the game today and I've got to say that that was the worst story experience I've ever played
4124) Poorly written story, pointlessly pushed SJW agenda, don't waste your money
4125) One of the worst games I have ever played in my life. I really do not know where to even begin. The game can best be summarized as "misery porn" with graphics so realistic it will give you ptsd. The level of violence in the game is similar to a IRL snuff film. There is also an extremely graphic sex scene that made me want to gouge my eyes out. Neil Druckmann thinks hes Hideo Kojima when hes really just a washed up loser. Amy Henning was the real genius at Naughty Dog. I question if I will ever buy a Naughty Dog game ever again. Please, please do not buy this game. Lets let Naughty Dog know with our wallets we didn't want this and don't want this ever again. The fact that all the gaming press gave it a 10/10 is a joke.
4126) Keep going on putting politics into video games, you're doing well. This game does not deserve any attention.
4127) I stand with the masses around in the world in being soul crushingly disappointed and heartbroken by the death of our beloved Joel. All these years I waited, pre-ordered and set aside time to play this I was beyond excited. To be faced with our wonderful Joel have his life brutally taken
4128) I don’t want to see LGBT people in the game. I play games to respond from the real world. No need to put social minorities into the game.
4129) The story is **** Dont waste a single dollar on this **** really dispointed
4130) Playing as Abby to f up Ellie?! And overrun by SJW agendas? Joel got killed so early in game? Fkn ****
4131) stupid story!!boring game-play for 30 hours!! stupid stealth for 30 hours!! eternal shame.
4132) With a boring story, simple characters, not interesting gameplay and awful visuals and audio, The Last of Us Part II is probably one of the worse videogame experiences out there and it’s pretty easy to give it a bad score and call it a day. But honestly, thanks to the mild pace, lgbt and "stressful situations", it may not be for everyone.
4133) I wanted to like this game. The first Last of us was great. Part 2 IS NOT. I’ve never been so disappointed by a game. Truly a catastrophe on so many levels. It’s just COMPLETE GARBAGE. Naughty dog used to make great games, not anymore.
4134) **** disappointed, the game writer doesn’t  think about our feeling. Always want to be politically right. I will never buy one **** game from Naughty dog again. Don’t respect your fans
4135) Another great franchise totally ruined...Time to move on to Xbox..This is not a sequel this is just an insult..
4136) The most overated game with a very **** story, Joel deserved a better ending than this golf of nonesense.
4137) Deceiving trailer, dissapointing story, pushing a political narrative. Dissapointing game with questionable developer motives.
4138) Horrible story. The game is an absolute mess. It doesnt know what it wants to be. When you focus too much on forcing political agendas instead of building good characters you will never have a good game.
4139) This game has great graphics, good sound design, but I keep getting the bad ending where I have to **** a transsexual.
4140) Seriously! You killed ••••• to promote LGBT. I was hoping for a moving story like in the first part and I received a politically correct crunch.,WTF you can’t even rate this SH*T
4141) I can't describe how disappointed I feel about this game. I loved the father and daughter bound between Joel and Ellie in the first game just as the bound between Lee and Clementine from the Walking Dead of Telltales. You can't just destroy a hero like that and force the fans to play complete stranger who brutally murdered that father figure in a most gruesome way. I cried when Lee Everett died in Walking Dead but the difference is he didn't just die for nothing, he died in peace feeling proud of Clementine and he had his peace with the death. But Joel got killed horribly right in front of Ellie and the spitting on the body of Joel right after his graphic killing is the most despicable insult one can make to fan base. I am done with Naughty Dog games.
4142) I cannot explain the level of disappointment I experienced with this game. Visually this is a stunning game, but what made the first Last of Us amazing was the characters and the story, and in this game the writers/creator completely destroyed the characters and the story. The creators committed character assassination with one of the games most beloved characters for no logical reason. This game’s trailers are a lie, playing off what made the first game great so they could hook gamers in, just to pull the rug out from under us in the actual game. Why critics have rated this game so high is beyond me. It’s like they don’t understand character development and story consistency. You start off the game disappointed and angry and you will end the game disappointed and angry. This game will go down as The Last Jedi of video games.
4143) Just a garbage game. Nothing like the original. Sad to see such an amazing franchise go down hill so fast.
4144) Naughty Dog just lost it's reputation and likeliness to what it means to create a full rich story(like the first one) with awesome gameplay and experience.This game is not worth the money nor your time.It pushes towards feminism right off the bat.
4145) the game is messed up in the story in a bad way i have nothing to like it except the environment of the game and story is truly **** up
4146) The story of this game is an absolute dumpster fire that disrespects the characters of the first game even worse than recent star wars are a disgrace to the original characters. If you want to pay 60 bucks to get preached to by the PC police then this game is for you! If not, avoid at all costs. I would have even been fine with certain things happening, i knew there was a reckoning coming for some characters, but the way they actually do it, and the entire storyline is just an epic failure. The ending alone is enough reason to pretend this game never existed, TLOU future needs to retcon this entire pathetic excuse for a story and reboot the series with an actual story that is interesting and not just political agenda driven garbage.
4147) bad story bad gameplay bad graphics bad game overall most bad game ever i dont think so but its sooo bad
4148) Worst game in 2020
4149) Despite advances in graphics its completely undone by its story and monotonous gameplay. I found myself struggling to keep playing with a lot of the wash, rinse, repeat gameplay. By the time I got to the Seattle day 2, I found the entire game to just be a chore to get through.
4150) Queer is not the problem. Asian or woman is not the problem. It's the story, stupid
4151) There are two things in this game that seriously pisses me off.,,Firstly, the fact that they killed of Joel is actually fine with me. I get it, create drama, a new story line, seek revenge, etc.,But the way they did it is absolutely disgusting. It's as if this Joel is a totally different character from the first game. They turned him absolutely moronic, made him do a mistake he'd never do and let him die off in an ambush without giving him any honor.,Are you seriously trying to tell me that Joel, someone with more than 25+ year of experience in that post apocalyptic world, suddenly starts trusting random strangers who appeared on his patrol and walks straight up into their camp without checking whether it's actually save for him or not?,Like wtf? That's the total opposite of what he did in the very first game when he was on the way to bring Ellie to the fireflies and had his first encounter with raiders.,Why would someone who is normally always cautious, someone who has killed and made A LOT of enemies suddenly turn so gullible and stupid? Running into a camp full of uniform wearing people. I **** can't.,,Secondly, why the **** does it seem like as if there are only women in the game?,First off, I have nothing against women, i think it's actually pretty cool that you find female enemies and Ellie is obviously awesome and dear to everyone's heart who played the first game.,But aren't you taking it a bit too **** far?,Disregarding the fact that Naughty Dog killed off their male main protagonist,,they turned Ellie into a lesbian and made her have a female partner. Sure, it's fine, nothing original.,It's not like any other goddamn game or movie with a female main protagonist tried to please the LGBT/feminist community by turning everything lesbian or by showing how women dont need men, etc.,The main antagonist, Abby is also a woman. You know what? It's cool. Rarely seen and i'm fine with it.,But why the **** are like 80% of the enemy human NPCs women? Aren't you making it too **** obvious who you are trying to please? I wouldn't be **** surprised to zoom in on infected and find a pair of boobs on every goddamn bloater.,Underrepresenting females is not good, so you chose to overrepresent them? wtf?,The reason this ****s me off is because the way youdo it is way too different from the first game. What, you are trying to tell me that most men suddenly died and only females are left in this world? It doesn't even make **** sense. But I guess Joel killed of most of the male goons in the first game huh.,,No opinion on the story yet, since i haven't finished it yet. But it's already getting **** on here by everyone else so there really is no need for me to mention anything about it. But man, what a disappointment.
4152) Literally have no problem with their community. I have a problem with **** story telling for the sake of appeasing someone and or trying to capitalize on a group of people and moment in time disregarding everything built and great about the first game. Do not buy.
4153) While the technical aspects of this game is fairly executed, the plot is such an illogical mess that the game ends up being unplayable. Full of plot holes and forced events, which are in no way beneficial to the development of the story of Joel and Ellie that I would guess most were waiting for. If you were expecting to be immerse in the story and characters, then you are out of luck and would suggest for this game to be a pass. If  on the other hand you want  to kill zombies and walk just grinding with no reason, then this is a fairly expensive way of doing that. The graphics and physics of this game are top notch for the PS4, but I think is not worth the suffering. Would you go to the cine to see a great CG movie with a horrible plot? If yes then this is your game. Just be aware that is trying too much to be politically correct.
4154) Plot holes, terrible story, horrible characters, just a huge waste of time. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. It is a huge waste. Thank god Nathan Drake made it out before Druckman ruined him.
4155) Naughty Dog ruined such beloved characters and created a terrible story in the process that makes this game unbearable to even finish.
4156) Story is just TRASH. I played Tlou1 only because of the Story because gameplay was bad. Its just the same bad gameplay here. And they ruined the story.
4157) it's ma'am! Destroys the previous protagonists, has a terrible, boring story, has new unlikable characters nd spits on what fans loved about the first game.
4158) This game is just garbage. Graphics are good but the story which is why we bought it is extremely bad.
4159) Politicized SJW scum. Muscular inhumans called "woman" and other **** should never exist in the game which are mostly bought by sane ppl.
4160) Absolutely beautiful game and the difficulty settings are amazing, but the game itself is horrible! This game honestly just feels like it was made to cash in on the popularity of the first, and the story and characters just feel hollow.
4161) Terrible script writing, worst sequel ever published for any game in games industry, lazy writing, stupid plot holes, disaster story driven game. Stay away, save your money and don't fund this trash, if you will, they'll continue to make more of this trash as standard.  Endless suffering with no choices, you're forced to brutally kill and mutilate characters, with ZERO alternatives.  Terrible story writing for a story driven game.. I wish Anita's SJW agenda was not part of it either.
4162) Horrible storry, horrible marketing and down right western LGBT propaganda. I will never buy a naughty dog game ever.
4163) When Neil druckmann said "we don't use the word fun" he REALLY wasn't kidding. Tlou2 is a betrayal to the original game's character, story, and fans. I should have listened to the rumors. i'll just pretend that this game doesn't exist
4164) This game is **** it’s so bad, such a terrible story. Joel dies and elie dies too! The story is lacking and Is so political, some people just want to escape the bad of the world and have fun in video games but this is so political and shows gay/trans people in a bad light.
4165) Last of Us ended in the first game for me. I'm really disappointed with what they did in this game.
4166) No soul Just meaningless politics ruining games people loved.,Here for my autistic friend that was crying when he found out how the story went in the game. Since he really liked the characters on the first game and it's dlc.
4167) Made an account just specifically to tell everyone to save their money, this game does not deserve it. The creators do not care about the fan base and ruined a legendary could be franchise. The storyline is terrible and lazy, unlike the first game. You will be disappointed. Nothing in this game is good but the graphics.,To start off they kill the main character in the most nonsensical way imaginable. Then they make you play as the antagonist trying to appeal to her reasoning, which we’ll never understand. And to top it all off, Ellie goes on a rampage to kill everyone to kill said antagonist, just to let her go free.,Wish Naughty Dog had more respect for their fan base but this game proves they couldn’t care less.,Rated a 1 out of respect for the first game.
4168) I would have rather opened the game case and found a smushed dog turd there instead of the game. I would rather have paid someone 60 dollars to pepper spray me and then kick me in the junk... Save your money!!!
4169) Absolutely hated this game. They ruined the characters made Joel seem weak. Made too many political statements. Waste of money.
4170) About the game: They ruined the sequel of a beloved franchise by inserting woke ideas,  further insulting the fanbase by spitting on our beloved character not once but three times.... at leastSpoilers (ellie insult joel's feeling, making joel a wimp,  murdering joel with a random npc),,About the company:  Underpays their employees while increasing the hours overtime.  People working for them that doesn't agree with their agenda will be isolated.  attacking whoever dares to criticize their game with dmca attack (even on memes), further insulting the fanbase with false reviews (like whoever doesn't give a good opinion will lose early access to new games),,About the reviews:  Most negative opinion will be deleted due to sony's demand.  Most positive reviews does not include any opinion about the game itself but the idea (agenda) of the game, what kind of rubbish of a review they trying to shove into the comsumers
4171) Clear political agenda affected the characters and story, the game is TERRIBLE!
4172) This game was disappointing and made just some **** moves to early and made the overall story not so great for the rest of the game and now all i have is a bad experience with good graphics and they don't cancel each other out im just left with a bad taste in my mouth. I'd advise to watch someone play it and l honestly wish i did but now i have a 60$ door stopper so head my Warning.
4173) personally that they serve so many nice things in the graphics and others if the story is horrible
4174) They ruined the story. Made the game political instead of relevant to how the characters would actually act. Can’t even return this. DO NOT BUY!!
4175) 0/10, bad story that makes no sense at all. it isn't even about "The Last of Us" anymore, but rather about some love story
4176) The story is the most onrealistisch story i ever seeing in my whole Games life.
4177) Joelllllllllllllll U made stupid story 7 years waiting for joel and eille And u do terrible story
4178) the game is bad, nobody gives a **** about ellie, we wanted lots of joel in this. now all this time and money wasted on a pile of garbage of a game, dont waste your cash on this **** the game sucks, until devs understand or go bankrupt. pieces of ****
4179) This game has a lazy and **** writing.. God.. Just seeing the first few hours of this game makes me feel disgusted.. Who the hell wrote this? This is just plain bad writing in general and why would they think that players would root for this new character who just kill one of the main characters and play as that character??,What the **** Don't believe the critic reviews and the hype. This game is nothing but a highly budgeted fanfiction.,I would like to pretend this game did not exist.,The Last of Us ends on the first game.
4180) I dedicate this 0 to all the artists who were censored and fired for the development of this game. Freedom of expression will triumph.
4181) I hope the game devs go home and Budd Dwyer themselves over this failure of a game and political nonsense.
4182) Making games that include propaganda will make the industry worst. Everyone spouse to have fun not certain type of people
4183) I've been waiting for so many years! As a result, the worst game of the year .. In the game of politics, the hero is two-faced! It’s not worth spending your money on this slag.
4184) They fd up the game, bad writting huge plotholes, idc about the whole lgbtq+ part in the game, but the way they treated ma boi...
4185) Naughty dog if you won't kill Joel and if we didn't have to play Abby's despicable then your game would be 100 times better but you made that big mistake
4186) What a piece of junk! This game is absolute garbage,I can’t believe we waited 7 years for this!?,This game shouldn’t be aloud to be called a sequel to the last of us
4187) This game is a spit to the face from Naughty Dog and Neil Druckmann. The game disrespects its own characters by killing Joel in the worst way imaginable and twisting Ellie's story into the biggest heap of garbage I've ever seen. I understood that killing Joel was supposed to make me angry. It was supposed to make me want revenge. But the way the rest of the story was written just made everything worse.,,The first half of the game was semi decent. Great graphics, improved combat, but that was about it. There were barely any puzzles and most of the ones that were present took less than 10 seconds to figure out. I was never once stumped or amazed by any puzzles. The story made no sense with Ellie making decisions that didn't feel right with her character. And then half way through the  game, right when its building up to the climax, you begin playing as Abby. Good joke naughty dog, now take me back to what I was doing before. Oh wait, you're Abby for the rest of the **** game.,,You lose all progress you made with Ellie. All your guns, skills, items, GONE. Once I realized I would be playing as Abby for a while longer I just become completely uninterested in what was happening. I didn't go out of my way to loot. I didn't have any interest upgrading my guns or skills. I just rushed through every scenario trying to get back to playing as Ellie. But it just kept going. I just stared at my screen with a blank face for 12 hours trying to get to the end of the game.,,The story tries to get you to understand Abby's side and begin to like her. However, I despised her the whole way through. Her story made even less sense and she would make the dumbest decisions. Games are meant to be fun and enjoyable for the player. I don't want some petty "revenge is bad" plot. I want revenge, I want action, I want satisfaction. However, I got none of that.,,I guess its my fault for buying the game before reading actual player reviews. I respected Naughty Dog as one of the best game developers. I have been enjoying naughty dog games ever since my childhood with Crash. The Last of Us 1 was one of my favorite games of all time so I thought this would be a continuation of a beloved masterpiece.,,I wouldn't be upset about any of the "SJW" themes in the game if they weren't so forced and poorly written. I have no problem with anyone trying to express who they want to be, but Druckmann inserts these themes and characters just to make a point. I found Abby's sidekick the most boring character in the game. He talks in a monotone voice and his lines are delivered so poorly. I had no emotion for any of the deaths or subplots that were happening near the end of the game. I was mainly in disbelief that a studio like Naughty Dog would create one of the worst games I have ever played.  The ending is dragged out for so long. There were so many times I was expecting for the screen to go black and the credits to start rolling, but it just kept going and getting worse. It felt like Druckmann had no idea how to end it so he just kept adding more garbage to the pile.,,I was so excited for this game to come out and was prepared to do multiple playthroughs. However there was no satisfaction, no fun, and the ending was complete trash. Guess I'm joining the bandwagon that The Last of Us 2 is not canon. I am going to be very wary towards buying the next Naughty Dog game as I have lost almost all respect. What a waste of $60.
4188) the first one was a good game,this sequel is just poorly written,disgusting and disturbing
4189) story is ****  trash of the year
4190) Did you enjoy the great character building and relationship dynamics in the original game? The touching, well written story with moments of hope and moments of despair? Tough **** lmao, hope you enjoy p o o r l y written continuations of characters,  ham fisted "violence bad" virtues interspersed between hours of brutal violence, and no redeeming aspects other than visual appearance? The game itself is gorgeous, the story is horrendous.
4191) Another example of going woke at the cost of a cohesive story. Another game virtue signaling politics making the story awful.
4192) **** this dumbass game. To be honest, I'm alright with Ellie and Dina and all of the other gay **** But they killed Joel on the stupidest way and then made me play as the killer. **** this game.
4193) I was and remain a huge fan of the original The Last of Us. It was one of my favorite games of last generation and Joel and Ellie are two of my favorite game characters of all time. The Last of Us Part 2 spits on these two great character's legacy as well as in the faces of fans of the original.
4194) The game is literally a s*x simulator. Waste of money and time and shoves political ideas down your throat most of the game, the rest is poor dialogue.
4195) The game si a real **** !!! how can they **** such a good game? spend my money for a disappointing story!
4196) Just save your money for Ghost of Tsushima. The story sucks so much that it makes me wanna vomit. Way to ruin a perfect franchise.
4197) I don’t have any issue with the transgender character. The game looks amazing but the story is total **** Why do I have to play as the character that killed Joel? Wtf. The second half of this game is painfully boring.
4198) Practically the worst storyline i have ever seen. Killing a loved character for shock value? Why would you do that?
4199) Shame lgbt trying to corrupt humanity. Beware. Do research and rise against this evil lobby
4200) They completely destroyed the franchise with this. The story would be good in a movie, but in a game... It terrible. And the characters are boring, they simply aren't interesting.
4201) I am absolutely disappointed with the misery pron that is this game, i'll go back and enjoy the first one thank you.
4202) Too much stupid SJW pandering and no innovation, weak story and bad plot leaks
4203) I always believe that the story must be the most essential part in 3A games. However the story of this game is like something wrote by a monkey.
4204) Why the Agenda? You ruined the game.im really really disappointed. I was waiting for the game. And you guys ruined it. Shame.
4205) What a waste... I'm really disaponted......................................
4206) This game just destroy the previous game, I don't know what happened. They played us like a damn fiddle.
4207) The main characters from the first game became bland and boring. Predictable. Bad game, terrible story, laughable plot holes. Don't buy it.
4208) DON'T BUY this **** game, worst story ever, just another politically correct game with no sense and literally zero correlation with the first game. Do not recommend
4209) Character development at its worse, really can’t understand why they would ruin such an incredible story
4210) My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined, bruh this is a spit in the face of the original
4211) To sell your ideology to a forum. This is a video game and the swj policy has no place, it ruins the gaming experience. You pay $ 60 to give them a 20 hour sermon and destroy the characters of the first game.
4212) Naughty Dog literally Spit in the Faces of their Audience..it's a Disgrace to The last of us 1.. Story is a train wreck. No respect to the Original.Save your money.
4213) Really bad story.... We dont want moral lessons... We want fullfilling story. Sad or happy ending dosnt matter but a good and fullfilling story.
4214) Vastly disappointed with the games story and character direction. There are just too many annoying and mishandled aspects of the overall story that ruined the game for me. Anyone who actually is invested in the story would agree. The game play and visuals were great but the game was killed by forced story and character decisions that destroyed what could have been an amazing game. To all of the articles and people defending this game and saying that it is getting review bombed for no good reason and that people just don’t understand the genius of the story like you do, you are delusional. Lots of people are upset because extremely important aspects of the game suck. The game is like a polished piece of **** The game might look and play good but in the end it’s still a piece of ****
4215) Just bad not good. Boring and story isn't that good. Sad they ruined the game. No excuse
4216) this game disappointed me in so many ways, glad I´m gonna get my refund back
4217) 1 trans & the cuck lord shaking choco milk: the videogame & knuckles -Remastered-,Ft. the first L3Zb1AN cuck in videogame's history
4218) **** sjw **** with ugly girls and tons of ****Better get re3 remake. Or replay laou 1.
4219) Absolutely dog **** game. Worst revenge story possibly ever. I just finished and made a MC account just to tell everyone how god awful this game is. Poorly written characters and plot line, stupid shoehorned plot twists that are nonsensical and quite frankly aggravating. Druckmann and his team should be reprimanded for how ****ty this game is. It **** on Amy’s legacy and made all of ND look like a bunch of assclowns.
4220) neel Сuсkman could hang himself!  Hope he will drown in goat sеmеn! You get what you deserve , hope that the sqad of transgenders will rape neel!
4221) no zombies no fun, this game sucks the history is really bad, nobody have sentido, and the graphics are bad
4222) this is holly **** story. about lesbians its just a game, playing childrens. i think its horrible.
4223) They certainly ruined this series like they did Uncharted. Don't waste your money!
4224) They **** killed Joel like that, with a **** golf club, a **** golf club omg I'm gonna break my ps4,These sjw should stay in their **** den and not come out Neil cuccman ruined the game for me His story was so ass,I played the game bcz of Joel not Ellie I knew Joel was going to die But they could've gave him a better and deserving death like going out for protecting Ellie The script feels like a 10 year old worte the **** story **** the story writer and **** the sjw community that influenced the game they should stay and cry out irl not in the gaming community
4225) Trash. I was a rabid of the first, having made my fiance (who is NOT a gamer) watch me play through the first scene with Joel losing his daughter. Even she recognized how good that scene (aka the story development) was... Well. That ended with this sequel. I would never show this garbage story to family.
4226) **** Anita Sucksiryan, we didnt need u to destroy one of the best games that has been ever made. U wanted to get high score? u got it. but user score is much more important, cuz users buy the game
4227) The worst example I can think of a game company betraying its fans. Would really like to know what the hell Naughty Dog was thinking. They kill of Joel in the most meaningless way possible.  And then force you to play as his killer, a character they work hard to make you hate.  I'll admit I stopped right there. That was enough for me. They did a great job of making me never want to play it again. First one is my favorite game ever too. Absolute garbage, don't give them your money.
4228) The gameplay was mind-numbing dull.  The story was meh.  The game was seemingly trying too hard, and it looks like the developer forgot that games are better when they are FUN.
4229) All the special things about The Last of Us were forgotten in the sequel -- or resumed to flashbacks. The characters are poorly written and we are forced to control a disgusting one though de story. The gameplay only added jumping and dodging, beside that and the large areas, it's basically the same 2013 mechanics. The graphics are good and the representation of minoritys as well. Beside that, terrible stories.
4230) The worst piece of garbage I have ever played in my life, I already sold the game...although I feel bad for the poor soul who will have to deal with it, but now thinking about it, maybe it will help to get another negative review and so on...and so on...it is a circle like the Ying and the Yang. Infinite negative reviews!
4231) TLOU2 **** my brain.,In TLOU 1, Joel and Ellie passed through hard times with me, gave me emotional sympathy on becoming a family in an apocalyptic world, and Joel turned his back against the world ONLY FOR ELLIE. All characters and stories were designed well and convincing, so I could agree with Joel even though his decision was not perfect for the world at the final scene.,Now all of the descriptions on Joel and Ellie are meaningless. Joel was super suspicious to everyone except Ellie but now becomes a very friendly neighbor, and Ellie does not agree with Joel's decision in the hospital though she looked like agreed in TLOU1. I had cried for a while during playing this game, and I will buy no games if it is directed by Neil Druckmann. You **** up my seven-year waiting, memories with Joel and Ellie, and even TLOU1.
4232) **** garbage storyline waste of your **** money don’t recommend buying this garbage ass game
4233) They killed Joel that alone for me made me hate it. They did not do him justice at least they should have let him kill some people before going down with a **** up leg.
4234) Disgusting plot, too much stupid propaganda. You poured all your efforts into the toilet.
4235) Barely updated gameplay from its 7 year old predecessor, an absolutely awful story with SJW propaganda forced into it, and an incredibly disappointing ending with the newly introduced characters just as bad, and replacing the beloved characters (who are eliminated quickly and without justice).,,A pitiful sequel to an excellent first game.
4236) Franchise Killer,,I usually just look at meta critic to get a sense of the game but never review stuff. But boy a boy this is one hell of an infuriating dumpster fire that pushed me to warn other people to just save their 60 bucks.,The story is beyond bad in a game which was supposed to driven by story and narrative. I don't care about the SJW stuff that half the reviews here are about. It is the Characters that are just sooo badly written. Their actions don't make any sense whatsoever. The point that they are trying to make comes off as soo mute. And the ending ? Well it just makes the entire game meaningless and pointless blood bath. I have no idea what they were trying to make you feel , but they failed miserably.,,Just save your money and stay away from this. A story based game without a proper story is worthless.,,This game is an absolute insult and spit in the face of everything the original Last of Us was. It is tragic to see such a beloved franchise be destroyed this way.,,A disgrace to the legacy. RIP TLOU
4237) I will never buy another game from this freaking studio again. Not just saying that. That's how much I hate this game. Story is complete trash. Destroys everything good that the first game established. If you loved the first game, you will hate this one. ND you suck beyond belief. CD Projekt Red will destroy this crap title this fall. Goodbye and good riddance. PS Had the night to sleep on it and now am angry all over again. Afterthought: ND and Sony I want no part of your sick, hate-filled, miserable world view. You disgust me.
4238) I can't believe what they did to Joel, Vinesauce is never going to be the same again.
4239) I can’t even describe how horrible this game is and how disappointed I am.
4240) This is just pathetic.... I’ve waited so long for this piece of **** game. And please you stupid 2020 trash journalists, don’t think it’s because we are homo-/ transphobic. I don’t care about Ellie being a lesbian and I wouldn’t care if there was a Trans joining the story, but it’s just sooooo bad. You can just tell this Trans was forced into the game and the story is just pure **** now. Just disappointed.
4241) Wtf did I just played? Yes, ghe graphics are good but...wtf...naught dog, shame on you. This is pure trash.
4242) Story is **** I never expect this **** Shame on you Naughty Dog,Uncharted series is much more better than this ****,You messed up
4243) Penis fart Penis fart Penis Fart Penis Fart Penis fart Penis fart Penis Fart Penis Fart Penis fart Penis fart Penis Fart Penis Fart Penis fart Penis fart Penis Fart Penis Fart Penis fart Penis fart Penis Fart Penis Fart and that's why The last of us 2 is a disaster
4244) I must say this was one of the most boring games i have ever played the moment i was forced to play as character that killed my favourite one from the last of us 1? totally mad
4245) We don't hate LGBT, we just hate selfishness and double standards，Why do our emotions need game makers to make decisions for us
4246) Shame on you naughty dog for ruining such a masterpiece franchise and spitting on the first game face
4247) Don´t like the story and the bad ending.  a very overrated game!!!!!!!!!!!!
4248) my god... how can you release game with that retarded writing. Plot holes, unlikable characters, forced political agenda... Never buying fro. ND again.
4249) I can’t believe I spent $60 on this garbage. The story was worse than raw sewage in a dumpster that was lit on fire and thrown into Australia. Like seriously I broke the disk and put it in my compost bin I don’t even think the worms like this game. 0/10
4250) Completely removes the impact the first game had. Throws SJW agendas in your face. A terrible sequel to an amazing franchise, would never recommend playing this, unless you like being hurt. Storytelling is trash. Graphics are nice, but they are common amongst recent game. I'd suggest you spend your money on a better game.
4251) first this game is 500 tl in turkey and it is a lot of money in turkey. i think that no one could buy this game expect from tlou fans like me.,,you are giving a lot of money for one single game and you want see something great. well but this game isnt GREAT  it is very BAD.,,I DONT CARE ABOUT GRAPHICS!!!! I just wanted to see how story continues so i bought this super expensive game and story was f*cked up. they just f*cked first game. WTF? did you think 7 years to write this story?,you have to do better,,come on Naughty Dog .
4252) Buggy mess that forgets the events of the first game while trying to deliver a message about revenge and failing once you consider all sides. Shock value added just for shock value.
4253) I finished this game, started from midnight as soon as it came out. And i didn't stop playing because i was hoping for the game to redeem itself for making the godawful decisions it did.,,This game is not special, the plot is cheap and there is nothing unique about it or the characters involved in it. The game constantly tries to force strange things in, like being trans or whatever. It all felt out of place. There no issue with the character being trans, but why did the game make it a big deal?! It had NOTHING to do with ANYTHING. at all. It just left me in the same state i was in for 90% of the game, which was that i just wanted to get to the next section so i could just know what happens next. Surely, the way this game started, there must be a reason. there must be some sort of redemption..,,And i only kept playing because i wanted ellie to do just ONE thing by the end of the game. JUST ONE. and even then it wouldn't be fully redeemed for how they treated beloved characters from the first game.,,And so i get to the end of the game, and i didn't even get what i wanted. (Pretty sure, what everyone wanted). Instead i got a boring, terrible, awful, nonsensical ending. Where everything that was experienced (as horrible as it was) was all for nothing.,,If the game ended with ellie waking up and the whole thing being a dream, it would have been a better game. That's how awful this steaming pile of garbage is. Stay away from this game if you wish to hold good memories of LOU1.,,i actually want a refund. i'm embarrassed for naughty dog. i will NEVER buy anything n.druckman directs ever again. holy crap, what a waste of a weekend.
4254) This game is the most worst game all of the games my played, waste my money and time.
4255) Sorry, this game is just not fun. Clunky gameplay and **** story. Don't buy it.
4256) This game, in terms of the story, is Devil May Cry 2 levels of bad. Completely wastes what was a great story in the first game.
4257) I'm so tired of these woke writer's that are trying to appeal to an audience that is never going to play their game, this just leaves the people who will actually play their game feeling left behind. This wokeness will eventually  lead to the downfall of the once great game studio Naughty Dog, just as it has happened to so many studios before them.
4258) Unbelievable how out of touch the critics are. This game is a complete failure to live up to the first game. It had its moments... it had a touch of emotion at the start but the whole thing feeling like a stupid lecture about: violence = bad at the expense of our favorite characters dying was not appreciated. You can tell the critics voted it up based on the idiotic politics of the game not the quality. Garbage game will not live up to the hype that was behind it. Waste of 60 quid in my opinion probably wouldn't have played more than an hour or 2 if i had it for free. Mostly forced myself to go through it. Moral of this story for me was never pre-order a game.
4259) Horribly written storyline and characters development, gameplay-wise is as old as my grandma's socks.  At a point, it made me just feel sad and sick and snap the discs.
4260) If you are a fan of TLOU, DO NOT PLAY this game. It ruins the characters built in part 1.
4261) This is a huge disappointment !! God !!!! they just ruined everything beautiful about this game !!
4262) Stop putting Politics and SJW crap in our favorite games, it's pathetic. Naughty Dog has lost a potential customer because they have an agenda to push on everyone, "It's time to STOP!!!"
4263) **** this game.,This review must be 75 characters long so, the game looks good.
4264) Politics not a game. Dont play it. They want to force lgbF  agenda to kids.
4265) **** you, you just ruined my beloved game and characters. **** **** **** ****
4266) The story basically kills the main charachter of the first game, makes us play like Abby, and we dont even get to **** kill Abby for killing Joel. Litterly a DUMBSTER FIRE OF A GAME
4267) Why kill Joel? In the old game he will trust nobody now in this he went to a place full of strangers. And some reviews are getting deleted this is just pure evil
4268) Because of the sabotage of the game, after the story was wonderful in the first part, it has now become dirty because of homosexuality
4269) Extremely poor story. A ton of events feel extremely forced, and the amount of sjw propaganda being forced down your throat is way too vast. In the end, the main goal you were working towards, revenge, is being thrown away in a garbage bin after the main "villain?" of the story gets to go after killing a ton of your friends, cutting of 2 of your fingers, torturing and killing the most beloved character of the game and doing more than that! Not to mention, the main villain of the story is the one who gets the best ending! A joke of a game, do not buy, do not play, do not watch. Utter garbage. The main lesson we all should have learnt is: "be careful what you wish for". We wanted a last of us 2, we got this thing instead.
4270) Terrible game, couldn't even play my guitar at the end of it, definitely wouldn't recommend buying for yourself
4271) DO NOT BUY THIS PEACE OF **** **** aspect of the story that tlou 1 made tlou2 throws it out of the window.Joel dies in the first 2 hours for no **** reason and the whole story is about Ellie trying to track down Abby the **** who killed Joel and at the end Ellie doesnt even kill her.Also SJW propaganda being shoved down my **** throat by Arnita **** is not something i like in videogames.But what about the multiplayer?Non existent they are going to add it later even though they had 7 **** YEARS for the game.Also there are ZERO INNOVATIONS gameplay wise.TL;DR the game is **** don't buy it
4272) it makes me very very very disappointed.,i hate this bad story, it waste my time.
4273) I hate the fact I have to write this after being a fan of the first game. But the writing was so lazy and poorly executed that the story just was flat. I wish I would have saved the money.
4274) Terrível, believe me, i didnt bellieved at first, but, them i played and just sucks
4275) Terrible game. Developers should start listening to the player base, because no one asked for this type of game.
4276) The score gap between actual gamers and the fun police says it all. Anti-fun trash from boring people trying to make games more about current politics than fun and fantasy, praised by an industry of "game journalists" flooded by non-gamer humanities degree failures who don't realize they're just entertainment product reviewers who are only supposed to be appraising how much fun actual gamers will have with the game.,When "game journalists" (failed art reviewer wannabes) give unanimous perfect scores for political reasons, you can pretty much throw the game in the trash. It's the tedious political "art" that "game journalists" would rather be reviewing than games, since they aren't gamers and don't know how to do their jobs and review an entertainment product for the intended audience.,Sony's home office needs to go back to Japan and stop listening to California and political fart sniffer "game journalists" who refuse to realize they're just product reviewers.
4277) LGBT SWJ **** Mass product for degenerative modern multi culture society. Play as a man-looking teenager girl with tattoos is a bull****. Lots of feminists there. Goodbye last of us.
4278) I waited 7 years for this???? such a garbage story I hate neil druckmann ughh
4279) In my opinion second part of the game was, really awful. But when I saw a second part I was terrified.
4280) Not much to say as I give up with Naughty Dogg. There are so many plot holes it just doesn't make sense. I'll name two; Joel goes from not trusting anyone in LOU1 to open arms and trusting a random girl named Abby to go visit her friends... yeah right. Another is that in the first game, Joel killed nearly every firefly in that hospital, somehow the leftover few soldiers just knew the man that killed everyone was Joel and told everyone? Cut me some slack.,The story could've been way better if they went with something like Abby's group took over Joel's safe area, killed nearly everyone but Joel, his brother and Ellie. Joel's brothers wife or whatever got killed and that's the revenge to take back what is yours and seek revenge for killing all your friends... Something like TWD, Negan vs Rick's team.
4281) Nonsense narrative and a total disregard for beloved characters,This is a political agenda statement.,My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined.,Like kasai16 said : I wasn’t plan to leave a review until I saw someone gives a 10/10 review says this is the future of the gaming.
4282) when will they understated to stop spreading their poison everywhere. we are really sick of this.
4283) 7 years for this s#it, lol gfys LGBT people. paid snowflakes critics will not change anything. #AllLivesMater
4284) Neil Druckmann is a dumbass. The story of this game is extremely terrible. He has ruined such a great IP.
4285) Mediocre zombie game at its best. One thing that you have to note is that instead of making the game a game; a proper one, they are more interested in shoving their hidden agenda for a certain type of group to the mass public. I believe most of us are getting tired of this.
4286) Very disappointed on the final part of the story, i hope that it will be fixed in a future.
4287) Trash Game Story is garbage . huge disappointment  graphics don't mean much.
4288) The first game was a masterpiece, the second is total garbage! It has better graphics which is expected and gameplay looks almost the same. Main issue is the story, they ruined the franchise. If I wanted a nonsense message I'd rather get it from a fortune cookie.
4289) The series merged, Joel killed because of a **** feminist. We will remember you Joel.
4290) So I played the first one many years ago and was thoroughly impressed. Fell in love with the characters in the story... The story was everything, one of the best.,I don't know how this made it past the investors.. an entire AAA title budget was burned for a statement piece. I purposely stayed away from the leaks and reviews. Upon the preload finishing I was shocked.. this will be the first game I don't finish. Asking the a refund on the PS Store.,Skip this game.
4291) Story I am so disappointed what they did. Such a shame for all gamers who waited 7 years ........
4292) This is not The Last of Us. It is “How Ellie’s doing” spin-off. Cheap drama.
4293) Did not live to the hype that the audience were given and the story isn't what we expect from a game made by Naughty Dog.
4294) Part one is so much better , i was waiting for it 3 years  for me i will replay part one and imagine it is part 2
4295) Politcal propaganda. But it's their strategy, it's the same with television, they hook people in the first game/season and start the political propaganda in the next chapters, what a shame, get ****
4296) Big yikes from me lads. Not worth anywhere near the price, story is bad, practically no gameplay. I would go watch a movie instead.
4297) Not good enough, I don't know why all of the reviews were almost 10,It's normal game and doesn't deserve to be 10
4298) Jesus, man. This was one of the most hyped up games of the last several years and it comes out like this. As one could easily assess, a majority of the hate comes from the very questionable plot choices and the shift in tone from the original game. I am unsure what the developers were going for when writing this thing. Let me try and mention some points that haven't been said already.,,One argument I have read is that it was completely contradictory for Joel to say his real name to Abby's group based on how careful he was in the first game. However, I still believe that he would have been screwed regardless since there was a good chance that Abby would've brutally tortured Joel and Tommy for information. She only let Ellie go free because she got her target, but if Joel  did not reveal his name, there is a good chance that all three of them (Joel, Tommy, and Ellie) would've been killed for risk of warning the settlement. However, that still doesn't excuse the dog crap storyline.,,Secondly, the people who are hating on this game for its political agendas are completely justified. Look, I have no issue with LGBT characters in media, but man they really shove it down your throat in this one. This is the equivalent of that one white kid in social media that won't stop spamming Black Lives Matter. I have the right to be uncomfortable by what I see on my tv screen. Looking at Abby's ripped physique is not only unsettling, but also unrealistic. It started to feel like I was playing a porn parody instead of a game. All I'm saying is that developers need to think about the demographics of they're audience. For videogames, it's most likely gonna be straight males. And men don't want buff women and lesbian antics, they want Joel.,,In the end, without a quality story, TLOU2 isn't enjoyable to play. The game is nothing but a hollow husk of its predecessor. Druckmann himself said the game wasn't supposed be fun. Instead he used the word "engaging" to describe it. So i guess I'll "engage" in the fact that Cyberpunk 2077 now has a good chance of getting Game of the Year.
4299) this game is the worst with a dumb story and the gameplay is repetitive and full with politics
4300) game full of trash.  first, it surprises a player of a fantastic level with graphics and elaboration of locations.  Anita sarkeesian (crap woMAN) turned the game a bunch of sjw freaks.  I want to burp from the plot.  the beloved character was brutally hammered with a stick, with a gender fluid with a pigtail.  I delete this tolleristic garbage and wish the game to fail!,Sorry for my mistakes.  I still speak English badly
4301) I wish I could‘ve given it a -100000. you messed up something, which could‘ve been something great. The community is so disappointed, that you should apologize for this shhhhh you released. I‘ll give you a 1 for the graphics though.
4302) Sadly, this game deserve no more than 0.  proof that graphics don't mean much.
4303) such a shame naughty dog , you used to have people who knows  how to tell a good story.,,but for TLOU2 , you totally messed up
4304) They ruined a masterpiece ... I recommend everyone to play the first the last of us and that's enough because this chapter ruins everything
4305) Wtf is this. This is a truly disgusting game. How can you have us not play as Ellie, kill Joel in a stupid way, and have disgusting sex scenes. You should be embarrassed.
4306) Because I liked Joel very much. The story is the most important thing,#JoelLivesMatter
4307) The Last of Us Part 1 was an amazing experience that showed the father-daughter relationship between Joel and Ellie in a bleak world with little to no hope; however, part 2 is a cluster f** of **** storytelling. Instead of writing another good story that players can connect with, ND decided to follow the mob and create a propaganda-based game to push an agenda. Even though the graphics and game play were about the same as the first game, the lack of decent storytelling destroyed what could have been another awesome experience.
4308) Gaming is connected to specific agendas let sony next time learn the lesson gaming is just to entertain
4309) I'm so sad I waste my money buying this game I thought it well be the same as part 1 but no part 2 was too different are they trolling us? i feel like the game made only for LGBT people
4310) Can't believe that for once I didn't want to belive the internet Trolls, just FOR ONCE I did not pay attention to them and every single one of them was right about this game, this a travesty!
4311) Worst ps exclusive, I can't believe how can someone ruin the heck out of a masterpiece that was the first game.,The graphics are amazing, the gamplay is "meh" but the story is absolute garbage
4312) Worse story of the year. Worse story of the year. Worse story of the year. Worse story of the year. Worse story of the year..
4313) Ideological tendencies. Not respecting plurality of values and opinions. Left-wing ideologies will the game reputation
4314) While the environments look nice, that is literally the only good thing I can say about this unfortunately. Everything else about this game is absolute garbage and is a slap in the face to the first Last of Us and its many fans.
4315) sad, this is the perfect example of how to destroy an amazing history and one of the best games of all time.,The worst end you can expect.
4316) I shouldn't have bought it... Very sad. A great disrespect with fans... I don't have words for it.
4317) i am a massive fan of naughty dog Uncharted 4 is my favorite game. even with this bias towards naughty dog i can firmly say this is one of the worst games i have played in recent memory, boring and annoying combat writing and plot written by 13 year old writing fan fics on wattpad, and scenes like "bigot sandwiches" that made me wanna smash my head through a wall. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. DO NOT SUPPORT THIS GARBAGE I BOUGHT THIS GAME I SPENT $80 ON THIS GARBAGE AND I CAN'T REFUND IT, this isn't a review bomb either this game just sucks ass. i have played better games with more compelling and interesting stories on roblox.
4318) The Last of Us Part II is an extremely progressive game in which you take on the role of a trans-woman, who was born to a white-washed character from The Last of Us. It is your very progressive objective to murder an evil white bigot man and go about beating, shooting, and slitting the throats of countless women on your mission to hunt down and kill a young lesbian couple and their unborn child.,,This epic quest of slaughter is presented to you in HD with the most fantastically average graphics so that you can watch your strong independent victims shudder in a pool of blood as they expel their last breath from their mangled and minced face beneath the heel of your boot.,,In terms of audio, this game is a marvel to behold. You get to develop PTSD as you hear the screams, the whistles, and the gurgling of every single strong and independent enemy you shoot, stab, pummel and cut.,,The gameplay is like nothing else on the market right now. With enemy that instantly lock onto you after their vegan powered third eye senses you from a mile away while looking in the complete opposite direction. It adds to the suspense and makes the game so challenging that Naughty Dog had to create an entire menu section to allow you to complete the game if you are finding it too hard.,,Not sold? It’s truly a masterpiece, 10/10 and you have a tidal wave of not paid for, completely honest and non-nepotist “critics” that do this for a living!
4319) It breaks my heart to write this, but I really did not expect such a poor story after all these years of waiting
4320) A very weak final point in the life cycle of the current generation from sony.  Critics' ratings show how meekly publications follow the current political agenda.
4321) **** game,No story to be proud of nothing new in game play. The game lost the characters deep meaning
4322) really Sucks :(,The first game was so **** awesome.... But this.... This Is ****
4323) Forced to follow and be followed by a cast of unlikable and uncompelling characters. I felt more of a connection with the horse in the game than the supposed romantic interest. Overall, I don't think I've ever been more frustrated by the decisions of dev studio before. A real let down of a story.
4324) **Contains Spoilers**,There's a great quote by film maker, David Lynch, as to whether any of his movies give a message to  his audience, and he responded, 'If I wanted to give a message, I'd send a telegram".,,Herein lies the problem with 'The Last Of Us 2'. Rather than follow a cohesive narrative, built upon the deep characterisation and story arc which TLOU1 had, TLOU2 is more of a vehicle for 'in your face' virtue signalling, identity and gender politics - at the sacrifice of story and your knowledge of the characters and their previous actions.,,Fans were baited-and-switched with promotional videos, showing Joel saying various lines and aged to portray he was taking a bigger part of the role.   Sadly, in today's climate for a particular type of lead character - he's sacrificed on the 'stunning and brave' altar early in the game.,,The writing and characterisation of the Joel and Ellie flashbacks feel wooden and flat:  I recognised the 3d models and voices, but their interactions and conversations were alien to me and one-dimensional.,,The game includes a transgender bed scene which is so out of place and 'forced' (to coin a phrase into the story - it's almost as if Druckman included it solely for virtue points over it having some progression of story and character.,,You then play as Abby for the rest of the story and there was not enough there to make me feel immersed in this character.  The ending was a grind and will leave players unsatified and cheated .,,Save your money, play the first game.
4325) If you had told me back when this game first got announced that we'd get a garbage story like this, I would've thought you were lying and would be pissed you would even say something like that.,,I use to think that Neil Druckmann was an actual good writer/director considering he headed TLOU and Uncharted 4, but I'm coming to realize how much he rode on the coattails of Amy Hennig and all other veterans who left after Uncharted 4. It was actually they who had concreted stories down for both of those game before leaving (or being kicked out of in certain cases) Naughty Dog.,,With them gone and giving no more input into Naughty Dog's games, it's clear how far the company has fallen from grace. This was a company I grew up with. Crash, Jak & Daxter, Uncharted, TLOU... This new game is completely out of character for a once well respected studio. Even more so, it's come to light that under Neil's direction, crunch is brutal, expression of different beliefs than his have been aggressively denied, and the company tries to shut up those who leave the company through illegal NDAs.,,If this is what 7 years can produce under a one hit wonder and egocentric man like Neil Druckmann, I fear Naughty Dog will never be seen like how they use to; with respect and gratitude.,,In short, this was a horribly written game on the same level of teenage fan fiction, and I don't recommend it to anyone.
4326) Sad, it was such a let down.,Neil Druchmann has truly failed the industry and should be let go.
4327) Neil duckmann will burn in hell for this!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
4328) besides the fact that they put politics over a good story, the story takes a dump on the original game/characters and also the fans.
4329) 20+ hour interactive movie. Only redemption this game has is the graphics. We waited 8 years for this trash.
4330) You guys really messed this game up compare to the first this is literally trash what a let down
4331) No IGN nobody is downvoting this game because of homophobia, the game is as bad as the forced 10s from the critic reviews. If you want to express your political opinion there´s a place for that and games shouldn´t be corrupted by clearly paid and made up reviews just because it matches your beliefs. Games are meant to play and interact in a whole different universe, this one just feels like a heavy 25 hour movie. But well, same as happened with the movie "Joker" media prefers to push their political views instead of criticising objectively and constructivley as critics are more than happy to get a fat check just to write a dishonest review. This seemingly opposed opinions are the perfect example of how media wants you to think and how people actually think.
4332) It only takes one writer to destroy a franchise. Do you hate your audience?
4333) A Pointless kill of one of everyone's favorite characters...  (at least learn to do it properly with the BEST... Arthur Morgan) And force us to care and play with the killer half of the game.... And I can't even have my "ducking" revenge???,"Vai-ta póh caralho!!!"
4334) Was a terrible game. Completely different character designs and confusing storyline. Would not recommend
4335) A pretty bad sequel.,This game is one of the worst experiences I've played.
4336) The death of Joel marked the beginning of an insufferable roulette of badly written characters, starting with Ellie the bratty 20 yo and how she hates everything and everyone, basically making her even more immature than the Ellie from TLoU 1.,Neil Druckman obliterated this franchise just so he could subvert expectations.
4337) Visuals? Fantastic.,Graphic? Yes.,Story? One of the worst I've played through in decades (yes, including Duke nukem forever),The whole point of this series was the story and when your story is the weakest element you know you didn't do it right
4338) Hate it terrible, pretend it never happened last of one part 1 will never be the same they ruined it
4339) Does they use brain or foot when they crate the story line.,Anyone give me example of movie or game or cartoon or something that main character from EP1 die like a dog in EP2 and got positive reaction from audience.,That doesn't include Ellie the one that killed David because he try to rape her,But release murderer that kill lot of her beloved people and cut her finger. If you add the scene that she seen Jesus or Buddha that will make some sense lol.
4340) It really does blow my mind trying to figure out what they were thinking when they made this game. I spent so long anticipating this game, avoiding social media for spoilers just to play it, and I'm in shock right now. Not the good kind, not the kind they tried to instill in this ham-fisted disgrace of plot development. I'm angry I spent money on this. I love shock value in video games but this just feels like I paid someone to take a crap on me. Everything feels forced. Nothing feels natural, it's about as creative as a hand buzzer when it tries to make me care about anything in the game after the first 2 hours.
4341) Naughty Dog's talent for animation, motion capture, and set design are as present as ever, but the story is so unbelievably disrespectful to it's characters and the player's time that I wonder if Naughty Dog will ever make a good game again.
4342) The gameplay is nearly the exact same as the first game, the visuals are good, and the story is absolute garbage. It's the worst way I've wasted $60, and I bought Fallout 76 on launch.
4343) The story is complete trash. If you haven't read the leaks, you should because once you do you will not even want to get the game.
4344) So glad that i didn't spend 60$ on this poorly written forced agenda trash game. Thx twitch you have saved my wallet once again !
4345) A total spit in the face to the first game, introducing characters who are far from being relatable and totally disregarding and butchering the main characters everyone loves, the game may be stunning with good gameplay but if the story is at the level of a bad fan-fiction the whole experience is absolutelly  ruined.
4346) If i can give negative score, I would. Such a disrespectful and disgusting game.
4347) **** story. If you're going to make a game based on story, do it right like you know? What you did in the first game? Witcher 3? Halo? Go woke go broke. Don't bother making a third game trust me! Last of **** is done. Great graphics? Sure. Great voice acting? HELL YES. Great sounds? Yes! Outdated as **** mechanics? Yup. Copy and paste? Double yup. Story? Go **** yourself. Don't buy this damn game stay away. Make this company go down like they deserve.
4348) Hey i just wanted to remind you guys if you don't have your fingers, you may actually play a guitar using a pick!
4349) This game is a dysfunctional disaster. This is like to go to the Dyatlov Pass. The craziness of this story climaxed when 70% of the dev's crew preferred to give up the lifeboat, even facing a prelude of one of the worst economic recessions ever seen. The only triple A-thing of this game is the engine, maybe, and the graphic use of it (oh my god, almost). Druckmann steals every achievement made by Todd Howard, following the path traced by Mac Walters. I still hope Metacritic will not shredd, at least, our opinions.
4350) How can you kill a character that is so important! Disappointed. 7 years for nothing... Shame
4351) SJW Productions present...,In association with Soros Entertainment...,In how to convert a masterpiece into nasty propaganda...,SJW Productions present...,In association with Soros Entertainment...,In how to convert a masterpiece into nasty propaganda...,SJW Productions present...,In association with Soros Entertainment...,In how to convert a masterpiece into nasty propaganda...
4352) F*ck LGBTQ COMMUNITY. They are not human like us no no belive me they don’t
4353) No No NO!! This game is disgusting, from the videos I've seen and from legit reviews, i'm sorry but this should not exist.. NO NO NOno nono n o no no  no no no  no no no no no no  no no no no. Absolutely do not buy this **** don't help fund this nonsense.
4354) I don’t think this game was very fun. If it’s not fun, why bother. When a game pushes agendas onto other people it becomes less of a game, and more like the rest of filtered media.
4355) I love how well crafted the critics review are, you can see and feel the money dropping in their wallet from Naughty Dogs. Oh and the game sucks btw
4356) Gameplay is boring, not innovative. The plot is like a crappy TV show. Neil tries to teach players his opinion of revenge in a game but games are never tools of that. Game should be about different choices, for different people, not putting someone's opinion over others, by playing and raping players' emotion. I really don't know why critic review is so high.
4357) What a shame, was a great game, and now with this crappy new game, waste of money.
4358) They ruined the franchise! How can you mess up a story so bad?!? The only thing that would have made a game like this stand out is it's story, it's gameplay being quite generic and linear at best. I feel like they just spit on the legacy of the first game, which was a masterpiece!
4359) It is hard to explain my disappointment with the story. I am all for LGBT rights. I think the game is fine in its narrative for LGBT rights -- that's good -- there should have been that deeper connection with the characters as the last game. I also know it's hard to be better than the first game; but you had so many years to make this game! Plus, you had focus groups! I mean, come on.
4360) I mean was that really necessary? You took a very good story,character relation into the bin and put that story instead.Most of us did not play this game for graphics or any other just for the story and you wasted it.I don't care whether you want to give some ''messages''  or not,me and most people we just wanted to see that beautiful story to continue.Apart all of those things,it is even enough to say BAD for this game by killing Joel like that.Felt sorry just sorry
4361) Trash game. If you read garbage articles like on Forbes they will inform you that it is disliked because of LGBTQ issues. This is just false, the writing in the game is trash on its face. Having progressive issues doesn’t make your game good
4362) Absolutely disgusting trash. Parents DO NOT allow your children to have this twisted, demented Jewish porno propaganda
4363) Cons:,- Story and characters,- A large portion of the game is just you roaming empty places and picking up stuff - Boring flashbacks - Enemy AI - World/Level design   Pros:,- Decent gameplay,- Graphics,- Soundtrack
4364) I am writing this review because when people see the ratings they will know how bad this game is and will not waste their 80 fricking dollars. But seriously, u done **** up now naughty dog...
4365) how many  years im waiting this game and they disappointed me, graphic is good and game play like ps2 gameplay and the story is **** why did they did kill joel like this  WTF with naughty dog,
4366) This game is actual trash, do not believe the critics that say that this 5hit is 10/10, like why tf would you lie to the consumers?! Why tf do you think this is okay? I WAITED 7 YEARS FOR THIS TRASH!!
4367) Awful. Such a massive disappointment in every single way. The characters, stories and subplots, even the sex scene game me cancer.
4368) **** writing, stupid story. WTF can I say? Waited 7 years for a piece of ****
4369) I have not seen a more stupid plot in games for a long time, how did you come up with this?,And, I hope after such a spit in the face like this game, Naughty Dog will lose all fans.
4370) I fell in love with the main characters of the first part.  in the second part, they simply defiled everything that I loved and spat in my soul.
4371) The story in this game was absolutely awful. Filled with plot holes and forced moments. Terrible ending to Joel's story.
4372) Boring videogame if you don't like history, mechanics and AI exactly the same as the first part of 2013
4373) This is first time in 5 years i have felt the need to review a game, and it needs to be really bad before i do that. This game is bad as hell, everything is wrong with it (story, the characters etc.. ) the only thing that is right, is the graphics,,Sorry for bad english :)
4374) I wasn't sure is this game worth the money, so i went to my friend to take his copy for a day. Oh my **** god, wasting 2 dollars to pay him for one day of having game was the worst choice of my life. Don't buy it, if you wanna see the story, watch it, game can be okay at start, but after some time you will not **** understand why characters decide to do what they do.
4375) Killing Joel and saving Abby was absolutely stupid. You want to make Joel do something so blatantly out of character to get killed, fine, but at least have SOME kind of payoff for it. And the sex scene? GROSS. This developer literally called Halo "sexualized" because of Cortana's (a blue computer lasy) figure,  then they digitally reduced the breast size of their diverse female cast because somehow that is too much, but then they have a SEX SCENE. Forget this game. They Game of Thrones'd this game.
4376) So All the horrible leaks were true after all, And the ending to this game is straight weak/garbage and doesn't make any sense
4377) this game should go for a nomination of the worst video game in game industry.
4378) Big disappointment compared to the first one. I wouldn’t recommend this game anyone.
4379) Awful plot combined with terrible and unlikable characters. Words can't describe how poorly written this second game is compared to the first one. Unworthy of it's predecessor. All those shiny graphics flushed down the toilet because of a forced SJW agenda.
4380) Hahaha gay this game is for LGBT,and both our protagonist is dead at least im not buying just watching it on youtube. Just Play ff7 remake or persona 5 royal masterpiece.
4381) The 2nd WORST GAME of ALL TIME. This **** drivel is the most disappointing thing since MASS ERECT 3. Basically this game is like if the medic from Ground Zeroes killed Big Boss. A complete travesty.,,What a disgrace. I can't believe the lengths they went to ruin a simple genuinely touching and heartwarming father/daughter story like TLOU. You know, Joel, the beloved main character from TLOU... all those scenes from the trailers are flashbacks. Also... Oh yeah. He's DEAD.,,Just disgusting, appalling treatment and blatant abuse of the fanbase's trust. This company should be **** ASHAMED.,,Especially sicking this **** on people during this horrible unprecedented pandemic... way to just make your fans feel hopeless. And for FALSE ADVERTISING and blatantly abusing the copyright system to cover their tracks. Total bait and switch. This feels like a personal attack on everyone who loved the 1st game. A game made terrible human beings, not to mention slave labor harvested. Leaks 100% true.,,I got so depressed after watching the scene where Joel get murdered by the equivalent of a **** goomba I had to stop playing for 3 hrs. It's SO BAD. It's not even on the same level as TLOU storywise. It's not so much the fact he died, it's HOW AND WHY. Senseless. What a waste of a character.,,Both RDR games showed us how to properly kill off a main protagonist, and those deaths are poignant, meaningful, and actually done WELL. This was disrespectful to Joel's character and the fans as far as I'm concerned.,,I can understand killing off your protagonist if it's done in service of the story, but I can't condone this in the manner in which it happened was just plain distasteful. This was clearly done on purpose for shock value to hurt the fans, nothing more. There's nothing deep or profound about **** like this. Do they think this portrayal makes women, gays or any of the people they're trying to pander to look good? Size of the ocean, depth of a puddle.,,This game is pure hatred towards fans who enjoyed TLOU. It feels VERY personal and I'm disgusted with ND atm. WHAT IS THIS? WHO IS THIS FOR?! I HATE this game. This is just a bunch of toxic hate mongering bull**** by so-called "oppressed" social justice weirdos.,,TLOU was so sacred, so special. I'll just have to ignore it and pretend this ****ty sequel doesn't exist since the original was a perfect self-contained story. As a FORMER ND fan for over a decade, I feel betrayed.
4382) *Honestly this game is not for fans of the relationship between Joel and Ellie,* this game totally destroys that and it changed it into something unrecognizable for The Last Of Us,* Game play and Graphics are normal, but story is not worth the seven years wait.*
4383) Why's he said it won't take a vacation to be able for you guys are you guys want me out to get the same way I do it today at least I don't want you in a few hours of playing the same thing as you can come over on your house and take him to the game
4384) Terrible sequel game ruined by a dumb agenda. This is not what fans of the first game wanted to see as a sequel. This do many moments in this game just didn't make sense to happen and felt forced just to push some dumb agenda narrative which ruined this game.
4385) This game is as the image of his community : Garbage tier.,Better to be a SJW to make money than create a real good game with own personnality.
4386) "Ngl I liked the abby section of the game" is something i'll never say. But hey the graphics are good so this should be 10/10
4387) Imagine a Mario game where Bowser tries to kidnap the princess, fails, escapes, and then Mario spends the whole game chasing Bowser just so he can teach him a lesson.  The Last of Us 2 has pretty much the same feel.  What an annoying story, just pretty ridiculous.  Feels more like a really violent soap opera than just good vs evil.    Like other reviewers have said, it really is mostly about revenge.  Call me old-fashioned, but I've always been more a fan of games with an existential threat as the focal point.
4388) Probably one of the worst stories ever told in any medium, Neil Drukmans focus is to teach the audience to think a certain way instead of entertain.  Injecting your political views into entertainment is certainly allowed and essential in some aspects but the way Neil crafts this story feels like a 14 year old Antifa members fan fiction. Despite the forced political agenda, the writing and handling of the characters is laughable. Killing off one of the main characters from the first game in the first two hours without  concrete justification is lazy writing.  Neil will never listen to the negative reviews  because he thinks to himself "These bigoted sandwiches  just don't understand my game"  Mainstream liberal games media will  review this game with high praise but start to think for yourself. Do not buy this game. It only helps Niels huge emasculated head grow into What it is today.
4389) FFS Neil,  SMH.  Huge fan...and tons of enjoyment lost in the first few hours....what are you thinking ND?
4390) How do I even begin... This game is right up there as one of the worst disappointments in gaming history. I cannot fathom how they can utterly destroy the series along with its main characters in the first 2 hours of a game.,We waited 7 years for this trash, and we are welcome with Joel getting killed off by the very **** **** he saved just moments earlier. Not only that, we are FORCED to play as this character and actually sympathize with her. God knows nobody wants nothing to do with no **** Abby and nobody **** cares about her backstory - not when she downright murdered Joel with a golf club right in front of Ellie. The ending is trash and antithetical. We get no closure. No respect for Joel, or the first game. The gameplay and graphics are half decent but its all for nothing when you've got a **** of a 'story' to 'play' for.,Bye Naughty Dog. This will be the last time I will ever play your game. Neil Druckmann, your day of reckoning will come.
4391) The dreadful writing, I can't believe it is the LAST OF US.,I don't want to play it again, it's waste of time.,Deceptive advertising, awful story.
4392) This game is literally the worst sequel and the worst game ever made. Naughty Dog has completely disregarded the first game's story and has given us fans and players an absolutely insulting game.
4393) propaganda and bad story... They did their best to hate the Ellie. They tried to make Abby look cute.we don't care about graphics and mechanics! you trolled us.
4394) trash game. don't buy this, buy the previous one instead. because Joel will die beaten by a golf club and after that, you will play a character who kills Joel (with a golf club of course).
4395) Yeah, this is a perfect AAA game 2020. Bad story, a lot of plot holes, not interesting characters,  many dumb and illogical monents, but graphics are really good. And this **** lasts thirty hours.
4396) Such a disappointment. How can you go from one of the best games ever created to this?
4397) Sorry, but I do not like propaganda.  Eat this sh*'*t yourself. Stop do this, I want playing the game, not eat sh#++*t okay?
4398) Positives: game is stunningly beautiful, facial animations and expression are gorgeous.,This games predecessor is famous for it's story.,Negatives: The story is bland and characters are poorly developed. Their are too many invisible walls which in 2020 AAA feels limiting. To a certain extent This is ok because we know it's a story based game. But, that's why the story needs to be astounding. It's not,Also, you shouldn't kill off a main protagonist after 2 hours when fans are returning to game to experience Joel and Ellie Part 2.,Also, please stop labelling people bigots. There are real issues with this game.,Obviously this is not a 95% game.,The disparity between Critic Reviews and User Reviews is a form of corruption in itself.,Once again, this is obviously not a 95% game so, why are the Critics lying.
4399) We cant have strong Male characters they all have to be dumb so we prop up the female characters. That's lazy story telling lazy writing. You kill off a beloved character in the most unsatisfying way. Then have ellie chase down the character just in the end to not kill her. Neil druckman ruined this game after 7 years this is what we get.
4400) (Skip to bottom for final assessment)... This review is in progress.... I thought the review bombing was out if hand, and wanted to give it a real chance. Tried my best to avoid spoilers, and went in with an "open mind."... this is all I have to say right now.... Joel is my favorite video game character of all time. My dogs were named after Joel and Ellie.... and after what I just watched happen... I don't even want to finish the game. 3/10 so far.,Update: I've played a bit more, and the game is solid. Not much story wise, other than Dina taking jabs at killing "bad guys." There was a touching guitar moment,  but nothing solid story wise. Gameplay and setting are top notch though. Up to 4/10.,Update: Joel moments are well done, but also highlight what could've been.  Up to 5/10.,Update: Playing as Aaby is fun...is. 6/10,Update: Just finished the game. My final score is an 8/10. I hated the story, the combat drags a bit, but the story ending wasn't bad. It was just depressing and not what I wanted.  .That being said, I will never pick the game up again, and it was so manipulative that I won't buy another PS4 title and I'm trading in my PS4. I'll be buying a Nintendo Switch and play actual games with the intent to have fun. Incredibly depressing experience that killed my love for the medium.  So they did a good job I guess, if I feel that strongly.,Updated to 0 for bs.
4401) This is my 5th time trying to write a review but the site keeps saying "Error". fishy.,The game is a testament graphics are the least important feature in a game. Because aside of that, everything is terrible, and just woke propaganda. AVOID this game. Horrible in every way
4402) People that do not understand why this game actually forces an agenda on the player, probably dont know how subtle they operate and how its transmitted.,In no game you will find it obviously stated, but it will be portraied with an underlying tone, so that the user might get used to it.,Showing off transgender/bisexual and so on is not wrong or anything (after all we are all humans with different tastes and intrests), but the way they are presented plays a big role on why this leaves a bad taste.,It feels forced, it doesent feel natural. If you are trans/bisexual, so be it, but do not make a big deal out of it, as if its superior or any more noteworthy than a straight guy/girl.,Actually you do not even have to mention it. It is absolutly meaningless for any sane person anyway, because it doesent mean anything anyway.,,With that said, lets begin and talk about whats really really problematic in this game.,Its the inconsistancy of the characters. The characters do not behave the way from what we have learned about them in the first game. This is why the user gets the idea that the story is forced.,When a story is forced and you sacrifice any logical character development for it (just to make a point), its only right to see a specific motive behind it that far exceeds the game itself alone. It is then influenced heavily by the authors "own view" no matter what came before it.,Thats a death sentence for any book, story or whatever.,,The game itself plays like any other Naughty Dog that came before it. Many cutscenes, areas with a narrow path, heavily story driven. Unfortunatly the story is nothing worthwhile and i do not recommend it.
4403) game for lgbt and femgirl.,#1 Best PS4 Game of 2020,#1 Most Discussed PS4 Game of 2020,#2 Most Shared PS4 Game of 2020,lul
4404) Waited 7 years to This game..,Lost my God da#$ money.,I'm Just disapointed, waitting now for gow5
4405) Absolutely terrible. The story is probably one of the worst in history.,Don't waste your money on this.,Get woke, go broke.
4406) Such a bummer considering it's a follow up to one of the greatest stories ever written
4407) The game is monotonous and boring I do not recommend it to anyone because it is a waste of money when someone buys this game it is best to throw it into a trash can and spit it the game is also an LGGT propanganda and this is mainly the plot..
4408) Yeah the graphics are great but the story is just Terrible, they treated the characters you love like dogs. The new characters are so uninteresting, Now you are controlling some kind of girl dude
4409) HONEST REVIEW FROM A DIEHARD TLOU FAN,The last of us 2 was a highly anticipated sequel that honestly we all now wish shouldn’t even have existed. What Neil Druckmann and naughty dog have done under the influence of Anita Sarkeesian is downright disrespectful and a spit In the face of the many loyal fans that have come to love the original. The original was loved due to its originality and beautifully crafted and unfolding narrative, and right from the beginning we were hooked and at the end we were left speechless and were in awe.,,The last of us part 2 has an improvement in gameplay and difficulty settings and that’s where it all unfortunately abruptly comes to a curtain close. This story is just the root cause of depression, and if you suffer from mental issues please stay away. Various trailers of the game depicted beloved Joel and Ellie being a pivotal part of this game, but that obviously was naughty dog playing on our emotions with a character called Abby lurking in the shadows. Bringing in forceful woke political ideologies such as LGBTQ+, feminism into a game set in a post apocalyptic world just makes absolutely no sense, even if the game is trying to be bold, accepting  and forward moving. In a game where surviving and reproducing is the whole point, this simply just doesn’t work, specially in a beloved franchise like this. The game is a tedious, upsetting, draining 26 hour revenge quest fuelled by hate and violence in which the protagonist just lets Abby the antagonist go away freely and unharmed. That’s like batman killing hundreds of people getting to the antagonist and simply letting the person who killed his parents go away unscathed. GET IN THE BIN!,I personally will never buy a Neil Druckman game again and I honestly hope the fanboys wake up and do the same instead of giving this disrespectful and insulting company your hard earned money. They just aren’t the same anymore. Cyberpunk 2077 for GOTY!,Thanks for reading and wish you all the best!
4410) LGBT trash,LGBT trash,LGBT trash,LGBT trash,10  10 hairy armpits,10  10 hairy armpits,10  10 hairy armpits,10  10 hairy armpits,10  10 hairy armpits,F u c  k development
4411) Did you make it for 7 years to make a **** game like this? Thanks to you guys, my 7 year time is meaningless. By all means, players who want to purchase this game must see the reviews of users. And Naughty Dog, if you're going to insult the previous game like this, don't release a sequel. -Korean user talks to Naughty Dog-
4412) What a bad story, waiting 7 years for this **** was the worst **** I've ever done, refund, here we go
4413) they ruined it for us..RIP good old memories of last of us..i'm done with this game..the story is crap..i cant handle this
4414) The last of us is a story for me. You can't do that to us. It is a ridiculous start. It ruined everything.
4415) Disappointing story it is just poor what they came up within the years nothing makes sense really disappointing don't buy the game if you are loving the characters of last of us part one. Just wondering how much this big companies got paid to write a good review. SAD
4416) Worst story, gameplay looks amazing but the story is trash, fire Neil Druckman. 0/10
4417) Finished the game. Completely and utterly terrible. This is a story driven game, if you played the 1st game and loved these characters and their journey, do not buy or play this game.,,This game completely bastardized everything you loved about the the original game when it comes to the story and characters.,,The game was falsely advertised, you are not getting what you awaited 7 years for which is another game which follows and respects your two beloved protagonists.,,I appreciate everything the developers have done into making the game look and sound phenomenal but the story is so god damn disappointing that I must overlook and give a zero. My most anticipated game turned into the worst experience I've had in gaming in my 24 years on this earth,  7 years waiting, 7 YEARS!... for this!!!????
4418) We will add a little **** to the game, because it is fashionable and not anyone needs. Lust of minority.
4419) I wanted to love this just like the incredible first one, but it's just violence porn. Had to quit an hour into the game, the devs have mental problems.
4420) Bad game. It's not last of us!,Goty? Don't even think about it! okay?,I won't give it to you!
4421) This game is TRANSFOBIC, it was made to make heteros hate and despise transfolk, do not watch or play this game.
4422) Extremely disappointing. The game is just some propaganda with pretty graphics. Awful story with characters turning worse and worse. I especially hate the character of Abby.
4423) There were good points in the game which i loved, flash backs with ellie and joel. But it was too much of a disrespect to the player to let you go through such **** Ruining the beloved characters, that you will wish that this was all a **** dream and never happened.
4424) This is a perfect example about how political correctness ruins gaming industry.
4425) When you get woke you know, that you're gonna go broke. Simple truth. Because the silent majority is fed up with the minority stuffing up their propaganda down our throats.
4426) I finished the game yesterday. Just leave it here:,Joel Last of Us 1: “I struggled for a long time with surviving. And no matter what, you keep finding something to fight for.”,Joel Last of Us 2: “Howdy stranger!! My names Joel! This is my brother, Tommy, who used to be the leader of the Fireflies! I killed the Fireflies and am in hiding, my town is just down the road. Mighty big guns y’all got, how come you’re all looking at me weird and locking the door? ‘Sounds like you heard about me’ ya, know Joel that’s my name!”,,Drakman **** genius...)))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))
4427) One of the worst things in existence, i can't even call this a game, because is not a game, is an activism political piece/walking simulator full of weird and awkward interactions and sex scenes as well, since when is Sony Interactive Entertainment all of a sudden ok with those? while censoring other games for even less, this is disgusting, The story is non existent as well, the characters are bad, the gameplay is below average and of course the cherry on top, the killing of the main characters from the previous game for no reason was just awful! -100/10
4428) Spoilers,The positive reviewers like to act like they are making good points when arguing why Joel was meant to die. No one disagrees Joel deserved to die, he was never established as a morally good character and he made a selfish decision which condemned the human race. No one is angry Joel died we are angry about how he died. My take on this would be much different if we were introduced to Abby long before she brutally murders Joel. They set them self up with an insurmountable task of creating empathy for Abby. And they didn't even try, we got a ten minute scene where she saves a Zebra with her father then they reveal Abby is the person who convinced them Ellie should be murdered to save humanity. If the writers are trying to make the player empathize with Abby why would they establish her as the one who condemned Ellie which inevitably led to Joel killing her father? Later on in the story we are introduced to Lev who saves Abbys life.  This prompts Abby to betray the wolves to save Lev. This decision of Abbys feels like a fruitless attempt by the writers to establish Abby as a morally good character in order to gain empathy from the audience. They're trying to define Abby as selfless contrary to her making numerous selfish decisions. It's hard to say anything for certain about Abby's character because every other decision is conflicting. One moment she is selfless the next she is selfish. When it comes to condemning Ellie her morals are for the good of the many but when it comes to saving Lev her morals are for the good of the few. She gets very angry when she finds out Ellie has killed her friends yet she's already betrayed these friends and was prepared to leave these friends behind to help Lev. The story overall is nonsensical and revolves around and characters literally abandoning and losing everything in a fruitless quest for revenge. Both Abby and Ellie quite literally sacrificed everything over avenging the deaths of two people in a world where everyone has lost someone. Death and violence is around almost every corner of this world. Yet for whatever reason these two people are so special our characters travel thousands of miles killing hundreds to enact their revenge. Even after watching the bond which is formed between Joel and Ellie in the first game I have a hard time believing that Joel's death was enough to bring on this murderous rampage. Especially after Joel and Ellie’s rough relationship has been established.,This world isn't the same world we were put into in the first game. There is no hope in this world, there is only violence and sadness. The violence is so over the top that by the end of the game I was completely numb to it all. The game heavily relies on shock value that was brought about through overly violent and grotesque actions perpetrated towards beloved characters which was so overly used it left me feeling nothing when the game came to it's final conclusion and this mattered the most.  At no point were we given any sort of relief or loving character development which gave us respite from the sadness and violence of this world previously. In the first game Ellie provided 90% of this relief from the awful world we were witnessing. But she is now a shadow of her former self, despite spending her years safe and sheltered in a settlement with electricity she has completely lost the spark we saw in the first game. The conclusion of the game is hollow, hundreds die in this needless revenge plot and one singular person being saved who the player has established no empathy for is supposed to bring meaning to all the meaningless violence.,Jeremy Maillet
4429) Joel deserved better. I bought and played the games based on the reviews that were available before release. I found that these are lies! I will never trust them, Sony or naughty dog again. There is real corruption in gaming! This game is boring, the characters are hateful and don't respect the previous brilliant game. Great graphics and politics do not make a game. Do not buy.
4430) This game hates its own origin, Generation Z does looking for to be accepted, it is forcing us to be like them.
4431) I seriously can't think any worse way to destroy the story like they did, all just to give Abby more steroids from 2017 trailer to 2020 and replace Joel for an asian in one of the game points that was shown. In other words, mis-leading advertisement.
4432) This game sucks from the beginning ist not fun 2 play or anything i dont belive they trick usnso bad
4433) Congratulations, Naughtydog. You managed to release a monumental **** I'd like to get my money back but I guess I won't. I'm placing my copy on ebay, keeping my fingers crossed.
4434) Sorry but story sucks. I can’t feel what characters are experiencing and I share absolutely zero emotion with them.
4435) LGBT is **** LGBT is **** LGBT is **** LGBT is **** LGBT is **** LGBT is **** LGBT is **** LGBT is ****
4436) What have you done with Ellie?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
4437) No words can describe how bad it was.,Just why!! The first 27 minutes of the game they are acting as the world is normal playing in the snow playing guitar and of course a party and a kiss!!! As the first one in the first 27 minutes I couldn’t blink I was so afraid I will miss something if I blinked. Thanks for ruining a good memory and a good game konami did it before you and now you are following the same steps.
4438) I LOVED the first game, this installment was a spit in the face to anyone who cared about the story and characters previously established. The last 2/3s of this madness were the lowest low I've ever experienced in gaming. Whoever wrote this pointless torture porn needs mental health assistance, that was not ok.
4439) If I could give this piece of garbage lower than a 0 I would. It is a woke, feminist, "toxic male hating", kills of beloved characters, has pornographic scenes, I could go on and on. Parents, keep your kids away from this cesspool of a game.
4440) well, pure **** no coments about this trash game. How destroy a mitic franchise
4441) do not waste your money to buy this game...,Story 1/10 tresh,Game-play - 4/10,Graphics - 8/10,tresh tresh tresh tresh
4442) The best garbage in history,I hate to call it a game,The aversion of developers' previous works was overwhelming.
4443) Not worth your time. Gameplay feels okay I guess, other then that, garbage.
4444) Unfortunately story spoiled , what a shame, part 1 was my favorite but this truly terrible. Not worth the waitting.
4445) This game may look pretty in places, and have decent gameplay, but underneath that is an ugly story with horrible characters making bad decision after bad decision. Why would Joel give his name to complete strangers? Why is Abby's father the ONLY doctor capable of making a cure? Why doesn't Ellie kill Abby after Abby killed Joel? The whole game forgets one of the most important of the 6 story questions: Why? If you can't explain why someone would do something, then you fail at writing a story.
4446) **** story! Bad ending just wow so bad! One of the worst games ever made. You walk a lot without even encountering a single enemy pretty boring. But I just can’t get over the ending. What a disappointment.
4447) My mother walked in and saw a man getting pegged, thank you Sony. I’ve lost my PS4 since then due to living in a Christian household.
4448) Proof that if you polish a turd, its still a turd but shiny. Another cover based shooter with crap stealth sections
4449) The story is TRASH. 7 years wasted. Too bad because the gameplay and graphics are good, but the story and the fact that you have to play with a character you hate for half of the game.. And on top of that even the ending makes it so terrible, especially for the big fans who saw the story get butchered. I suggest not wasting 60$ on it.
4450) Good graphics and all but poor written story unlikeable new characters and also bad ending.Disappointment.
4451) Games story is a mess. Characters apparently got foolish since the last game and  it’s riddled plot holes, and plot convenience. Really sad to see considering story was the main thing everybody wanted.
4452) Bad Game a really Bad movie,the only good is the graphics,if i can see a Bad movie i can pay Netflix.
4453) This game should be wiped from existence! I can't believe they thought this kind of story direction was the way to go! Enjoy losing alot of your customers! Your game sucks naughty dog!
4454) horrible game this isn't canon to the last of us story in my opinion. Joel and Ellie deserve better.
4455) Bleak plot, not a revolutionary gameplay, too much feminism stuff and LGBT. It’s an apocalypse setting, people should recover population. Developers must stop putting their political views in their games and listen TO GAMERS not TWITTER.
4456) The worst end ever. Can't believe they made the game like that. I bet that all reviewers who reviewed with 10 received a great deal of money from Sony.
4457) All my feelings, build up, liking, story hook, character love, the last of us aroma and love of this game died when JOEL died!?. This is a Game that makes you feel freaking dead in a time when the entire world is already in a pandemic. What a pathetic story line. What were he devs thinking.! The entire Last of us fan base is ruined.!
4458) I just wanted the last of us not this, thanks for RUINING it, now I will never be able to complete this game not after how awful it turned to be
4459) What can I say? Spoiling everything is also a kind of talent. This is all very bad. No matter how beautiful the packaging is, the filling still smells of a known substance.
4460) Why make us play someone we hate for half the game it's absolutely ridiculous.
4461) NON SPOILER REVIEW. I spent money on this and played with an open mind with that said.....DO NOT BUY. The characters/storytelling/every other aspect of the game is not nearly what it boasts to be. If you are in any way a fan of the first game you will get deeply insulted and disgusted playing this. And it only gets progressively worse towards the end. The only thing this game excels in is graphics which is pretty much already expected.
4462) worst game ever made, the story is trash and the game play didn't changed at all. And there is so F*CKING much sjw **** don't buy!!!!!!
4463) This is not the Last of Us, a real disappointment of the decade, the desire to please spoiled the game that could have become a masterpiece, very sorry
4464) Bad Story that concentrate on social agendas instead of logical storytelling.
4465) Gameplay is ok, but the story is unbelievably bad. I did not enjoy this game.
4466) I enjoyed the Last Jedi, and even I find this story an absolute travesty. If Neil Druccman wants to do experiemental writing so much, then do it on his own new IP. Don’t messed up a concluded story everyone already known and loved
4467) Im so happy i didnt buy this abomination of a game and i definitely recommend u to not buy it too,just watch the playthroughs the gameplay is absolute ass so the game is “Story focused”but there is a tiny problem...its like the story tries to actively piss you off times after times again,not really in a meaningful way too just pissing you off for the sake of it an absolute abysmal game
4468) Worst game I've ever played. The story is interesting for sure, and it could've been great if it was executed properly (unlike Joel). Would be a decent B-movie, but as a game its awful and uninspired.
4469) This isn't really the last of us, Neill Druckman is just using the characters to force his political views onto the player. Joel is not used properly as a character, he's just a plot point. It feels like they are embarrassed by the original game characters so theg create a bunch of new ones that aren't nearly as interesting.,This just sad.
4470) Such a bad game. There is basically no “gameplay” at all, and it’s like watching a movie. At this point, Sony just needs to release TLOU as feature films instead of pairing the story with half-assed broken gameplay that’s easy to exploit.,They couldn’t even get the story right either, and it’s filled with SJW pandering. Ellie’s character development is non-existent, and her personal “revelations” are a complete joke. Not surprised people are returning this game or breaking the disc in half, it’s that bad
4471) f**** ugly Game, i really hate it, it's like a movie y no tiene sentido jugarlo
4472) Hulk. But why? There are other ways to build the game and the story. It was too much.
4473) One of the worst games I have ever played of all time, a horrible sequel to an amazing first game in the series, that should have never been a series in the first place. Out of everything they could have thought of, they thought of whatever abomination this is.
4474) This Game Is The Biggest Bad Trash Bag Instead Buy Bleach And Donate It To People Who Have Played The Game So They Can Wash There Eyes Out
4475) Extremely disappointing. I would not recommend anyone to buy this game. The story was absolute garbage
4476) Literally lied in almost every trailer, switching models and characters, then letting Abby kill Joel. In what world am I supposed to sympathize with that troll faced ogre.
4477) Jewish lesbians and tranny sex...nice game design bro. Why can't I shoot the star of david? Is there some kind of magic jewish armor that I can wear also to be permanently invincible?,I personally spoiled your trash game to ~400,000 people. ~10,000 of them also commented that they were never buying the game, ~25,000 said they were going to, but now they won't because of me. 25,000 x 60 = 1.5 mil you don't get anymore. Gonna cry?
4478) Clear political agenda affected the characters and story we know and love. Nuff else said
4479) The writing just sucks. Please stop making games just to please sjws. Gotta go im being chased by a gay trans bi no pickle apache helicopter with a golf cub.
4480) Nice work to the paid website and magazine reviews.,They don’t even mean a thing anymore...
4481) Thank you ND for spoiling a great franchise with your work money grab! The last of us didn’t need a sequel but as soon as the money started rolling in its fate was sealed.. Storyline is absolutely garbage 0/10,DONT LET THE PAID REVIEWS FOOL YOU!!
4482) The original game TLOU didn't have extraordinary gameplay, but what made it an amazing game was the setting and the storytelling.,,TLOU2 is the same as TLOU in terms of refine gameplay but nothing groundbreaking, so the only thing left is to see how the story unfolds from the original. Save yourself the trouble and money, just watch a stream or video of the storyline to understand the outrage it has caused.,,Naughty Dog tries to be shocking (not innovative) by killing the main character you come to know and are attached. Make you play as the killer to try and garner some sympathy votes. Of course they will think the review bombing has to do with hating LGBT, however it has nothing to do with that and more with the terrible storytelling about revenge where no one is the winner and nothing is resolved.,,Just imagine watching a TV show you enjoy and they replaced the main character after season 2 with a brand new face / character who you dont know and dislike (most likely), and they try to forced feed you something different. Thats not why you started to watch the show originally.,,It's a shame Naughty Dog won't learn from this mistake but kudos for being remembered for being controversial.
4483) Utter filth. I‘d rather watch Faces of Death on an VHS again, which I haven’t seen since my childhood and which still haunts me in my dreams.
4484) It is a total disaster. Naughty dog just arrogantly forces what they think is a good thing into the player's mouth, never mind that it tastes like **** to the player.
4485) Absolutely soul-crushingly disappointing. I feel like an idiot for allowing my expectations to run wild all these years only to be hit harder than Joel when that trans person beat the straight white male out of him.
4486) Neil **** Druckmann **** you!  This game is trash. Please save your money. if you had played Last of us 1 , don't buy.
4487) The gameplay is there, but the story is garbage When there's no good story what's the point of having good gameplay it's like delivering a pizza box without pizzas in it straight up.
4488) This game is junk the whole story arc is pointless now. I can't believe the huge drop in quality between the previous games which I loved. This one is just like everything else trying to make money on a brand without the good story telling.
4489) The positive "critics" are biased by money. The reality is the game has great graphics, but a bad narrative story wise. The compelling story of the first was trashed to fill a sjw driven mode that destroyed the purpose of the game.
4490) One of the worst story sequels I have ever had the displeasure to play. Neil you are a disgrace. The follow up to goat simulator has a better narrative. You and your writers should be hang your heads in shame. Play the first hour then call it a day and think of it as an extended DLC to the original. Do not continue past this you have been warned.
4491) Horrible , graphics and gameplay are OK but the story sucks ass. Its incredible how naughty dog ruined a beautiful franchise , all thanks to the SJW bullcrap.
4492) what happen? whats thatt a dumb history of revenge d revenge d revenge. ia is dumd too headshoot they from in front, they even notice
4493) Such a spit in the face to the fans of this game. Every bad review is correct- the violence is jarring, there is senseless violence against animals, the reason for killing Joel isn’t compelling whatsoever, Ellie has somehow managed to become unlikeable and they beat you over the head with the “violence is bad” message. Literally 0/10. They should have never made a part 2.
4494) If you loved the first game, just avoid this steaming pile of pornographic fan fiction run amuck. It’s an ugly game that forces the player to do ugly things for no reason save to subvert your expectations. The game will force you to play as characters you don’t simply hate but utterly despise the sight of. It tries to be edgy with gray morality, but comes off as a teenage edge lord wailing in his room to bad music. The lowest point is murdering the most beloved character in gaming by some sort of berserk genderqueer psychopath (“It’s Ma’am!”) You are then expected to play as and sympathize with said psychopath. Including an explicit sex scene between said psychopath and the game writer/directors transparent self insert character. It’s “Tumblr The Game!” This is arguably one of the worst, games ever made. Inarguably one of the most disappointing. This is not the Naughty Dog you once loved. That Naughty Dog was murdered by a Derranged Ma’am with a golf club, who is now wearing its skin.
4495) The game is absloute **** without any story or any meaningful conversation. Absolute waste of time
4496) The plot just sucks, it can't be badder than what they did, everything else in the game is cool
4497) The woke agenda strikes again.,Disgusting. The first game wasnt bad, but let politics and virtue signaling get in the way of telling a good story and you always end up ruining a good thing. Naughty dog is garbage.
4498) The developers did a great job to make this game beautiful, Anita Sargsyan wiped out all their work.  Great gameplay and terrible plot.
4499) This game is trash, the story is weak. I can write a better story than this garbage. Save your money!
4500) Biggot sandwich. The game tossed out every last piece of what made the first game great, and decided to make a propaganda piece instead. The sooner this mistake dies, the better.
4501) Don't buy this game. Neil Druckmann destroyed the series. The second part doesn't exist for me.
4502) So, if you want to know how to crush one of the best and one of the most expected game.. I have finished this game recently. And what can i say...there are great graphic design, great gameplay, surroundings, persons...but broken dreams. There is agenda of lgbt and femenism again. I want just play in games!!! Don't absorb your sjw cringe themes! If I will would learn it i turn on an any modern movie, tv channel or stupid politics. But this is game and I want have a rest after work and enjoy an unreal colour world and will go away from the problems and politics Hello from Sweden
4503) Joel died a **** way it makes you play as the murderer in the end you don’t get to kill the Abby biotch that killed joel
4504) Such arrogance to shove your own moral values and political views to peoples' throats through the beloved franchise
4505) There are no Words to describe how much I hate this game.,*Just some Words to reach 75 characters*
4506) Completely ruined joels legacy by having a random doctors daughter kill him in the prologue of his game. What a waste.
4507) Absolute **** game. Please do not spend money on this......................................................................................................
4508) Not sure what game the critics were playing but I guess in the backs of their minds the freebies to review on PS5 must have been on their minds because this is not a "Must play" this is a "must avoid".
4509) If you want to buy turd, buy this game, it does not differ from turd.  The story is very, very boring.
4510) Really disappointed, only good in this game is details and graphics. Storyline is sick man fantasy probably pervert in real life as well. I can't give to play this game to my kids. Its pity that Ican't return money for this ****
4511) Very tedious and repetitive and the ending was very unsatisfying after all that hard work.I do not recommend for anyone who wants to have a fun experiance.
4512) The game is one of the worst, the gameplay was boring like the same thing over and over again. The story was awful the characters were ruined. Whole game is just about revenge just like all the user reviews. Dont buy it dont play it.
4513) once again lgbt garbage ruining games, full of politic propaganda, total garbage game
4514) Reminded me of hat RJ did to the characters of Force Awakens. Completely changed them and destroyed them along with horrible rationale across the board. What a way to ruin the game for fans of its predecessor.  Spoilers:,Also playing the “villain” didnt work in the slightest.
4515) Story is the most important thing to me when it comes to games and that is the worst part of this game thus the low ranting. The animation and sound was good enough to deserve a the little I gave. Game play is basically the same as the first.
4516) It's a hule pile of crap story is awful they massacred a franchise worst game ever
4517) Gameplay gets too repetitive especially if you play stealthy, I wasted 60 bucks on this and would give the first game a 10 out of 10 because the story carried it, but come on the story for this one only uses shock value and is uncreative.
4518) Have an awful end game, my god, it's look like a Game Of thrones End, they ruined the game
4519) People that do not understand why this game actually forces an agenda on the player, probably dont know how subtle they operate and how its transmitted.,In no game you will find it obviously stated, but it will be portraied with an underlying tone, so that the user might get used to it.,Showing off transgender/bisexual and so on is not wrong or anything (after all we are all humans with different tastes and intrests), but the way they are presented plays a big role on why this leaves a bad taste.,It feels forced, it doesent feel natural. If you are trans/bisexual, so be it, but do not make a big deal out of it, as if its superior or any more noteworthy than a straight guy/girl.,Actually you do not even have to mention it. It is absolutly meaningless for any sane person anyway, because it doesent mean anything anyway.
4520) Stupid game absolutely smashed tlos1 . Should never been made . Naughty dog should've saved money,time, and effort in making another title with this good graphics and game mechanics.
4521) Smh. How can ppl say this is a masterpiece of a video game??! The story is so bad they butchered our beloved characters because revenge, politics and a personal agenda.  The graphics are amazing 10/10 yes but that's all its got the rest is pure naughty dog popo
4522) Speechless on how terrible this game is from killing Joel and all of a sudden finding forgiveness to let Abby live.,Without a doubt the game play isn’t bad and the graphics are good but at end of the day people only care about the story which made the games amazing! Deserves all the bashing
4523) DON’T BUY THIS GAME!,Neil ruined it for us.,Way to ruin the game!
4524) Extremely disappointed with the plot in which countless flaws were presented in the pursuance of identity politics angenda.
4525) Loved the graphics but like most game companies they have been infiltrated with PC babies that ruin nuance and story for their own selfish reasons
4526) Due to the developers hate towards youtubers who mentioned the material and wanted to express their opinions about the game due to the leaks, I am giving the game a 0. Not only that but due to the  horrendous way naughty dog went about the whole leak situation caused their image as a company to deprecate.
4527) To kill a fundamental character and just to pander to the liberal market by creating a lesbian female lead for the revenge arc is just lazy writing.,Worst sequel ever.
4528) Huge fan of the first game but unfortunately not a fan of this one. The storyline is heavily lacking and the user reviews show. Save your money.
4529) I’m going to give full score to Assassin’s Creed, because Assassin’s Creed makes me kill enemies every time
4530) The Last of Us: Part 2 is both "Stunning and Brave" and features a lot of ma'am on ma'am action that delivers a "hole in one" experience. They bring a whole new meaning to "Naughty Dog"
4531) Very game good.................................................,G R A T U L A
4532) Game is an absolute blast. Loving it so far. Got into golfing after this game. Not really sure where all the hate is coming from tho
4533) What is going on, sorry my brain can’t process the f******* storyline. It’s so horrible!!!! Joel deserves better than a golf club!
4534) Did they really expect us to like something like that? I‘m glad everything got leaked before it was released.. this game has a bad story and kills off Joel, the best character.. also political correctness is just destroying everything and is now sadly making a move onto games, Don’t buy it, don’t support naughty Dog with this garbage they put out..
4535) Game was way over hyped and over in a day. The story was cringy and uninteresting. A good portion of the  dialogue was just unrelated to the story and solely for some kind virtue signaling. Really weird. The gameplay offered almost nothing new. The enemies were the same and everything was just like part one. I recommend a hard pass on this game until its in the $5 bin at Christmas.
4536) What made the first game so great was the beautiful character development, the story, the fast paced action. None of which is in this one.,"Story-driven game" The story is garbage. Characters don't behave like in the first game. Joel and Tommy are suddenly trusting idiots when in the first game Joel right from the start prioritised the survival of himself and those close to him over anyone else. Joel is very perceptive and should have been wary around a new heavily armed group.,The ending is **** I couldn’t get to the credits rolling because still... Still after half the game playing as mega boring Abby I hated her and couldn't believe that instead of switching back to Ellie they thought it would be cool and "edgy" to fight Ellie to the death. I looked up what happens after and it is absolute fanfiction.,Out of all of the many, many new characters I liked three of them, was indifferent to one, and absolutely hated the rest. Jesse is interesting, I would have liked knowing more about his relationship with Joel. The dog was very cute but wasted on the slimy "Owen?" and Mel. And I really enjoyed Lev. But he was in the game for much to short a time to properly bond with him. I just didn't believe anyone. It all felt very awkward and there was no character development.,The focus is too wide. The plot of the first game was focused and split into beggining, end and four seasons. This one has "previously on LOU", beginning, fakeout end, end, extra ending scene, flashbacks, dream sequences, weird time jumps, and more convoluted bs.,Graphics: 9/10,Gameplay: 5/10 (walking simulator, weird ai) Story: - 20/10,I'm done talking about this garbage.
4537) I wish I could say I liked this game, I really do. But when they in essence urinate on the grave of the story that they have built up over the years, and replace loved characters with new ones that do not even feel like they have a semblance of feeling or anything else for that part, they feel like machines basically. Then I as a consumer and a player do not find meaning in playing the game. I wanted to play this game to expand on Joel's and Ellie's story, but this game does the opposite of that.
4538) bull **** story! what is the writer thinking ? IGN 10?????? How much money do you get???? We do not forgive you forever!
4539) remember when we played games to escape real life **** and politics,oh good old days,now we force to the feminist and lgbtq agenda in every **** game,we dont care if you are straight,gay,black,white,asian,we just want to play and enjoy a game without forcing things in our throat
4540) Save your cash, you don't want this. very bad story and no characters you will like,,rip last of us
4541) Absolutely terrible. Do not buy. Horrible writing.,NaughtyDog treated their employees like slaves.,Do not support this industry.
4542) Why was it to disfigure the beautiful girl from the first part? Stop allowing Anita Sargsyan to the games idiots!
4543) Worst game of Naughty Dog studio. A mediocre story that added a bunch of offensive ideas of feminism, tolerance, and other nonsense, just to get good reviews from "progressive" critics and a mad crowd of feminists and other garbage. Congratulations to the Studio that bent under the garbage, now for me the Studio itself is mediocre garbage.
4544) Character development from the previous game has been thrown out the window for the sake of awful storytelling and promoting unnesessary political agenda to the players.
4545) So here is what I think:,,Pros:,- gameplay,- graphics,- atmosphere,- sound,- music,,All those parts are undeniable very good. Its top notch. Sure the controls sometimes feel weird but they do in most of the games. It would be unfair to say this game isnt up to date in terms of all those points I mentioned.,,Cons:,- story,- character design,- character development,- plot holes,,So, even with all the pros this game is really really bad. It makes NO sense that Ellie act how she acts in certain parts of the game but that isnt even the biggest thing about why its bad.,The reason is: character development.,If you kill one of the most beloved characters early in the game (Joel) and want to bring in new main playable characters like Abby, you HAVE to bring WAY more backstory in order to make the player feel with her.,I mean she KILLED Joel!,How do you make the player like her? Bring more and more backstory before she does that. Let the players play 2-10h as Abby when she was a child or whatever. The backstory of her is basically told in 10minutes and then her dad is being killed. Thats it? And now I have to feel with her and understand why she killed Joel?,Hell no!,That is weak story telling. Really really weak.,,Then there are all the other new characters. Nobody is likeable. Like really. They all feel empty. They are only shells without any meaning.,,This game is just bad. Do yourself a favor and dont buy it. The reviews the journalists wrote are either bought by Sony or ND or are heavily politicly influenced. Sad thing is: because of that same journalists will most likely make this game GOTY. What a joke.,,Safe your money and buy something else.,,And last but not least: this is technically a very good game but the story/characters is/are SO bad it just doesnt matter how well the rest is done.,,You want a good revenge story? Watch "Oldboy" then you know how to make a good revenge story that shocks everybody to their core.,,This game right here? Its garbage.,They deceived us the game is not worth buying
4546) Really bad , Joel dies in the first 2 hours and you have to play the character that kills him and somehow find sympathy for her which I clearly didn't, then you have to fight Ellie which is the most absurd thing ever ,and then you olay as Ellie and kill hundreds of people that were with abby ,you kill an pregnant woman and torture another woman to death hut you can't even kill abby in the end and you let her go ,what andelluie is left all alone and her worst fear has come true about everyone who she ever loved and cared for has died or left her .joel is dead ,jesse is dead ,tommy is angry at her and leaves her and dina leaves her in the end .and so there is no sense of fullfillment in the end .and abby and lev are still alive as a duo ,whom im assuming you have to play as for part 3 as theyre like the new ellie and joel duo .well i already know thats gonna flop even harder than this one .this is all neils fault.
4547) Shill media and accession reviewers (who profit from getting game earlier but are afraid to give bad review), did it again. They shamelessly praised game, that normal fans dont like (what is clearly seen here). They didnt even have decency to point out obvious flaws like boring gameplay or illogical, disappointing story.,Gaming industry nowadays is just one big cesspool of bs and lies. Im starting to boycott all AAA games entirely. Just a bunch of greedy corporations (trying to cater to sjw mob) and dishonest, paid reviewers.
4548) Really disappointed... Not sense... Even in the main part of the game... I'm going to return it.
4549) One of these employees must’ve thought Batman vs Superman was a theatrical masterpiece and decided to have an actual repeat of the “Martha” moment in game. You would think that they would learn the mistake and not repeat it, but that’s what happens when you get cocky.
4550) The game is bad,The story is bad,Dont waste your cause every thing built in the first part has been destroyed in this part
4551) what in the hell happened to this game very sad how they destroyed it, don't bring real-world problems in a game please we play games to enjoy and if someone wants gay porn or whatever is that cringe there is sites for it
4552) Really disappointing. Graphically good but a game that has added pretty much nothing new to the original (gameplay) apart from an over convolution of sjw/pc story telling which basically destroys any story arc. The detraction from the story by woke politics throughout the game completely ruins any story telling and makes it unbelievable and unbearably bad...
4553) GolfclubMy disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined.,I waited 5 years to play this,And they gave me a horrible intro and **** ending,I just want to forget about this game
4554) Who wrote the story? How did you take YEARS to do that? Such genius graphics and gameplay got ruined by such a **** storyline.
4555) - Weak story so far,- Characters aren't that interesting,- Emotional feelings like the first TLOU ... sadly a nope.,Just remember the insane start of the game.
4556) Huge disappointment. Horrible writing in this game. Hard to believe that a big studio like Sony would disrespect their customers like this by releasing **** like this.
4557) I can't even put into words how crap and disappointing this game is. I simply can't justify it with words. Crap characters, crap story and all its done is left me feeling suicidal,I absolutly loved the first game and played the campaign many times. But I won't even be looking at this game case again. Its getting sold. 7 years iv waited for a pile of crap. Please do yourself a favour and don't waste your time or money.
4558) Accessibility is phenomenal, AI in game has improved since TLOU 1. Poor rating is due to their poor writing, narrative is just horrible. When players begin to not want to play your game, you know you messed up greatly. In this case, players were invested in the characters of Joel and Ellie cause TLOU1 storyline was A+. But this game, they tried to be unexpected and it ended up backfiring. Dialogue is boring too.
4559) Arrogant director. Arrogant critics.,What is the value of criticism that is not sympathized by the public?,Why can't critics empathize with people's anger?,You just say the users are savage.,Why does the director make us hate, not move us?,Do you think people are really upset with the LGBT factor?,Now LOU2 is a nonexistent game. Even if it does, it will be treated as a fan-made work rather than a formal follow-up.,,You reading a review. Don't waste your precious money on this game. You can go to YouTube and watch all of these terrible results for free.
4560) Don’t waste your hard earned cash on this woke garbage fest. You will be very disappointed with the poor script and the woke agenda signalling that has been added and totally unnecessary. And now the game is out you can see that Naughty Dog’s trailers & teasers were designed specifically to mislead fans of TLoU1 into believing all the main characters and storyline was intact. It’s safe to say all the original characters and the last of us story has been ruined beyond repair!
4561) I played the first game through so many times and it **** hurts brother. Did Grounded+ and platted the game just to get pissed on like this, you hate to see it,Hello BDG
4562) Story is horrible plot holes a mile long they killed of the best character for an annoying little **** game play does not improve from first game.
4563) I have no words. After the final, there was a desire to throw away the game disc. It was as if I had been spit in the face. It's disgusting. There were so many expectations, and I, as a big fan of the first part, got THIS.
4564) So much to wait for the game and all in vain. The game is boring a lot of flaws including the plot. And about the lesbian theme in General it is disgusting to write. It is a pity that they **** up such a game with their tolerastia in the first place.
4565) If you making politics instead of games you have to be ready for that! Second,that is the story about abusing inoccent young girl.
4566) Very disappointed in the story, gameplay is ok, but this game is about the plot.
4567) I hate to be so harsh on this game, but everything is just a miss here. The original game had a compelling story, an interesting setting, and a in depth cast. They basically threw everything out the window for the sequel. The first game had a wonderful bonding between Joel and Ellie, but apparently that was too good so they immediately chuck that out the window and replace it with a boring revenge tale that does not feel flushed out. The combat and gameplay are identical to the original, so they couldn't even be bothered to improve that. Its a convoluted mess that's hard to follow, and just inferior to the original game in every conceivable way. This feels less like a sequel and more like a college kid's fan game. It's also incredibly short, I've already beaten it. Not worth 60$ as it sits.
4568) I do not share the views of the developers of the game.  the propaganda which is crammed with the game makes it difficult to enjoy the game
4569) I didnt like this game the story has changed the animation was not like i expected
4570) Honestly, just a boring game. I don't care about the politics and nothing's been spoiled so far. It's just not a very engaging experience :(
4571) PROS:,,- stunning graphics, landscapes, characters animation,- immersive soundtracks,- voice acting on point,,CONS:,,- characters development lacking or completely gone off road,- storywriting beyond nonsensical and a stab in the heart of the fans of the franchise,- gameplay completely unchanged, mostly filled with useless, apathic conversations between,soulless characters.,,There is just too much to say...of course i had high expectations. Always defended Naughty Dog and considered it one of the few game companies left to live and fight for their fans, with memorable classic and new franchises for everyone to enjoy, from Crash Bandicoot to Just Cause and so on...TLOU in particolar hooked me instantly with the deep bond between Joel and Ellie, served on a story  worth an oscar.,,Then Neil Druckmann came, and ruined EVERYTHING...whatever you loved about the first episode, here it's been devoured, digested and shat out of this clown's ass and elevated as a masterpiece or "future of gaming" from washed up game devs, critics and sjw baffoons.,Bare in mind, i've nothing against lgbtq+xalphabet people, but throwing a bunch of incomplete, unlikable characters and scripts in a goddamn videogame, to appeal to a bunch of angry little people with minority complex....you gotta be joking.,This trend of shaming anything that's white, straight, or male for the sake of it, has to stop, REALLY.,On top of this, the horrible attempt of a storytelling, full of plotholes, hollow new characters, and an ending to make you shiver from anger, disappointment and frustration.,There's no way anyone in a healthy state of mind would consider THIS anything but an ABOMINATION and an INSULT to everyone that supported the franchise and the whole company and gaming industry all over these years.,DON'T BUY IT, FORGET IT EVEN EXISTS, like the last season and a half of GoT, or the last season of Scrubs.
4572) First game had so so gameplay but had an interesting story and characters.,,Okay now this game still has so so gameplay but now the story and characters are garbage.  It was a chore to finish since nothing was motivating me to go on.  The characters don't act like themselves and are just unbelievable.,,Whoever wrote this script needs to be fired.
4573) I have NEVER in my entire life been so disappointed in a game series that basically made my childhood. The word HATE is nowhere near close to describe how horrible the last of us 2 really is and how much I absolutely hated it! The story is trash. And trust me when I say “trash” is great compared to this game. As for naughty dog, shame. You crossed the line big time. PS: about Shimmer, the horse. F you forever and always.
4574) The game of thrones season 8 of videogames. GOT should have introduced a token trans character at the end to divert the critisism of bad writing.
4575) Unfortunate way for such a great character to go. I was genuinely excited only to be let down by such poor writing.
4576) Absolute garbage and disrespectful for the last of us part 1. Worst way to end the game.
4577) Preordered for it's reasonable for players to have a high expectation based on the part I , while the sudden change in character's personality is not a wise move (especially Joel). And when it comes to the so-called "diversity", Detroit: Become human handled this much better.
4578) The Last Of Us was a game that had pretty lacking mechanics, decent gameplay and a phenomenal story.,Part two has the same lacking mechanics, decent gameplay, but its spread out so very thinly, you spend very little time enjoying it and more time just getting through it. And to top it off, this entry cant fall back on having a great story like the first did, part 2 is ridiculously monotonous, spends most of its dialogue pushing druckmans political views instead of telling a story. Really dissapointing.
4579) Just a spit in your soul. And this spit burns a hole in you.,I did not expect this. Okay, the world is a complete ass. But why the game too ...,There are games that have a bad ending. But they have good feelings.,This game is just a failure.
4580) To say I didn't like it would be insulting any other game I didn't like.,This game has got to be the most pretentious garbage I have ever seen.,Naughty dog tries way to hard to "subvert expectations" and instead creates a complete train wreck,of forced politics and LGBTQ ideals. Part 1 had the perfect balance between story and character development, and surprisingly managed to have LGBTQ plot devices that actually made sense.,Druckmann clearly has some problems he need to work out with certain people instead of implementing them into and highly anticipated installment to a series.
4581) Really suck!!!!!!,suck suck suck!!!!!!,**** u TLOU2!!!!!!!,30678mdfkash!!!!!
4582) I don't even know where to start. The good things: same game-play, landscapes and nice graphics. That's it.,Such an awful, lazy, nasty develop of characters. Abby is just one attempt to include a minority just because, and I don't have anything against the Trans community, but it seems that you didn't even had the first game as reference. This is the final act of an astonishing story, and you blew it up in the worst way possible.,What people wanted about this game was the story of two of the most beloved characters in video games, their relation and the steaks they have to endure to survive, together or alone, and just introduce some person to hunt them down and kill them, and even worse, forced the players to play as him.,I can't imagine how much you payed reviewers to leave a good one.,,Awful game, awful experience.,,Shame on you, naughty Dog.
4583) Absolutely TERRIBLE Story.  The game is NAUSEATINGLY Bad. You as the Player are literally Held down and Beaten/Tortured, and you get NOTHING in the way of Revenge. they Raked the first games name over the coals for THIS!? If i could meet the "Director" of this game in Person id do to him what "Abby" did to Joel. If Ghost of Tsushima isn't FANTASTIC, the PS4 (And 5) are in deep trouble.
4584) I'm just here to offset shill reviews from shill reviewers in a shill industry that has no regard for integrity. Nobody should trust reviews from companies that get to make indirect money from their pandering or posturing outside of gaming and in the politics of social media, and get to ride the marketing and the hype wave of the games they review.These critic reviews are not incentivized to give consumers an idea about the product. They are astroturfing for these companies, and that is dishonest and misleading marketing practices, which is illegal in almost every country on the Earth. Journalists aren't supposed to be in the back pocket of those things they are claiming to "review." These are Lets Plays at best, and shouldn't be counted as anything more than an influenced view of the product.,,Unless consumers start looking at truly independent opinions instead of the schmoozers and those that will compromise their ethics for a trip to a convention and a ham sandwich, they will get what they are given.,,"Consumers get what they are given. Users find what they need." -Datum
4585) Graphics are decent.,Story is bland. No personality.,Game-play is what you'd expect.,No replay value.,Waste of money/10.
4586) The characters are uninteresting, the plot is bleak, the writing is awful, i could rant about this game all day long
4587) For Joel,,So, this game is really really bad. It makes NO sense that Ellie act how she acts in certain parts of the game but that isnt even the biggest thing about why its bad.,The reason is: character development.,If you kill one of the most beloved characters early in the game (Joel) and want to bring in new main playable characters like Abby, you HAVE to bring WAY more backstory in order to make the player feel with her.
4588) I regret about me buyed this game.,Very bad plot... total SWJ propaganda. Low game-play,You parasite on Joel character!,The worst exclusive on PS4... ps sss
4589) It's terrible story on 2020 so sad, because I really like "The last of us"not part 2
4590) No need to explain , totally trash,Waste time and money , waste life !!!!!!
4591) A classic teenager sex fantasy game. 0/10. Yet another Life is Strange if you want to call that too.
4592) Beautiful game.,,But the overall story is utterly nonsensical. Wasting the majority of the game with a boring and blank character like Abby was a huge mistake. Naughty Dog should have stick their guns with Ellie... playing as Abby feels like a massive side quest / a boring DLC that really didn't hit the mark.,,TLOU fans deserved better.
4593) I am giving this dumpsterfire of a game a 1. Why? Because of the graphics. Every other single aspect of this game is garbage. Old rehashed mechanics. What the **** were they thinking about Some of the plot points. If there was even a plot. Its like a god damn never ending trainwreck. Save your money and don't buy this **** Give me my money back or pay me c or
4594) Don't waste money on this thing, 7 years waiting for such a garbage. Sad to see a beautiful franchise end like this
4595) Naughty Dog is sadly gone now. People don't make these kinds of decisions overnight, it was 7 years in the making and knowing this story. Yeah unfortunately we'll have to find our gaming fix elsewhere.
4596) Tlou 1 was great, so what the actual hell happened here? The story is complete GoT season 8 level garbage.,The only good things here are the graphics and voice acting. The gameplay is meh at best, repetitive and a bit outdated.
4597) I'm not sure why every game must be inundated with sjw agendas. Do not want
4598) thet ruined a good story. god damn you neil, naughty dog and sony. the game time is just two hours, after that, there is no need to play.
4599) Anytime creators inject political narratives or virtue signaling into a game, it ceases being a game and becomes propaganda.,When the paid shills fawn over the game giving it 10 out 10 then you know its awful. The creator's actions (dcma take downs) shows they are not worthy of being treated fairly.,The story is below par. It comes across as a entitled parent story on reddit. 2 minutes in and you feel full from all the BS they have fed you.,Save your money or go buy the new Skyrim because this turd stinks and needs to be flushed. The fact that you still have websites and paid shills trying in vain to convince actual gamers that this is worthy of playing show everything that is wrong with the industry. Shills are nothing more than political activists masquerading as objective gamers, gaming companies desperately trying to virtue signal to the far left activists that they are "woke". Platforms carrying political narratives into what becomes games and websites trying to lessen the impact of actual gamers opinions in order to push political crap.,Voters told these far left fascists and low IQ SJWs that they are not in ANY kind of agreement with their Anti-American views so the shills and activists doubled their efforts to flood all entertainment platforms with their nonsensical political views.,Thankfully these "woke" companies are falling one after another because no one wants to pay to listen to what offends them or what group they are trying to virtue signal.,Bottom line: ANY company/website/activist that injects their fascist opinions, woke activism or ignorance into OUR entertainment deserves to have their intellect match their pockets : bankrupt, devoid of creativity and hope. They deserve to be jobless, homeless and friendless. Their brand of activism has no place in this world.
4600) I am so disappointed. I waited for 7 years for this game but this is what they delivered. A trashy story telling, plot hole every where.. damn, i wish they didn't made the last of us two.
4601) I just finished it. I have to admit that in the 17 years I've been playing videogames, I've never been more frustrated. Save your money for some other game.
4602) 3/10,Disgusting plot, disgusting agenda, average gameplay and great graphics and attention to detail.,Ordinary employees did their work at 5+ points, which can not be said about their main screenwriter. He literally stuffs his vision into your throat. His sexist vision, I really did not expect this in the 21st century. Without spoilers, unfortunately, the plot cannot be described in more detail, but believe me - if you liked part 1, it is better not to play in 2. You will be amazed at what is happening, amazed in a negative way.
4603) Gameplay is still the same boring thing uncharted did much better.,Took months to finish then delayed it to try and make more money. Hope it fails.,Druckman fired Amy Hennig for this s*i* What a waste
4604) Blatant Slap in the face to the fans,  I cannot believe how many lies I feel I have been fed, but this is awful, I have to voice my opinion here because I feel like I am taking Crazy Pills their is no way not one person at Sony saw this and said holy **** this is bad.
4605) I feel bullied by this game, disrespected as a fierce fan of the first TLOU. How could they spit on the characters we know and love in order to push some crappy woke agenda down our throats? The game looks decent from a technical point of view, but the story and the treatment of the characters make it nothing but a fresh masterfully polished turd.
4606) Abby wasn't shown in the build up. Of this game and she is the the bad guy that kills Joel in front of elle with a golf club she is a straight up evil person you then have to play as this character for upto 8 hours naughty dog try to make you sympathise with this character that you have no investment in at all and the broke back mountain scene is forced it a game about revenge and killing everyone but in the end it also fails in doing this as elle let's the trans person abby go the  BTW this game is hot trash
4607) The First TLOU had a great story and characters which felt real and relatable even. Even though the game play and combat was not great, it did not matter because we loved the characters and their development and relationships. This games abandoned all that for nothing really. A real disappointment and a shame really.
4608) The story telling of the 1st one is the thing that bring it to next level. And now it is all gone. Even minecraft dungeon have more in depth story telling than this
4609) this game is nothing. this game is all about story so if story is 0 so all is 0
4610) last of us remastered story was a happy ending, naughtydog didn't have to ruin the whole story in part 2. naughty dog should have work in another single player story based sequel. would be great if they did that most of the fans of lou is disappointed due to the ending.
4611) Disgusting attitude towards the fans of the previous game.,Naughty dog ​​wasted the best chance to continue the TLOU IP.
4612) It's like cooking a great soup. and then **** into it.,,gay/10. gud job ND
4613) Trash story................sjw stuff.....................................just sad man
4614) It's basically Captain Marvel: The Game. Another mighty game company ruined by a wacky leader with a woke agenda. Merging movies and games was a mistake after all.
4615) They ruined the amazing dynamic that was Ellie and Joel. It made absolutely no sense to kill him off immediately when they could have had a very heart warming scene towards the middle-endish of the game. Do some research before you buy. If you liked the first game you will NOT like this one. Glad I was able to get a refund!
4616) A technically impressive game, if boring as sin, the beautiful combination of Story and Gameplay that the original put out, gets stuffed by political agendas and a silly "Revenge" story - violence is bad you guys - in the Last of Us Part II. My disappointment is immeasurable. Thank you Naughy Dog, for killing another of the franchises I love.,I got my refund, you should do the same.
4617) Looks stunning, but storywise, cant hold a candle compared to the first one. Forcing us to play with Abby is making me wanna vomitt in my own mouth. You deserve all the hate that you are getting ND.
4618) Graphics, music and gameplar are excellent, but Neil Druckmann ruined the essence of first game character´s. Example: Joel was a person with extremely distrust of every person in the first. In this part 2, he went and believe in the first person thar appeared and,,consequently, dies.
4619) I love all the Naughty Dog games i've played the Crash games, The Jax games, the Uncharted games, and the first The Last of Us(Which I loved, even the DLC I didn't think was THAT bad), but this game just spits(literally Neil Druckmann self inserts himself into the game to spit on a beloved character from the first) the fan base and story of the original. This is just a horrid game. The gameplay is just like the original, no real updates, it feels so outdated already, like I'm playing a PS3 game with some ducktape slapped on, and TLoU had some already outdated gameplay at the time. There are so many stupid "environment puzzles" where you just move a ladder or box, like in the first, but multiplied by a ton.,,The story has many issues which I'm not going to get into as I want to leave this a spoiler free review, but if you liked the first one and cared about the characters, then don't waste your money on this game that will spit on you and your love for the game, because you don't UNDERSTAND NEIL DRUCKMANN'S GREATNESS(Who forced out a woman, Amy Hennig, who had denied that she was being harrassed in the work place and said that men she worked with helped her and were nice).,,The "Critic" reviews are all paid for, I have to believe this, and I believe a heavy amount of the "Positive" reviews are bots after having read them(yet Naughty Dog, Neil Druckmann, and many of the cast are claiming the negative reviews are all bots made by MEAN PEOPLE). They all praise this game and story, saying it's great, when there are multiple issues with it as I said but can't get into to keep this spoiler free, praising the gameplay, etc... The Audio is good I will give them that, and the Visuals are really good too(although not the best out there right now, not close even, but still really good).,,Save your money and don't buy this. So disappointed I even borrowed this from a friend to play.
4620) Game is terrible, what they did to Joel was complete bad story telling and it ruined the franchise. Why would someone write something like this?,They literally made Joel into a dope
4621) SJW cucked trash they have to pay me to even think about playing this absolute bag of trash
4622) The game is absolute trash and it would be better if it doesn't came out at all,Really disappointed
4623) wtf is this, why do i need to know about abby's **** story... this game is trash! refund my money!
4624) People may say that we're hating this game just because of the LGBT issue, while it's entirely the opposite: they're expecting us to like it just because it's included. This game is rubbish despite whatever they feel like putting on it. Simple as that.
4625) - Horrible story - uninteresting new characters - Outdated gameplay,Why even bother paying USD 60 ?!
4626) I made an account just to say how bad this game is honestly wtf i can't beileve this game is related to the original the last of us in any way
4627) Save your money! Unlike the original, "The Last of Us 2" is horribly bad.  To think this garbage story came from a AAA game company is laughable.  Instead of a cohesive story and fun game play, we get non-stop pandering to certain agendas thrown in with awkward pacing and zero character development.  They even decided to kill off fan favorite characters; characters who they featured in trailers and through deceptive marketing tactics made it seem like they were going to be a large part of the story.  I've played games for decades.  This is one of the worst stories I have had to experience to date.  I am pissed I cannot get my money back from this abomination.  I would have rather used my $60 to wipe my butt and then flush it down the toilet; I would have gotten more satisfaction from that.  I'm an idiot for not looking at leaks before playing this game.  Shame on me for trusty Naughty Dog.  This will probably be the last Naughty Dog game I ever spend money on.
4628) Here we have a video game that is not just video game it's a political video game and the whole point of it is to satisfy feminist and it's so focused on pandering to feminist that it forgot to be a fun video game
4629) Not a game its scam for a massage Bad story Same gameplay with little adjustment Stealth is boring Forced play with character we never seen in trailer Joel disrespect and have nothing to do with the game and ellie is not ellie... Forcing a massage have nothing to do with game story
4630) Honestly the absolute worst story of any game I have ever seen. The writer had a clear agenda and purpose he wanted to tell with his game and it was garbage. Absolutley no redeeming it. Its basically The Last Jedi of video games. Druckman and company cared so much about "subverting expectations" that they forgot to make the story anything good. Heres the main thing. The gameplay is nothing special. Never has been. The only reason the first one was loved so much was because of the story. Ellie was NEVER the reason for the success of The Last of Us. It was ALWAYS Joel. The fact that Druckman didnt understand this is why the game falls flat on its face from the very beginning.
4631) One of the biggest let downs in gaming history, on par with star citizen.,I avoided the peaks and argued with people ragging on the game for months before its release and you know what, they were right this game is a a front to the senses I was promised deep emotions that I had never felt before but all I felt was a all to familiar emotion pure hatred, seething hatred for abby and everything she stands for, truly awful
4632) Neil Druckmann says on hıs video on ND youtube channel  he was cryıng ın the end of hıs playtrough now ı can see why
4633) The graphics are beautiful, the gameplay itself is very much like the first one with more options. They put a lot of time into letting you customize how you play (loot amount, difficulty, listen modes). That and the flash backs with Joel and Ellie are the best parts of this game. The story is complete garbage, imagine if Nathan Drake was killed off by some random mercenary's son you don't even remember. They did fans of the first game a huge disservice, they did a very poor job trying to make you see both sides. It's stupid and misses the mark hard.
4634) No spoilers. This officially takes the cake from MW3 as my biggest videogame disappointment of all time. The first game was a masterpiece, including its DLC story focused on Ellie, and Ive been waiting for a sequel ever since. Not only is Part II a huge waste of money, but its also the biggest waste of time I ever played, and for that reason I wouldnt even recommend it for free. How did we get here, to this? May the first game live on forever, and may this piece of garbage die swiftly.
4635) absolutely Garbage  the story telling is a joke the writer doesnt respect the value of the characters.
4636) This game - a big disaster for modern industry and modern life. I want to return my money for pre-oder
4637) Marvelous graphics just as it was expected,unlike the story ,I was astonished when Joel died,but I accept it,Ellie will have her revenge ,That was what I think,then in the following twenty hours she killed hundreds of people without blinking an eye,and finally get to the murder,she spared her,What a waste of my time
4638) Big disappointment. Part 1 was a great game. Stupid plot, clearly more focused on their own agenda instead of making a great game for gamers.
4639) Just not what we wanted kinda sucks to know we've waited all this time for nothing
4640) I have bad news to report. I won't be able to finish the Last of Us 2. It is literally one of the most boring games I have ever played, in regards to horror game packed with action. Its just boring. Its the Walking Dead but the zombies have mushrooms on them and is packed with modern day politics. If you enjoyed the first game, believe that it deserved more content, expect to play the additional content with no hopes of closure to the mushroom zombie apocalypse, want to play a game that the mushroom zombies have become second fiddle to the human on human drama (such as sexual preference as opposed to are we going to be killed today by **** zombies), are into playable movies, and a game that like Duke nukem forever took way too long to come out and completely missed its hype train, beautiful graphics that are on par with every other ps4 triple a game, being mislead to think you will continue to play with the same character from the first game to find out you play 12 hours of the game as the man woman, and is riddled with plot holes: then this game is for you. Even still, its not worth $60. I stand strong with the "$1 per hour up to $60" law. And that includes replay hours. Its a 25-30 hour 4 part dlc that derails from the story and has been made into child's play thanks to the dodge button. Im actually pissed off that I had to delete Modern Warfare to install this. If you've ever played a Telltales game, then you know exactly what to expect in terms of gameplay. As for the "open world" aspect, please don't fall for that **** either. The biggest area you encounter is like a downtown area, and you can explore the surrounding buildings on set routes because most of everything is "blocked off" by rubble and clutter. The best way to describe this snooze fest is Telltales Walking Dead on Monster with mushroom walkers and a dodge button. In 16 hours of play time, you spend 3 of it in flashbacks. I haven't made it to the Abbey part, but I've heard its on par with playing as Raiden in Metal Gear Solid 2 for the next 12 hours of the game. If you've played MGS2, then you understand and appreciate that comparison. Get gamefly, borrow it off a friend, or wait for a price drop. They've lifted the ban on returning the game, and those that haven't destroyed their physical copies are returning it already, in waves. Play it for yourself and find out. It truly is a spectacle, if youre not a gamer. If you are a gamer, its just another boring game. Keep your politics out of our games, its where we go to escape your politics :)
4641) I loved last of us 1,The duo of joel and the girl and the story was awsome,Last of us 2 has Good graphism but I didnt liked the direction  took the story
4642) Terrible plot, repetitive gameplay, and unlikeable characters. Forgets any character development before the second game
4643) The history of the game is bad, because I’ve played 11 hours and I can honestly say this game not my type
4644) Completely and utterly ruined the entire narrative for me and the walking simulator gameplay is absolute garbage, something that should be left to death stranding, but back to the topic at hand, just please do yourself a favour if you’re an original TLOU fan just think that it was the one and only game in the series.
4645) The plot in this game is terrible.  I expected something better from the creators of Uncharted.
4646) The story of the 1 first game and the relation of joel and ellie was the principal reason i loved the game this game was a big fu to the fans and you quit to put effort in the story to push agenda.
4647) First of all, reviews are hard to judge but right now, it is negative. While one might say that the positive reviews are the true ones, the accounts that have done both positive and negative have only 1 review and were created just today. That being said, you can use that logic to compare the numbers of people willing to make an effort to leave a review to help others who come to this site to see if they want to play the game or not as $60 is quite expensive especially for those who are avid gamers.,,My opinion of this game is that it is not worth paying for and that it is a huge downgrade from the first The Last Of Us. This is because of several factors including, plotholes, forced narrative of revenge that subsides during the climax (Ellie lets Abby go even though she has no character development that led to that conclusion, as she has killed many in her quest for revenge), bad storytelling, forced LGBTQ selling point (Same-gender relationships are fine, no one can define who can be with another but this company has used this relationship as a selling point for the game as it is advertised, and more that will be explained. While the graphics are stellar, character models feel bland, unoriginal, and worse than the first game.,,The bad storytelling and plot holes that I will mention is a specific instance from *Joels death*. Tommy just gives out Joels name and Joel himself mentions his own name even though this is not the carelessness these characters usually display. Joel made sure to kill anyone who knew of him in the first game and yet he gives his name out casually to this group of aggressive people? The death of Joel is forced so there is an incentive for Ellie to start killing and progress the forced story and it just is unbearable as you have to play as the killer (Abby).,,This game just ruins the legacy of the first game left behind and will make me feel sad every time I play the original now, as I will remember the failure of the sequel.
4648) This game story was very horrible.  But Graphics and Sounds were very good.
4649) Just a complete disappointment! I really wouldn't recommend the game to my worse enemy.
4650) After I played the first two chapters, I realized that the structure of the story was just **** up. The death of Joel is too early and overwhelming. I tried to swallow playing with that **** but it seems that the developers just want to force propaganda on the players as the games focuses too much on sexual content. I don’t even care about the ending anymore. The graphics is great. 9/10,The control is terrible. 4/10,Story sucks 0/10
4651) The game play is just exactly the same from the original game and does nothing new. Just throwing around bricks and other objects to lure enemies away. It falls flat as a stealth game in comparison to other stealth games. The game could have 15 hours like the first game instead of 25. The story is really bad and full of plot holes. It pretty much insults the characters from the first game. Joel dies a lame death, falls into a predictable trap, lets himself get surrounded by people with guns, and trusts people he just met. His death was horrible, wasn't emotional at all, and didn't have a good compelling death like Arthur Morgan. Bad game and an insult to the original. Naughty Dog should not have fire Amy Hennig so that she could have wrote a good story for the game. The majority of people that worked on the first game, did not work on this one because they got too sick of Naughty Dog and quit their company.
4652) I waited 7 years for this? For Everything it does right, it goes out of its way to destroy itself. horrible dialogue and story, wasting characters and their potential, false advertising to trick players. Just ruined a once great franchise
4653) The writing in this game is really really bad and  the story much worse  , the new characters are awful all of this in one game,a big disappointment they call themselves naughty and they know why,and one plus : ABS is abby
4654) A key moment to actually prove that gaming journalists are either paid for giving good reviews.,The game itself is clusterf... of a story that only one man likes; the creator.,Technically it's ok.,I don't we ever will see a game reviewed so differently between users (real gamers) and sellout journalists.
4655) Disappointing, simply disappointing. Just imagine waiting for a game for so long and and playing this disaster. Nougty dog played us all these years.
4656) I don't need to say anything. Everything that I want to say about this game is already on here for you to see. Reviewers were definitely paid, who in their right mind would give this a 10/10. LEAVE POLITICS OUT OF VIDEO GAMES, you play video games to get away from that. Such a shame... NaughtyDog please re hire the old staff from the first game that made it so brilliant, if there even is a 3rd game...
4657) This game is a big MEH, is really boring, It brings nothing new, being a total waste, and only takes advantage of the name to sell something of very low quality, Besides they lied to the consumer making us think we'd control mine for much of the game, and then just kill him.
4658) Why ruin a good game, adding incomprensible things i would not recommend, finally the worst game,Why in the world still doing this scenes
4659) This game has too many polygons. I don't even care about the poor LGBT "representation", heck, this game might just be a satire of modern western games.
4660) The game is terrible in its attempts to adapt to the "modern" standards of life
4661) Stupid story that try to teach people consequences. Fell sick while playing it. Worst experience ever! Refund already. Graphic is fine.
4662) Absolute Marxist trash. Worst case of absolutely destroying a classic game IP.
4663) Why don't you go make a new uncharted game and kill off Nathan drake while your at it. Everyone knows that people love when the main character gets a brutal death
4664) A garbage story published by sneaky truth hiding con artists. it's all too common these days to have a group of people want to force an agenda, but they don't have a strong enough platform to stand on of their own. So they hijack and diminish the hard and extremely appreciated noticed work of others who came before them. .. we come across their latest victim of franchise snatching. "The Last of Us 2" where nothing we cared about or appreciated from the original title will be respected or preserved in this latest abomination.  The story is convoluted, unbelievable mess of  uninteresting, reprehensible and pathetic new characters. Attempting to hold them up the writing team misrepresents the personalities and established characterizations of our original beloved characters The game play is uninspired and endlessly  boring. Be prepared for a repetitive and  vulgar gore fest while in the background is an endlessly beating drum of the producers unable to keep their  opinions to themselves.
4665) Shame on Naughty Dog for destroying such an epic franchise in such a disgusting and gruesome way. I am a so glad I cancelled my collectors edition after I saw the leaks. I am a huge fan of the uncharted series, which definitely are masterpieces, but to give this game a 10, so many reviewers got paid....this is definitely a disasterpiece.... I am just going to keep playing my tomb raider, still a much better game than this.
4666) This game deserved a better destiny. I love Elli and Joel and you played us with the advertisement.
4667) Lazy writing written all over it.,Doesn't make any sense and utterly unsatisfying.
4668) I can’t believe I waited all these years for this, what a disappointment. If thought I was buying a zombie horror game, not a cheesy soap opera. If you have to play this I would at least get it cheap second hand, but even better just play last of us remastered and ignore the rubbish soap opera DLC mission “left behind”
4669) I don't like when games are used as a medium to express political agendas. Enjoy
4670) A crap! The Last of “Agenda”... Its a shame, Sony. Why they did this to the game?
4671) the Game was the worst than the leaks , bad starting ,  changing character as they want, do lie in triler , bad ending too waiting 7 year's  to this suck
4672) Disapointment? No no no much much worse. Only one good flashback and that"s IT!!! Ain"t buying this game. No logic in story...They can be any gender, any role, any character changes...but this...thing. That's not a Naughty dog game...People say "Let's just pretend it's not canon...it should be remade...from scratch...
4673) this game deserves a zero, rather nothing, dark matter, this game is a slopp
4674) Good graphics and atmosphere but very poor story. Why the hell did you do that. I would have refund if I have a chance. Very big disappointment.
4675) After waiting 7 years I need to say ... Graphics are good , enemy AI in my opinion dumber that in the first part ... In this age we have a lot of games with good graphics... This is just not good  enough ... The story is superficial, forced to promote real life ideology... This should be entertaining and rewarding experience...the strong part of the first episode  was the story . That is gone ,poor writing,akward interactions between protagonists.  I have serious doubts to invest again in naughty dog ....if I want political agendas pushed down on my throat I turn on my TV news  ... Not my gaming unit ....
4676) I loved the first game very much.   Huge fan of Joel.  A man who will do whatever it takes to keep his little girl safe. Even if he has to get his hands dirty.  I loved it.   When I saw Joel get viciously murdered in front of elly.  I had my heart torn out.  I just didn't want to play anymore.    So I put the controller down and haven't gone back to it since.   What a disgrace.   I don't even know what to say.
4677) Realistically, I would give 'The Last of Us Part II' 4 out of 10. However, the sheer ridiculousness and borderline-fraud that Sony, Naughty Dog and Druckmann took part in make me and many other fans out there very angry.,,'The Last of Us Part II' is a story-driven survival game, and if the plot is this terrible, I think it would have been better for Naughty Dog to scrap the whole thing. To kill off one of Play Station's most iconic and beloved characters in Act One, just for his death to ultimately mean nothing teaches the audience absolutely nothing. On top of that, attempting to teach gamers the lessons that "violence is bad" and "trans-phobia and homo-phobia are bad" is rich. Druckmann deserves to be fired, and Naughty Dog needs to formally apologize. This game was, without any exaggeration, a AAA failure.
4678) Slap in the face for fans of the first game. Garbage. Thx for sjw thing in post-apocalyptic, this is what i needed from that.
4679) Worst game i have ever played. The story is boring ,the mechanics of the game are out of date. AI is slow and predictable every time.,Game graphics feel like an out of date game ,background setting glitches very often .Also no multiplayer .
4680) I played for 27 hours..,Was the longest 27 hours of my life, 27 hours I will never get back. This game doesn’t have the emotional investment of the first game, neither the writing quality!! The plot doesn’t make any sense. It’s feel like naughty dogs sacrifice the main lead of the first game for LGBTQ+ inclusion. Well, wasn’t a good representation after all. Ellie didn’t have a moral compass what so ever like in the first game, a Big shift I may add. She was the innocent factor in the last of us 2013, now she is just a strong and powerful woman that nothing can stop her killing spree?,2/10 for the polished game and peace.
4681) The plot is absolute nonsense. Dumb af. They've ruined a good game. What a shame. Don't buy it, it's awful. Very poor storyline and I really hated the part, where I had to play for abby
4682) This game is like a big FU to the fans. A Neil Druckmann lookalike spitting on Joel's dead body is a fitting summary of the game. It was made for critics not for the fans of the game.
4683) If you liked the first game, you'll hate this one. If you haven't played the first game then the only reason you might want to play this one is if you're a masochist or if you want to support a really bad game developer that mistreats its fans very badly.
4684) Such a trash game wish I didn't waste my money on this piece of garbage doodoo that's all I have to say
4685) Abby killed Joel, but Ally couldn’t kill Abby..... It’s the same as if John Marston didn’t kill Micah Bell in Red Dead Redemption 2....
4686) As a huge fan of TLoU and someone who identifies as queer, this game is a slap in the face. This game cynically weaponizes gender identity to normalize violence against transnormative and homonormative people. A gross misappropriation of LGBT culture by TERFs masquerading as allies. If Neil Druckmann truly wants to be an ally to LGBT culture and queer normative folk he should resign IMMEDIATELY.
4687) Just **** this word can explain everything you,want about that game,,so yeah don't buy it
4688) trash - do not buy......This game was made for one specific person, anita sarkeesian....
4689) I can't believe how much did you ruin one of my favorite games of all times(the first one) , the story is absolute trash... You wanted to deliver propaganda instead of an actual story and this is the result...
4690) Naughty dogs you have killed and nuked the last of us franchise with this one. Good luck on your next game
4691) Justice For Joel!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
4692) What a let down, shame on naughty dog for this garbage, whoever says that the story is good is a liar
4693) Only the graphics team worked.,I have nothing more to say. The IP of this game is ruined.,The story team was well-received if they just copied the Korean movie 'I Saw The Devil(Angmareul Boatda) ㆍ 2010'. It's the same revenge....
4694) First game was really amazing and the dlc too. But this sequel is a politic propaganda of feminism or some sjw thing that is really cringe.The director's of the game also  lied to us seeing that the trailers.The scenes in game's trailers are deceiving and lie(especially the Joel scenes).Director's are liars.And  game also have  horrible story.Thanks for ruining a perfect story.No one will regard this game as a sequel and will skip.(i really hope)Go spend 60 bucks for a really good dinner,not to this garbage game.
4695) The story si very Bad ,badly structured ,there are notional plot holes ,you dont make any sense
4696) what a joke; 2020 couldn't get any worse, this site does not even allow me to post my reviews
4697) I expected more, the game slid into the abyss .. the story is complete ****
4698) I wish they just stayed with part one as this one ruined the story. This massacred everything good about tlou 1. What a disappointment
4699) Did a terrible job of representing LGBT community.This game is not bad for Joel death, it is bad for sjw things.It is about designing female characters as a male body. Stop representing LGBT. It doesnt worth any ****
4700) I hate all of the game 1- downgraded,2- terrible story,3- boring world,This game kills every thing from the first one
4701) After playing for 2 hrs, ok this game worth a 0, how could they do that... after finish the whole game, XXXX naghty dog.
4702) The problem is that the story makes no sense. The character development we had I with the first part would never have this outcome. Joel would never make a mistake like this. He was a badass, at least give him a noble death. The central of the game was the relationship between Joel and Ellie and right at the beginning, Joel is gone. It's not about the fact that he died. IT'S HOW HE DIED! And let's not forget that the trailer has nothing to do with the actual game scenes! A total ripoff. Naughty Dog is over for me
4703) I am so glad there are honest reviews out there...they saved me 60$.I will not play the game even when the game price drops dramatically.I will not play it even if i get it for free.I'd rather play The Order 1886 again than this piece of long awaited garbage.I am so frustrated that they ruined it...
4704) This is a insulting game on nearly all levels. How can you give this as a sequel compared to the first game which was much loved.
4705) Talk about ruining a game that could’ve been amazing. Just what were naughty dog thinking !?
4706) this could have been a game of the year, and came up with the worst story ever made.
4707) Killing one of the most beloved gaming characters for pure shock value, then going into a quest of revenge killing tons of people along the way just to suddenly decide its bad to kill and let the murderer go is completely idiotic
4708) Rip off of Walking Dead (especially the Negan sensless brutality angle) finally runs out of steam on the one-trick social justice pony it thought was a thoroughbred. Happy to never see another Naughty Dog game after playing just the first hour of this post-modernist torture porn.
4709) a world where women live alone. And grandmothers,Do you want to buy players only with graphics? Well, you did it perfectly, slipped realistic ****
4710) Can’t believe my eyes after so many hours not gettin at least my revenge! Waited six years to learn what happened to my favorite characters and this is what I get?
4711) Hey, if you're looking for graphics, this game is perfect! The problem is we all wanted a good story which this does not provide. SPOILER They killed off Joel in the first hour, Joel dying is not the main problem though, in fact many of us expected it. Its the way he died that just sucked. This man who traveled the country surviving through bullet wounds and putting his life on the line for a 14 year old girl died from a golfclub, thats right, a GOLFCLUB, and not even in a heroic way, just straight up thrown away as a character so that they can go all SJW.
4712) Nothing else to say. F.ck this stupid plot and fu.king stupid characters setting. Naughty Dog u did a great job on lying to fans & players. Burn in hell pendejo
4713) I'm so disappointed, such a great characters and beautiful story from first game. Was not continued in sequel. This game is a torture not fun as it should be. It is hard to not acknowledge the the graphics is beautiful, location's are full different things and details. But for me this is story driven game so if im disappointed about this all other things are not important.
4714) The Worst Sequel of All Time with the Worst Ending of All Time! This Game Destroyed the Whole Legacy that the first the last of us build up. Feminists and LGBT People Ruined a whole franchise. This Game Destroyed everything what the first one made so great!
4715) I want to give -10, but can't,Garbage story,just like the japan ign say it.,Naughy dog build the new character to belittle old character. Ellie kill many people why give up kill abby? Game jusy likr the ****
4716) 2 hours in and i stopped playing because the gameplay is just the same as the first one and secondly the story suck ass.
4717) Story-wise the game is trash. Developers did a great job, and I praise their job. But the story damaged a whole franchise, it's better to consider this non-canon.
4718) Horrible game - only redeeming quality is the graphics. VERY poor story that is full of holes. DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY! They kill any character you cared about in the first game and then force you to play as that murderous character!!!
4719) Ok, So I don't want to say this, but this game is mediocre at best. I used to love all the naughty dog games and I enjoy the Last Of Us in 2013, but I am deeply disappointed by this one. I haven't finished all parts of this game and so far the only good thing I can think about this game is its graphics. The story line is so poorly designed and filled with those political correct craps. I want to remind naughty dogs that we, the players, are here to enjoy the game plays, not listening to those LGBTQ staffs. If I want to learn something politically correct I would go ahead register a social science or gender study class in college. It's not like I hate the LGBTQ groups; I support and understand their needs. However,  I just don't want the gaming industries be an other area filled with these meaningless witch hunts. The plot in this game, at least in my opinion, is not designed for us to enjoy, but a combination of political correctness and logicial confusion in order to show the seemingly support to those people. When I was playing this game (until this period), I always wondering why is Ellie doing something like that?  It's just stupid.,Also, what's more absetting me is all the complements this one got from the gaming critics. All of those 10/10 scores is another example of fake media. Why would you guys give out a full score to a game which is not even fun or enjoyable to play with? I used to think IGN Japan has done something wrong with the 7/10, but know it proves how good and righteousness they are. This game should be a 2/10 instead of any other scores.,In short, I am so disappointed by this game and it not even worth my 7 years of waiting. To anyone who is reading this, this game doesn't worth spending money on, I would rather throw my money in GTA.
4720) if you want to play a narrative game that is heavy on narration and supported by enough gameplay last of us first one works really great in that zone. But last of us 2 didn't do anything which works in the first one. The gameplay is just extended and repetitive nothing new in level design which can give players a unique experience. there are games which can give the player a better stealth experience and the same for shooter games too. Speaking about narration it is soo bad that the makers didn't understand what to do with their characters there are a lot of plot holes There are certain events where I didn't want to go beyond that.,Final Verdict:  The Last of Us Part 2 is not a masterpiece but just a shallow uninspired mediocre game made for only so-called game reviewers to play. Careful when you are buying. That's all!
4721) Terrible storyline, horrible execution. How did naughty dog produce a game this terrible after 7 years? Do not buy...
4722) Although the playability is very good, the plot is too difficult. It also destroys the story and ending of part1. And it has a feeling of reaction.
4723) This game is the reason why no videogame artist should push his agenda in his art. the first game was a masterpiece and the main reason why I and many others liked it is for the relationship between Joel and Ellie, and with Joel dead after the first 3 hours is a real kick in the balls for all last of us fans.
4724) Imagine having great gameplay and graphism even sound, and all that ruined by nonsense political weird story,Why tho ? The first episode i remember  there is no such **** i'm really tired of video that pushing their agenda to promote their fantasy and fetish, this is not entertainement anymore, games are there to evade and escape from reality and thats just so weird to me, 7 years for that sh!t coming from nowhere come on bruh
4725) Fake advertising to sell more copies snowing you that you will play like joel or even do something with him and the company kills hin right from the beginning
4726) First of all I'm not a bot, I love ad support women and LGBTQ community I have good friends who are LGBTQ, also I am very liberal so don't try to diminish and paint my opinion as fake or misplaced because I happen to not like this game. I find it disgusting how the "pro critics" are trying to diminish the opinion of real fans. 20000 fans giving a score of 3.3 is a LOT OF PEOPLE saying Naughty Dog  failed horribly with this game.  I preordered this game and thankfully I saw gameplay from youtubers who got an early copy of the game the day before the release.  I saw the 1st two hours of gameplay, I also saw several hours of play for the mid part of the game and I saw the last hour of it so I know how it all ends. Let me tell you I was, I am devastated by how bad the story is.  I was and I'm so upset. I canceled my preorder.  I am a big fan of naughty dog well I guess I was, I'm incredibly sad to see how Naughty Dog destroyed this franchise and 2 of the most beloved characters in gaming for literally nothing.  How in the world could they think fans of Joel and Ellie would want to play this story.  As someone said I don't have to play the full game or even play it to give a review, the same way that I don't need to eat a sandwich that other people have described in detail and told me it is disgusting to know that the sandwich is bad and I will never eat it.  That's exactly what this game downfall is enough people have played and described it and seen it and told us how bad it is that all you need to do is to just go and see the gameplay in youtube to confirm how bad the story and character choices are.  The story is plain bad and a game like this in which the story and characters is what makes people want to play the game the story is everything.  Fans are so upset the game has a 3.4 out of 10 score in metacritic based on more than 20,000 reviewers and I guarantee you that is not a fake score cause it is real players and fans of this franchise who want no part of this game.   Naughty Dog ruined its most precious franchise, my favorite videogame characters, somehow it seems to me they forgot how much love we TLOU fans have for Joel and Ellie because how in hell you will believe that we will care or have any empathy for anyone who is not Joel and Ellie.  They blew it in an EPIC fashion and they need to acknowledge that they failed the fans and their characters.  Trying to call a 3.3 score in metacritic from more than 20,000 people is not going to unmake the nightmarish reality that you made a huge mistake and need to own need and do much better next time.  These are your fans who spent 5 years waiting for your product and we are pissed and hurt.    I give this game a 0  because I don't want to ever play it to me it doesn't exist because it doesn't hold true to what I and many others believe Joel and Ellie characters and story is.  Ellie and Joel story will always for me will always be just the one in the 1st game.
4727) Probably the most dreary  and boring game I have played. Ridiculous  story with forgettable characters.
4728) Worst story ever. Naughty dog should be ashamed of themselves.very disappointed.
4729) I don’t know why a great character ends like this!!! What are you doing Naughty dog??!
4730) **** leftists agenda. Globalists are pushing it  so hard that you cant already find a good old content without their satanic propaganda.
4731) Bad plot because of lgbt theme. Bad gameplay because of small amount of ammo and many hp at zombies. So many ******g stealth... It is no more shooter it's a horror with shooter mechanics
4732) Big disapointment.,Why play at this game as an erzatz of à survival séries
4733) Just a total mess. Thats enough Naughty Dog. I'll never gonna buy your game again anymore.
4734) The developers and writers took away what we loved the most (father daughter relationship between Joel and Ellie) and made this game full of pure trash and garbage.,Naughty dogs and sony failed to realize that you do not sell games to 100 certain people who represent certain class. You sell to millions of gamers of whom 99.9% are common minded and wanted to see the dad daughter relationship grow. Screw the weak ass lgbtq crap and garbage they put. Must refund.
4735) The fact that they could do my boy Joel like that already makes like a 4/10, and combine that with the horrible story and characters to get a nice 0/10
4736) The game is boring. The first part was much better, such a game Ubisoft for 2-3 years can do, TLOU2 was developed for 7 years, for 7 years it was possible to make the Witcher 4.,,Sony, you've been doing this for 7 years!
4737) Who the F*** thought it’s Ok to do this???,How disappointing, been waiting 7 years for this.
4738) This game was frankly, tedious. Aside from the graphics, the game had no redeeming features.
4739) It’s just a terrible game compared to the first part, and I was simply enraged by how ineptly Joel was killed, as well as the imposition of feminism, tolerance, and much more, 0 out of 10 and that says it all
4740) The story was written by mentally ill, gore loving, sick person. Anyone who enjoys this kind of violent trash, should let his head checked at the nearest hospital.
4741) is this 95 score? seriously?,I can't believe Naughtydog released this, tell me you're lying PLEEEEEEEEEEEASE
4742) The graphics and gameplay is good but there is no big jump in quality between the first and second game except graphics. The story gets progressively worst from the first few hours and not to mention the ending which makes the hours of playing the game worth nothing.
4743) Rot ebal noty dog, sony sosat, witcher 3 best game, and fortnite. nil dracman monkey. LGBT trash, ez bro, ez life
4744) They ruined it. Nothing to say. Naughty dog why. Why did you do that. I hate you guys.
4745) Writing of this game is plainly bad. Some decisions of characters are total nonsense. Game is enforcing some political ideas instead of giving us story.  Save yourself time, money and sanity, do not buy and pretend this game never existed.
4746) I've never been more disappointed in a game before. It doesn't answer anything from the first game and politics feel so forced into this game. At the end of this game you realized the first Last of us means nothing.
4747) Disgusting. ND has lied and manipulated their fans with their marketing strategy, leading us to believe that Joel would play an important role in the game, by showing multiple game footage in the trailer that is actually not in the game.,,This is the most disgraceful thing I've ever seen by a gaming company. ND should be ashamed of themselves and should be sued for that false advertisement. This is the main reason why I give it this score, I was manipulated by being told by the developers that this game would be something that it is not. Here is the complete list of reasons why I gave it a score of 0:,,-> The game not being what ND marketed it as,-> The story seems like a rushed out draft at best, not even making sense on some occasion,-> There are many plot holes in the story,-> Turning the characters we've become attached to in TLOU 1 into idiots,-> The explicit intimate scenes (I don't want to watch sex while playing games, this was absolutely unnecessary),-> Unnecessary d r u g s use scenes,-> The important amount of unnecessary swearing between Dina and Ellie (which takes Ellie's innocence away and make her lot less likable),-> The intense kissing scenes between Ellie and Dina (A game is not the place for that. And I would make the same argument if it was a man and a woman kissing, I just don't want to see that kind of stuff when I'm playing a game),-> The SJW Agenda,,I was so hyped for this game. For 7 years now I've been dreaming about the day this game would come out, I was so hyped and excited for it. ND and Neil Druckman have crushed this hype, and it seem to have been their objective all along, making us hate this game, hate this franchise and hate this company. Well done.,,ND missed a great opportunity of making a masterpiece. Instead, they completely ruined this franchise.
4748) TLOU1 was my favourite game ever. This "game" is an insult to the memory of the first game and is extremely poorly written. Decent enough gameplay but completely butchered by a shocking, nonsensical story riddled with plot holes. To say I was disappointed is a massive understatement.
4749) Biggest disappointment 2020,Every single Aspect that made TLOU 1 was non existing
4750) Ohhh my god , im playing this game around 8-9 hours and already lose the will to continue because i know where is it going. This game is a disaster. No im not a troll or hater just see my review history. This game not a 0 but also no 10 , i rate it 0 to combat fanboy who give this game a 10
4751) Before you disregard my review based on the score, let me explain why it has a big fat Zero. Most of the access media have knelt down for their corporate overlords by giving this a game a 10/10. If they can shill out and influence the sales of TLOU2 by giving it a ten, then us logical, rational and level headed customers are well within our rights to give it a 0. The only people "review bombing" this game are the ones that are supposed to have the interest of the common man at hand.,Neil Druckmann and Anita Sarkeesian have ruined TLOU2. The story is awful and a chore to finish. Gone are the days of writing moving and inspiring stories. This game sacrifices it's greatest character on the SJW altar, just to pander identity/gender/social politics. Well deserving of a 0.
4752) The way they killed Joel is **** unforgivable. People were fans of him, he was my favorite part of the game and you took him out like he was nothing after traveling across an entire country fighting thousands of enemies. Get real, that **** makes no **** sense.
4753) worst game of the year, whoever thinks this game is anywhere near great, i would assume that you haven't played a lot of video games. but i have to say that:,Graphics - 10/10,Gameplay - 6/10 (controls are a little annoying and just wasn't really feeling it),Story - 0/10 (i don't think i have to explain this one,Character Animation & Cinematogrophy - 9/10,,- Since this game is mainly based arround the story & not the gameplay i'd have to give this a 2/10,- Have a good day & don't waste your money on this garbage :)
4754) the homosexual relationship feels forced, I love the love between Adriano and Antinoo but this is too much
4755) Somewhat great graphics and decent gameplay. Too bad the whole game is a loop of actions being taken without the use of common sense. Every time they open their mouths will make you say "but why...?". There is so little cinematics compared to the gameplay. Which there is a lot of it after each cinematic. All the actions people take in the game seem wrong, forced, or very sudden. Making you question how such a chaotic narrative exist. If I have to compare the narrative to something, then it goes somewhat like this "this boy knows the secret formula. He killed david, now we will kill him slowly" then comes another guy "oh well, lets just kill him" only for the first guy to take a 180 turn and say "what? no! we can't kill him! That is wrong!".,,The story or plot feels like it came straight out from the deepest and darkest sections of Fanfiction. Truly, a game that describes 2020 perfectly.
4756) The game really redid me. The game has become **** you still need to play for a woman. Take this **** masterpiece and play yourself. I pass. Who rated this burn in hell
4757) Boring and uninteresting game. The plot is almost absent. I went through the game to the end, but I wish I hadn't wasted my time on this piece.
4758) Lazy, unlikely, meager and miserable plot that completely ignores the previous history of classic characters to focus the story on new ones, and, of course, in praise of the woke and the "progressive" agenda. Sad to see one of the best games of all time having an unfortunate end to this one. I won't even play "The Last of Us 2". Only with the financial loss will the company learn to respect the franchise and especially the players.
4759) I thought that I waited seven years to actually get another masterpiece from ND, but instead, I saw something that destroyed my second favorite game. TLOU is such a beautiful, compelling, and horrifying story that literally broke my heart and mended it at the end. Ellie and Joel's journey was long, brutal, and amazing to experience in the first game and I loved every single moment of it. Now, The Last of Us Part II is nothing but trash and garbage storytelling. Ellie was absolutely not herself in the game, Joel is not himself in the game, and the side characters are boring and useless. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! This is nothing but pandering to SJWs and identity politics and it focuses more on that than anything.
4760) I play video games as a form if escapism from the clown world that is modern day America.  After the Last of Us 2, it is clear that is no longer the case.
4761) Can't give more than a 0 to good graphics and some great animations. The plot is pointless, forced to work with forced characters. The whole game is unnecesary, I'll rather still have my thoughts about what would Joel have done after that first masterpiece. But no, we get horrible character development, stupid moral points on which you are obliged to play with linear characters to show you stuff that you don't even care. Listen, the first game, was a great story, with great moments, cruel at times, beautiful at others, and always respectful to well built characters. This **** all over. And no, people isn't homo-, trans-, YMCA- or whatever-phobic for disliking this game. A bad story, is bad with white males or with transgender and homosexual ones, don't mask it out.
4762) This is an insult to the of the first game. The history is depressive and ridiculous. You play as the killer of Joel and fight against Ellie, only to have the worst ending of all times.... Horrible
4763) Compared to first "The last of us" game, this one absolutely disappointed in every way possible. All that this game has massively improved on are graphic and they way player can alter difficulty of the game to their liking. That's pretty much it. Gameplay, story, characters, enemy AI, infected, puzzels... everything lacks quality.,,It's a solid 4/10 game, maybe a generous 5 at best, however.. considering how bad Naughty Dog treated their employees so that 70% of workers left, considering the abuse of copyrights system on YT, considering how they mislead people with fake teasers/trailers, considering how they ban people on twitter and reddit for memes, considering how they disrespect and spit on their fanbase.,This is a 0/10 game. People should avoid this game and avoid to suppord Naughty Dog at all cost.,,This was supposed to be the game of the year.. but it ended up being a internet meme. Something for real gamers to laugh at.
4764) If you like to feel angry, depressed, betrayed, and disgusted all at the same time for the abhorrent story the wonderful game developers at Naughty Dog (i.e. Neil Druckmann) callously devised to follow the beloved first installment of the Last of Us, then you'll absolutely love this game!,,However, I personally don't like to feel these things when paying for & participating in activities that are supposed to be "fun/enjoyable".,,Good graphics and musical score do little to buffer this dressed-up piece of fecal matter. There just seems to be no rational explanation for how the same director responsible for the incredible Last of Us part 1 could go so incredibly wrong...,,Don't waste your money.
4765) The storytelling is poorly pieced together and uninspired. Also the gameplay is shallow and repetivive. There are better options for gamers in 2020.
4766) TLOU should’ve been a “one-of-a-kind” experience. This second game tries to hard to be like the first one but lacks of emotional moments, interesting situations and the gameplay is overall too similar as the first game.
4767) **** hell I'm so disappointed in the end Holly **** it's so **** c'mon naughty dogs u copy striking ppl just for this ****
4768) this game story is really trash. it didn’t have any nice story. it has only political things
4769) The biggest disappointment of the last ten years and I've always considered myself a Sony fan.  Screenplay of action B film.  Absolutely boring gameplay, 20 hours around you just have an action scene and then you collect raw materials for the next action scene and so on all the time constantly.  The world is nice, but completely empty.  Sony has probably forgotten that in games, only gameplay has artistic value, not money wasted for thousands of different animations in this game.  Whoever made it should leave Sony
4770) Naughty dog team that made meaningless efforts at Neil druckmann's disgusting values.
4771) This game has the worst story telling possible. Please save your money. The characters are dull. They disservice the fans. And ruin the main characters.
4772) I don't enjoy this game.Very disrespectful to the characters and story of the first game.,- Story is disappointing,- Political agenda shown alot like why,-Graphic is good
4773) It's not even a videogame but idiots like Greg will probably buy it anyways.
4774) i was so hyped for this game 20 and something hours later i finished the game and all i can say is this is one of the most disappointing games i have played this year and here why,pros:,- the visuals looks great every detail and everything is just wow,- sound is top notch from the music to the sound of the zombies,- voice acting is really good,-the world building and map design is really up there,cons ( oh boy here we go),- the sheer amount of plot holes is just laughable,- story writing is trash,- forgettable characters,- the way they handled some characters is just ridicules,- AI is still stupid af,- ending was a piece of hot garbage,-antagonist is basically useless and gets away with way to much,- devs basically destroyed everything they built in the previous game,as you see this game is divided into two parts gameplay and story the gameplay of this game improved so much and props to them but the story just took a deep nose dive and ruined the whole franchise and because the story is the important part because this is a story based game the game just fails miserably
4775) How dare you. What's the point of having good graphics if the storyline is garbage? Very disappointed and never again.
4776) Do not listen to to the critics, they have to give good reviews. This game is just to destroy Joel character and literally spits on his dead character in game.
4777) This game is an absolute shocker, for all the people giving this game a 3/10 or 4/10 just because the graphics are good don't, graphics aren't everything and are utterly useless if the story, which is the major foundation of this game is appalling.
4778) This is the worst game in 10 years. Not because of gameplay etc. But because of the fact that naughty dog just f’d the last of us right in front you. And you can’t do anything about it.
4779) Some people argue that the only thing why this game gets butchered is LGBT characters and intolerant and ignorant society, that can't understand the deep meaning and message of this game.,,However, it's not characters itself, but how this games story is done in the core. It's a poor forced representation of vengeance, human violence, unmotivated decisions, gimmicky plot twists, bad character building, and it totally ignores all points which were made in the first game. It's hard to relate yourself to the characters, which your have no information about at all. There's not enough buildup to make players understand what's going on. Some decent, deep and really meaningful character conversations completely ruined by it's placing. Making it seem unnecessary and even ridiculous. Like a different parts of unconnected narrative shuffled and randomly put together. It feels weird.  And that twist for a twist middle game part.. Maybe it would be better to change it vice-versa and start your game with that "twist". Wrap it differently. It would've made more sense in that case.,,It does not matter what Neil Druckmann intended to say, it's what he did. And it seems like a spit in the face of all the fans of the fist game, and even the newer ones. Simply thinking that people won't get the more subtle and realistic approach to storytelling does not itself make it true. Don't treat your audience like idiots. Don't destroy your own characters in a stupid ways, just cause you don't like them or they don't fit your new "brilliant story".,,And that leads us to gameplay, which were "significantly improved since the first game". But it's exactly the same. Sometimes it feels like endless walking simulator with looting and repetitive fights. There's really nothing more to say about. Cope that with bad storytelling and forced character building, and it almost feels like fillers, just to get the important message to "ignorant crowd". But there's no message. Nothing to make conclusion of. Nothing to change your mind. Just some scenes that intended to be shocking one, but again, with all said above it just seems like a bunch of nonsense.,,The only things that shines in that game is scenery, animations and characters look. Beautiful landscapes, good visual design. Graphics seems good, though it's mostly art style. No really big technical leaps or something outstanding. It's still blurry and grainy, but has decent lights, overall look quality and maintains 30 fps almost everywhere, which is rare for most of the console games. Seems that the team knows how to work with provided resources.,,With all that said, i won't recommend this game for entertainment nor for developing your point of view. It's kinda sad that so many hard work of talented people could be ruined by one persons vision. At least it did for me.,,TL/DR:,So, what do we have in the end? Poor storytelling, bad twists, lack of character motivation, and their bad development. Weird resentment to the first game and it's values. Claiming to have a message, but instead providing childish, hysterical, flat and oversimplified representation of modern world view. Beautiful scenery and design. Good sound. Ok graphics, good characters visuals, animations and nice console performance.
4780) Not reviewer bombing, I just genuinely didn't like this game at all. The writing was **** the virtue-signaling wasn't asked for, not pleased about the misleading trailer. Additionally, I fell asleep in the middle of the game, which has only happened once, when I played Quantum break. This game is just honestly enjoyable.,,I can only imagine how the studio feels knowing they spent all most 10 years on a game for people to not like it.
4781) Sorry but the plot is so unnecessary they should  kill him in the first game, no need for a second game. A perfect Franchise destroyed within minutes.. would never touch it again
4782) Visually a masterpiece, and level design is superb.,However this is thwarted by the worst writing I've seen in a games storyline ever.,Neil Druckmann said it himself ''this isn't a fun game''.,What kind of goal is that to have for a beloved franchise sequel.
4783) I can't believe that the people behind this game are the same behind the first one, I mean seriously WTF??
4784) Watch a full play through of this and have to say that I am very dissapointed . The SJW in your face woke crowd appeasing runined the sequal instead of coming up with something that was as good as the last one they decide to go the SJW route because they feel that the world should accept whatever SWS put out . I hope the enjoy the rating bombs they are getting cause honestly the storyline is pure garbage
4785) Absolute garbage ..,They ruined every thing we loved about the 1st game and for what ??
4786) This is psuedo storytelling. It tries to play with the idea of subjective morality and completely fails. It didn't understand the strong foundation of the relationships established from part one. Tried to be politically correct and culturally liberal but it was a major distraction and annoyance from the plot. If there were rules in storytelling it would be to never allow the audience to feel detached from the narrative and it broke this rule so many times in favor of weak plot points that should have been by products of the overall theme.,It shows how lacking the industry is with quality storytellers. Inspired me to write stories because even the small notes I write down from the ideas I had are 100x better than this lame and weak attempt at being "progressive".
4787) Revenge story where you don't get to revenge. You kill everybody, except for people who actually wronged you. They get free pass in the name of breaking the violence circle. It's like poetry written by 'roid junkie. Waste of time.
4788) Terrible story writing here. Literally destroyed everything that the first game set up.
4789) A total piece of shxt. Trying to degrade the beloved characters in the first game. Don't buy it if you haven't done so.
4790) This storyline is pathetic. Character development went downhill more than I ever imagined. This whole thing seems so hypocritical I can hardly find any words to describe it precisely. I played for hours and without much sleep to find *something* in this, but it´s just a slap in ever fan´s face.,,The way this game is set up is just beyond disgusting. Shame on you, Naughty Dog, shame on you. You broke my heart.
4791) Why did they do that kills off Joel really.,What have they done.I will never trust Naughty Dog never again.
4792) Absolute garbage. To score point in shock value, they kill a beloved character for a flimsy excuse of a reason. That reason stems on a choice made in the prequel. There are players who chose the other route, and they still have to experience this atrocity of a game. This is not “gamer entitlement”. This is genuine garbage.
4793) If you hold the first game dearly to you and consider it one of the best of all time DO Not play this game as it will ruin it for you.
4794) Worst PS4 game story. Graphics are decent, not revolutionary as people are talking. Red dead 2's graphics were better, atleast for me. It's worse than trash.
4795) Truly a horrible direction to go with the story and pacing of the game, you have effectively spit in the faces of your audience and on a beloved character.  If you want to kill a character like Joel you have to earn it with your storytelling.  The way that it is done here is completely ineffective.  If you want to introduce a new character that's fine, but don't have the new character kill a fan-favorite character from the first game in the first two hours of the game with no background on who the person is and why she wants to kill him.  This cannot be done after the fact it's not clever, it's lazy writing.,Furthermore, to force the audience to play as the new character after an event like this eliminates all motivation (for me at least) to continue playing your game.  I will be refunding this as soon as possible. Shame on you Neil Druckmann and shame on you Naughtydog for allowing a dumpster fire like this to come to market after such a long wait and at a $60 price tag.
4796) One of the worst games i have ever witnessed.They ruined the characters of the first game, made a horrible, hated character playable for diversity reasons killed a beloved character with a horrible way in the first few hours of gameplay and in the end we have a game about revenge but you decide the last minutes  'Mehhhh revenge don t worth it even if you ate my fingers hannibal and killed my father figure ' plus THAT SEX SCENE.,,SHAME ON PPL DEFENDING THIS.
4797) Full feminist agenda, not a game, only propaganda. Next time do a game to enjoy playing
4798) So disappointed about the story :s The screenwriter killed the game, I hope he will never be making game again... Please, fire this guy out from ND, you ruined my day, my beloved Joel. I don't understand the gap between the press and people. 95 vs 3.4... What is happening ┗|｀O′|┛,Sorry for my poor english ...(*￣０￣)ノ
4799) TLOU made me remember why I loved games and gaming.,,Alternatively, TLOU2 is an outdated idea carried over from when the game was announced in December of 2016 and no doubt the agendas that were being heavily pushed in 2015 and on. The difference is, while this game was being made, we've seen people are fed up with being talked down to and told what to like and if you don't like it, you're automatically and "-ist" or a "-phobe".  It was too late for their garbage rhetoric to change and/or Druckmann was in it for the end game. Although, ND and Sony no doubt still want to turn a profit, so they lied and connived this b.s. game and hid stuff and changed things for trailers to sucker in the old fans. Good on you, you suckered a lot of fans. But in the long run, will it really be worth it?,I'll NEVER buy a ND game again. I won't be buying a PS5. I won't ever buy another Sony product in general, because they attacked youtubers livelihood and during a pandemic of all times!! That's some bad will you can never erase.,And if this is one of the "exclusives" on PS, WGAF!?,I'm only annoyed I'll lose all my GTA V progress and hundreds of dollars on megalodon cards I've bought. MY PS Plus membership ends at the end of this year and that's when I'll say goodbye to Playstation. I'm disgusted with you as a company. The game was bad enough, but I could have wrote it off to Druckmann and maybe still boycotted ND. But after what Sony pulled on behalf of this **** game, I'm out! And unlike Ellie, I believe in 2 eyes for an eye and then I'll cut your throat!,,I still say Druckmann leaked this himself because after firing testers and going home and looking at his Manny face in the mirror, he realized how epicly he f'ed up and was going to have to answer for it shortly. He couldn't keep delaying the game for no reason, so he leaked it. Figured he could hide behind the umbrella of anyone who doesn't like this game is an "-ist" or a "-phobe", but when people weren't buying that tired b.s. argument, he had no recourse and couldn't be the martyr he wanted to be.,,I also believe his goal was to release this Father's Day weekend. Down with the patriarchy and the toxic white males and at the hands of their own tool of "privilege", a golf club. Neil showing us young girls don't need toxic male fathers or father figures in their lives! Bravo, Neil! Stunning and brave! 10/101!
4800) Instead of playing it, it's better to indulge in hanging out between your legs!
4801) this wast of time money and mantel power  I can't classify it as a game .. single handedly destroyed the legacy  of the first THE LAST OF US and the reputation  naughty dog had, hell it makes the greedy ba*ard at EA  looks as angels compared to them
4802) Piece of **** Please don't buy it. Leave Joel and Ellie on the Last of Us part 1
4803) They saved me 60 bucks but wasted 7 years of waiting with this sjw propaganda. Ruined it for me and I hope the ones to blame will never work a day in their life in this industry. Don't buy....at least wait to pirate.
4804) WHY IM PLAYING WİTH THE GIRL WHO KILLED JOEL!!!,This game have good gameplay but ı love the last of us with joel :(
4805) It looks amazing. One of the best looking games I’ve seen but that’s where it ends. If you’re a fan of the first game don’t bother with this game.
4806) Complete disaster, the worst, disappointing, wast of time, what happend in this game is unacceptable..
4807) Absolutely horrendous plot. I cannot believe how poorly it was written. Absolutely no words other than DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY ON THIS PIECE OF **** GAME.
4808) Against the background of the first part it looks like a spit in the face of fans.
4809) **** game from the start to the end what does this story mean what happens to the cure what happened to other stuff it is way of the topic its 20 years after the end of humanity wtf is this stuiped story for a game to be the best game of the year it should at least have the second **** story not the ****iest one
4810) Worst game ever made! The game is a joke. All real The Last of Us fans will hate this bad game.
4811) It looks and sounds great. Graphics and sound team are on point for this. That's about it. The demand for this sequel came from the existence of Joel and Ellie. That's it. To kill and demonize those very characters is already pushing it, but to try and supplement that with a bunch of woke garbage is so unbelievably stupid that I have to wonder if this is a collective effort by disgruntled employees to sabotage ND. Please don't buy this game. Watch a playthrough on YouTube if you must, but instead, I will recommend that you invest your time in quite literally ANY OTHER SONY EXCLUSIVE. This is an abomination, and I can't believe we've waited seven years for this.
4812) Only a few hours into the game and already disappointed at how laughably bad the writing is in this game. Not to mention the trailer literally teases the audience that Joel is a major part of the game. Nope. Dead in the first hour. I just want to forget this game.
4813) Story 0/10 - None lovable characters.,Game-play - 0/10 Story killed the game-played for me.,Replay-ability - NONE.,Кусок СЖВ говна
4814) End is ridiculous, all for nothing. Kills many people to exact revenge in end but then doesn't because a flashback of her killer father figure playing a guitar suddenly gives her a conscience.
4815) The worst story I've ever seen in a video game. Destroyed what made part 1 great. ND set out in part 2 to force inclusion and alphabet identity politics upon fans of the 1st one. Gamers want to play games they don't care about that bs. Graphics are amazing though ND really lost what made the studio great when Amy and Bruce left. Druckmann and Gross need to be fired asap by Sony. Reviewer's are an even bigger joke, very few of them are unbiased when they're getting early copies and perks from studios. Check out skillups 25 minute review if u want an unbiased perspective of all that's wrong with this game.,-----SPOILERS-----,Writing an plot are kindergarten level. Joel saves the new ? Character Abby. Him and his brother then proceed to tell them their names and where they're staying lol.,The new strong ? character brutally kills Joel then they force u to play as the new ? character for around 10 hours. Don't worry he or she has a fully stocked 24 hr fitness and bigger muscles than any of the males in the game.,They then force to try to be sympathetic with Abby as u save children/relive good memories of her crazy surgeon father that was wanting to dissect Ellie. I thought the decision to force players to play as the character that kills the most beloved character of the PS4 gen was the dumbest I'd seen, but it gets worse.,There's a weird sex scene involving Abby and her boyfriend, which didn't need to be shown and afterwards I'm sure most players will be believe it's a man. There's Lev, played by real life trans person, that's trans in the game that kills her own mother lol. This game is all about forced inclusion and they wouldn't dare kill off any of the alphabet characters lol.,I'll skip a bunch of garbage and get to the end. Ellie tracks down Abby to get revenge for Joel. She finds her/him strung up and instead of killing her let's her down for a boss fight. Abby somehow managed to bite off two of Ellie's fingers. Yeah he or she is like the terminator with a Rottweiler jaw lol. Ellie then has her almost dead, but sees a flashback of Joel and let's her go lmao. So she kills hundreds of people to get revenge, pregnant women, probably kids too and let's the main villain go. ND should have a script at the end that says no trans or lesbian characters or people were killed during the making/playing of this game. ND pulled one of the worst bait and switches in recent entertainment. They'll still a lot of copies the first month, hopefully word of mouth will kill it off. They sold around 20 million of part 1. This will be a standalone game with a patch on ps5, so they're gonna feel the lack of 2 sku sales. GameStop be ready because you're about to be flooded with trade ins of this garbage game
4816) Don’t believe the positive reviews and don’t waste 60$ on this garbage **** story u basically play 30 hours or so for nothing and also naughty dog I won’t ever support or buy anymore of your game for what you did to this franchise
4817) What? I dont like feminism in this game. The first part was cooleer. i think, we dont deserve this ****
4818) I'm so disappointed there's no big improvement here no good story and no more than improve the first one and break the story
4819) Dumb game. Really dumb game that panders and plays with emotion but with zero gain from the story. Clunky controls and overused mechanics
4820) I was not able to sleep yesterday...I wasted ₹4000 on a really really bad game. The game's visuals and gameplay is outstanding but the story makes me go mad. I didn't know any spoilers about the game. Excited. Hyped. Thank God I got the physical disk. I am going to sell it but I really feel bad for the one buying the disk. I will say that person that the game was TRASH before handing it to him.
4821) We waited all those years to watch some gays ruin our beloved characters? The developers need to apologize publicly
4822) The gameplay has not changed compared to the first (which was already technically outdated in 2013).,A tasteless story and an obsolete and predictable atmosphere.,Totally forced LGBT propaganda in addition to being unrealistic dubbing of a transexual character by a woman when the voice is very different in reality.
4823) The Story is a dumbsterfire and destroyed the complete experience for me. At least the game looks really good. Still a 2
4824) The gameplay and mechanics are largely unchanged from the 1st installment being serviceable but basic.,This wasn't as much of an issue then because the 1st was carried by the strength of its narrative but there's no such redeeming quality here.,The leaks were true and there are as badd as purported.
4825) An absolute dumpster fire, the game went way off track from what I’ve seen and heard about it. I will not be purchasing such nonsense.
4826) Have to play the most unlike able charcter and boring Wierd story and to much gay porn
4827) At first I refused to believe it, I thought it couldn't be as bad as they said... I was a fool. All the leaks are true, this game got reduced to a propaganda tool. I don't think you can even call it a ,,game" anymore.
4828) This is a very very bad sequel to a game I love and adore. I loved the first game to death dude. This game disrespected all the characters killed the best characters, and in the end, the main character doesn't even kill the villain! like what was the **** point of this man?
4829) Neil druckmann has ruined a series with terrible writing and a plot that couldve been done better by kids. He also pushes a political agenda and transgender sex scenes that leave you disgusted and question why a medium based on escapism would include this garbage.,Tlou2 diminishes every likable trait the characters you loved from the first game and leaves you with a sour feeling once you finish it.
4830) Just go back play part 1 and forget this trash part 2. I feel like Neil Drakman is putting his shiit in the spoon and force us to eat it.
4831) What a bad game, no wonder that every streamer wants to speedrun one tap.  Cant wait to refund this pos movie that masquerades as a game.
4832) It is not just the problem about the story but also the game experience so the mark is it
4833) The last of us 2 = gay simulator,First off, critics are useless. Nobody should ever listen to them ever again, they've proven to me that they are not to be trusted. on to the review:
4834) A spit in the face of the original. Nonsensical narrative and a total disregard for beloved characters, how did this make it to print?
4835) Are you kidding me???? This is not a sequel of The Last Of Us 1.,The story ruined everything.,The Last Of Us 2 ruined The Last Of Us 1, too.,It's deceiving us who played The Last Of Us 1.,I don't want to see The Last Of Us 2 anymore.,Now, I don't remember 'THE LAST OF US 2' anymore.,And so you guys, too. NAUGHTY DOG
4836) Buy the game only if you want to see that, how a serie can ****  own legacy,,There was a good story ,with this game  they turned it teenager drama and there  is not  only one drama queen you getting 2 for bonus torture :)) this game is joke. bad one..,graphics are good ; but only graphics are not the reason for playing a game and only the graphics can not create good game . where is the fun elements ? and where is the elements or chracters which one make succesfull the first game. this game is totally SCAM.
4837) This is, by far, the worst game that I have EVER played.,Let this statement sink in.,,I have been playing video games for over a decade now. PlayStation 1, PlayStation 2, GameBoy, N64 up to this date. It is mind-blowing because I never felt the urge to create an account just to rate a game bad. I thought that everything has it's own reasons, but this game is different.,,While TLOU1 is a masterpiece by itself with incredible storytelling, great character development, and an emotional connection, TLOU2 became like GoT Season 8. Something that should have NEVER existed like that in the first place.,,If I wanted to play revenge with **** storytelling, I would've played GTA Online because no story is better than this piece of garbage. They not only killed Joel "just like that" with an absolutely trash story leading up to that, they also turned a great character like Ellie into a one-dimensional revenge-seeking character that can't be seen as anything else but that.,,The most ridiculous part are the "journalists" that are rating this game as an absolutely masterpiece. It is an absolute dumpster fire and it shows what's wrong with gaming journalism. Unreliability.,,There has been a Korean streamer who's reaction sums up the game perfectly. He put the disc out, got a scissor, and just cut the disc. This is TLOU2.
4838) spoiler warned us！but few of us listened.this game is base on story. the dead of joel doesnt make fking sense，fk this story, fk the director
4839) I really enjoyed the bond between Joel and Ellie in the first game and the ending was great, this game really angered and disappointed me since Joel just turns into a minor character and gets killed by Abby.,Naughty Dog could have made the story more interesting since they had potential but they just ruined what made the first game amazing in the first place. And Ellie doesn't even kill Abby, like what?,Abby's father, the surgeon was just one of the dozens of NPC's you killed in the first game, so unimportant they even got his skin tone wrong. Real bad writing Neil. The critic reviews are terrible btw.
4840) ok so that damn shehulk kill joe, ellie go to revenge.. she goes through the country, kill a lot of people, infected, animal. and WHEN SHE FINALLY MET THAT **** she decide that revenge iss bad.,so the 1st one is about ellie and joel, a story about dadd and daughter.,2nd iss about what? i dont even know.
4841) that goes to show Graphics aren't everything.,Story 1/10,Game-play - 6/10,Graphics - 9/10
4842) Good graphics and gameplay ruined by the worst story in the history of video-games.  A lot of games look great these days.  Means nothing if the story is utter ****
4843) Honestly. I have no words for what I’ve just played. Disgraceful writing and downright disrespectful to the characters we love. This is just wrong.
4844) this game can only be described as a bruh moment. I want to dialate myself off a bridge
4845) Worst story and characters and regular graphics............................
4846) Too much jumping. Not enough ammo. What is this **** mario. Quit playing an hour in.
4847) Thoroughly disappointed with the story. The IGN Japan got it right "uninteresting new characters burden the story, making Ellie's journey feel conventional and not nearly as captivating as the original."
4848) Generic second class political plot written by a white knight. Graphics with awful bugs. Disappointing as hell.
4849) What about some hui v jope? Mmm seax or six? Yeas eight, I don't know, I am only understand
4850) More druck trash. Dull and repetitive "gameplay" with no interactivity. An equally dull story with stiff characters.
4851) Really **** game overpriced and unplayable + leftist SJW propaganda, really bad i dont recommend
4852) The disrespect of joel was bad but this was a nice tiger woods pga tour 2020 game
4853) Jesus I couldn’t even finish it. How did they manage to destroy a game like this. So upset with it.
4854) I loved TLOU1 but number 2 is pure trash. Do not buy this game. Its just a disgrace to see the legacy of the first game destroyed in such a way.. Im so disappointed. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. Save your money, is a story driven game with NO story,
4855) A terrible sequel. Rubbish story, boring politically correct drivel. People just want to play a zombie game and not be force fed rubbish. Killing off Joel is retarded. Massive fail. Change your tune naughty dog or fail
4856) Couldn't complete this game because of how bad it is! Save your money!!!!!!!
4857) Plain bad, do not waste your money on this, plenty of real games in the market.
4858) It's a shame how you turn this game into a  tool of propaganda. Your game is good only for critics ,not players .There is weak,boring ,uninteresting and garbage storyline full of propaganda.,Only graphics are good , but certainly not the best.,This game is such a waste of time.,Shame on you Naughty Dog!!
4859) how dare you make this garbage ? how dare you disrespect our beloved characters? why you ruined the game ? i will never buy anything from naughty dog ! everrrr !
4860) This is an insult to the fanbase they destroyed the last of us for the SJW.,All these years of waiting have been for nothing but disappointment.
4861) I trully wasnt expecting such a backlash from users. This is the best game of this genre. The graphics are smooth, especially the environments, characters and transitions between cutscenes and the gameplay. The acting is superb. The plot twists and character depth are worthy of the best HBO show. I was transported and impressed by this post apocalyptic world. Masterpiece of gaming.
4862) Naughty dog has chose political correctness over the games story integrity and it has ruined the relationship between Joel and ellie
4863) Naughty dog should be make a story that is so naive , after we waited for 4 years since the first trailer we receive this horrible game
4864) Honestly please save your $60 of your hard earned money or spend it on another game with a better story, after completing this game, you will feel so empty because nothing positive happens to anyone and it feels that all the hard work you’ve done was kind of for nothing. A game that lacks a good story lax play ability.
4865) After everything I heard such as the leaks and the TERRIBLE a story choices, I decided to by the game anyway.,I was even more disappointed than I thought I was going to be.,The game (which is supposed to be story based) has an ABYSMAL story, it completely ruins all the hopes people left the last game with. The fact that these ‘critics’ are rating this game at 90-100 is just plain wrong... this is not the ‘best game of the generation’, this is a sick joke. The only reason these critics would rate this game so highly is either they’ve been paid to say it or it pushes their agenda (which this game loves to force in the players face), top this off with clunky controls, mediocre gameplay and absolutely no redeeming features or anything that makes this game unique and you have the most overrated game of our generation.
4866) Should not have done that. They should not have done it like that. What you want me to spend money on this? How crazy do i seem to you?
4867) that was an absolute dog **** I was super excited for this game and this is what I got absolute trash I want my money back **** dog (I'm so disappointed)
4868) They ruin the legend of this masterpiece.im very sad.they erase all the beautiful memories
4869) This game ruin my life. all about 10 hr of playing this game hurt my mind so much
4870) No spoilers.,This game falls short of being a worthy successor to the original. I am not a fan of the “heroes” and “villains”. The new additions to the series are hard to enjoy and the story is almost pointless. The game also is really short. Much shorter than Part 1 and is way less fun to play. Many scenes and “plot points” are hard to watch and made it hard to finish after a particular scene, I really didn’t want to see any more.,I wouldn’t play it. The series should have been just Part 1 as the only part.
4871) What a shame...,You had gold in your hands with TLU1  and you did this.,No respect for the story, for the characters and for the players. Don't waste your money and your time with this disappointment.,What a shame...
4872) You Get What You **** Deserve,-Joker,This franchise is all about the story. Without the story the game means nothing. This game does have great visuals and great gameplay, but the main focus needs to be the story.
4873) Just no. You can't push something we don't like and act like we have to. Good graphics and music yet story is really bad. Maybe my expectations were too high but i certainly didn't expect this
4874) I didn't sell PS4 just to play this game!!! And the disappointment I ended with, just cannot be expressed.
4875) Why kill heros like animals...it doesn't have a good story and it has a bad finished and sadly story
4876) So i have no idea what to say but i want to try.  "in just a few hours we have almost DOUBLE the number of user reviews for #TheLastofUsPartII than the first game received in seven years. Love that passion!" Are u serious man? What passion? Why do u devalue opinion of fans? Do u really think that studio is independent of players??? They pay for this!!! Pay!,Studio is nothing without love and interest of players. It is just economically profitable.,Thanks
4877) I want to thanks the leaker  ！,I give up buying this game！,I am extremely disappointed with the naughty dog！
4878) Am I out of touch? No, it's the hundreds of thousands of fans and end-users that are wrong.
4879) If you read the leaks and thought they were bad - don't buy this game. Actually, even if you avoided the leaks: don't buy this game. It's not worth it. Spend it on something fun, because this game's only fun parts are rare.
4880) The most stupid sequel of the legendary franchise for the all time. Absolutely nothing new.
4881) I was waiting for this game to come out and I was waiting to know what's gonna happen next, now I feel so disappointed to see the bad writing and how bad the acting is. some people who worked on this tried to manipulate people's opinions by saying "be open minded when you play our game".
4882) It was so hard to do it that terribly bad. Congratulations for doing the biggest disappointment on PS4 most anticipated game. Keep going putting politics in videogames, you are doing it fine.
4883) This is the worst exclusive game ever had on earth have been made.,Naughty dog had end so long ago. (Most of creative and talented staff are left the company.) And this is How people with creative skill, without talented can do.,I will not pre-order or buy any game from this company anymore. I swear.
4884) Too Violent. Poor pacing, terrible story. Gameplay needs smoothing out. Been waiting so long for this game, can't believe how bad the final product is. I think things just went bad in the pre-production stage. The first game was violent but this pushes it beyond my acceptable taste threshold. The characters are just not as likeable and their motivations not as strong or compelling as the original.
4885) Don't waste your money on this game or this company. And especially don't get pre orders from Naughty Dog anymore. I won't be making that mistake again
4886) Disgusting story, no amount of good graphics and music could save this train wreck of a game.
4887) The story doesn't make sense i thought Ellie is seeking for revenge but she didn't kill Abby i thought it was revenge?
4888) So let me get this straight, we waited 7 years for this game expecting the best addition,To the first game.,What we were given was a lop of **** storyline good graphics ill give you that, but overall killing joel in the fashion you did and letting abby go is completely **** stupid.,You basically ruined the whole series by doing that, 7 years has been wasted.
4889) The poorest scenario I've ever seen.,Game about minorities for minorities, as political as it only could be.,Peace of **** literally.
4890) That sex scene is disgusting.,Ellie is small no one ever believed she's able do such a battles with bigger characters.
4891) The only thing this game achieved is making me create an account here.,The story(so literally the whole point of single player game) is trash. I don't know who approved it and I know I'll be attacked by soyboys and SJWs, but this is what reviews are for.,Devs leaked ENTIRE STORY months before release. Most fans didn't like it, what do devs do? Fix it? Take advice from people that are actually gonna play the game? Nope, blame it on homophobia and release it as it is and hope for idiots to buy a bad game because it has homosexual and trans characters in it which is pretty ironic because people who scream the most about it are the most responsible for it. No, we do not care that Ellie is a lesbian. No, we do not care that a dude decided that he feels like a woman. We care about the story and the story here was sacrificed to make a "look here's the story of a lesbian and a pregnant jewish lesbian and then trans woman who isn't killed by angry lesbian because plot armor and then stuff happens".,To this point I thought that new trilogy of SW was bad. Congratulations you're now #1 in bad storytelling.,,Tho Ellie's VA was a good choice. Too bad she had a bad script xD
4892) Wtf is sooo baaad and for guy ?????? I heating guy No one need play game in the store guys itz so bad
4893) This is the first time i ever made any  ducking review but after waiting all these years i just **** cant the story based characters based what is this american woke **** u gone in where is even the storyline at this game idk anymore
4894) Hot trash!! Worst sequal to a game ever.if you're reading this please don't waste your money and read the story and understand about it yourself.hate it
4895) The developers showed a middle finger to the whole community by killing Joel and at letting that b**ch Abby go at the end. This is pure example how to kill a good franchise. All you need is story that is completely f**ked up.
4896) The Last of Us was all about the story and characters. Sure, nice visuals help, but are not the main reason people loved the game. This... in terms of gameplay is the same, technical aspects are of course better, but forget about the story. There is nothing to like. They ruined memories of lovable characters, created new that you will not care about or just hate instead and after all these years of waiting and now playing for long hours all you get is regret.
4897) Wow. I loved the first one and the gameplay is fine but the story (the mainappeal of the first one) is so stupid and pretentious I can't get over it. I f this is art me **** against a wall is art too. Everything is art! Please go **** yourself Naughty Dog!
4898) Complete and utter trash, waste of my money. It felt as if someone was trying to shove their belief system down my throat the entire game. Don't be stupid and waste your money as I did. I love Naughty Dog, I always thought they made incredible games from Crash Bandicoot to Uncharted but this was just awful, this was simply dreadful. I'd expect this low level of game-making from Activision, not Naughty Dog! Whoever made this game needs to get fired immediately. No respect.
4899) Very bad game. Poor narrative. Forced inclusion. Bad boss fights. Why they do that?
4900) To keep it simple, everything is bad besides the graphics. Story is the worst part of this game, and spoils everything the first game set up.
4901) poor and mediocre history, disrespect for the first game,  story killed the game-played for me
4902) The very weak story and thier orienation changed because of the agenda I want to vomit from bad conversations
4903) Money wasted. The story sucks. Probably not going to buy any more Naughty Dog games. I had big hope for this game but it totally let me down
4904) The story like a **** the review say the game good.wtf.If not the first game like this no one would play it.mother ****
4905) Visuals don’t cover a ruined story. Loved the first game and I was so excited, but now I am just sad, mad and completely dissapointend.
4906) I have no words. This game, its plot, and the eay it ruins the experience and memory of the first game is way too disappointing.,Joel's death, Ellie's decision of letting Abby go and losing everything, Abby's gay intercourse scene that we were forced to watch, make it possibly the worst gamr I have ever seen
4907) Game will leave you totally unsatisfying. Deceitful marketing by Naughty Dog. Story is really Pissed Off.!!!,The entire plot make no sense.,In first 2 hours Joel is brutally killed by a merciless character (Abby). But then she would leaves his brother and Ellie (one who cares deeply for Joel) alive.,The entire plot becomes Ellie's Revenge Journey, Ellie kills lot of people brutally to reach out Abby.,Finally when she finds her in end, she lets her go. Yeah just like that. Note to mention Abby kills Joel, Tommy, cuts off Ellie's finger(she couldn't play Joel's guitar properly),Last of Us 2 also teases you with Joel's cut scenes during the game. I mean Neil ****
4908) It's ma'am! *Bludgeons you to death*,ChrIsTiAns aRe BaD!!1!,This chick looks like he is 6'6 and lives off pre-workout and whey protein.
4909) This game is hot trash, and absolute and complete disaster in every way possible. If you value your time and money, please avoid it at all costs.
4910) I can't believe Naughty Dog really went and put all of the first game's success and value in the bin just to please SJWs. Unbelievable. Before you criticize people and call them out for being homophohic, remind yourself of the fact that Ellie was already gay in TLoU:LB and nobody was mad. But adding a transgender character just for the sake of adding an LGBTQ representitive is just dumb. Abby's addition to the story, her motives are so bland and also her reactions to events, her words, her actions, they all feel so extremely robotic and emotionless snd she really does not add a SINGLE THING to the story. Unbelievable. The only good thing about this game is it's flawless graphics and engine. The gameplay surely feels amazing but it is nowhere near enough to cover up the blasphemy of the story. Honestly, save yourself a couple byuvks and go enjoy a fresh kinty lemonade in this hot weather. Waayyyy more enjoyable than this heap of hot garbage.
4911) Bad story.  Propaganda. Horrible director work.,A Joke to the writers of the first game should be deleted and forgotten since it brings no good to the story of the Last of Us.
4912) Technical brilliance means nothing with an inane storyline. TLOU was epic. TLOU2 is ****
4913) This game ıs awful. I mean you are going all of that way for getting revenge of joel and you just don't kıll who kıll joel in front of you. wtf dude
4914) The story is absolutely garbage demonizes Joel makes him look bad also adding new unlovable characters and no one gives a **** about and the ending is Truly underwhelming and not worth paying full price. Neil **** this one up
4915) they killed the story with these new ideas..,the gameplay pretty same..,the shooting even worst then the last of us 1
4916) Spineless corrupt critics got paid off to leave positive reviews and metacritic is deleting negative reviews. Sony allows a full sex scene in this while censoring bikinis in japanese games because they are racist. This game suck. My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined.
4917) Probably the worst game I've ever played in my entire life; what a let down from a great first game.
4918) This game is trash, I couldn't honestly recommend it to anyone. Purchase at your own risk.
4919) It's a propaganda disguised as a game. Bland characters and bad history. Western games are dead if follow this path.
4920) Terrible story giving no respect to the characters Joel’s death was shameful and abby overall is a poorly made character made only to push sjw ideology
4921) I am homosexual but in this game they are forcing their political agenda way too much instead of improving gameplay or story. It‘s unpleasent.
4922) What were they thinking the first game was amazing but this one was written by a 12 year old. This game is nothing but a waste of money and time. Do not pay attention to the critics review they were all paid to day good things about this pos game. We all wait a long time for Neil just to take us out back and put us down and take our money.
4923) Don’t bother playing unless you want to see both of your favorite characters get ruined. Beautiful game but the love for the story was ripped away from the first game and really left me wondering, why am I playing this? It doesn’t feel good and it’s just a sad experience something people really don’t need right now.
4924) Trash story , who the hell wrote this **** story ,   they didn't deserved that
4925) Playing this game brings me pain. They butchered the story line, even though the gameplay is good, I don’t want to play those characters nor be part of this game. I could list a thousand reasons why this game is worthless, but I won’t waste my time on it, just like the developers don’t care about us we shouldn’t care about their products. DO NOT BUY IT.
4926) This game is just terrible! A huge disappointment...Don't waste your money on this.
4927) The game story is not compelling and undeserving for the characters and story line. The graphic and game play  is refined and smooth yet the double censorship of nudity is not fair by Sony. Naughty dog who actual work for the game is respected. I give the game play and graphic is 10/10 but the story line is a 0 for me. it damages its purpose of trying to discuss the  glaring issues in the world but only satisfying one's ego. I wasted my money but the I felt a bit compensated due to the music, game play and actor.s the writer deviated and destroyed the once good story. Please, stop wasting time and money for such a pathetic excuse of a game.
4928) I'm rating this after just playing 2 hours, graphics and combat great. What a disaster of a story, shouldn't have done that. First game was great, they destroyed that story in this.
4929) this is garbage , dont bother really really bad game,dont ever ever ever ever buy this game
4930) Just made an account to say that this story is trash. Graphics were fine at least.
4931) I am a huge fans of TLOU 1 and had a deep positive image of Ellie. But this episode really makes me disgusted. Inserting Abby as a new character destroyed the whole series. Ending was also confusing.
4932) Pure propaganda. I bet the original developers are cutting their balls right now because they threw their game to **** just for marketing reasons. Hey Sherlock! Your public does not want this!
4933) I am a story-driven type of player and not really about gameplay soo much as long it's playable.. and I think the storytelling is kinda a joke and disgrace to the fan-base.
4934) THIS GAME IS CREATED FOR HIS OWN FANTASIES AND PLEASURE. NOT FOR AUDIENCE. IT IS A POLITICAL ACT, NOT A GAME. IT MUST BE REMOVED FROM EARTH FOR GOOD. HE DESTROYED A MASTERPIECE THAT WAS WRITTEN BY AN AMAZING CLEVER WOMAN, NOT IT IS DESTRYOED BY A LGBT MEMBER TO MAKE PROPAGANDA. CALL ME TRANSPHOBIC OR NOT A REAL FAN I DO NOT CARE EVEN IF I AM NONE OF THEM. BUT I WILL ACCEPT IF SOMEONE TELLS ME, IT WILL BE WITH MY HONOR FOREVER. 010
4935) this game is pushing a Liberal agenda and people don't like it. Expecting people to like this was a brave move, but a stupid one. Do not buy this game.
4936) False advertising they **** used Joel so people could buy it u should not buy it
4937) The last of us part 2 is crap don't let anyone tell you otherwise That girl's nose is too big we don't need to see that And by the way my friend kian is koooni
4938) This game is literally 2 - 3 hours long at most. It honestly makes no sense to allow Ellie and Tommy to live when they know exactly who killed Joel. Literally everything after this point should be considered fantasy because if I was Abby I would have killed both Tommy and Ellie after killing Joel and thus left no witnesses to what occurred.,,This is some of the most god awful fanfic garbage. I didn’t particularly care for the ending of the first game but it was clear they wanted to do some sort of generational thing with Ellie becoming the new playable character in the second game especially when you take into account the DLC of the first game pushing that agenda.,,The start of 2 was solid up until Joel’s death. The game was over at that point. They honestly should have made this a game fleshing out Ellie’s growing up and attempting to come to terms with what Joel did in the first game, the ending would be when Abby kills not just Joel but also Ellie and Tommy. You shouldn’t even know who killed him to be honest.,,Then as a dlc or as a pre-sequel game they could then explore Abbey’s story starting immediately following the end of part 1 and leading up to killing Joel. The player wouldn’t know what is going on until the moment of truth when she kills Joel, Tommy and Ellie.,,There were any number of ways to handle this and ND chose one of the worst ones. “Critics” are saying users are review bombing the game but lets be real here, we didn’t get the game for free, we don’t receive review copies of games and WE SURE AS **** DONT HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT BEING BLACK BALLED BY TRASH COMPANIES MAD ABOUT A REVIEW WORSE THAN A 7.5.,,ANY CRITIC THAT GAVE THIS GAME HIGHER THAN A 6 IS EITHER A SELLOUT OR SMOKING CRACK!
4939) Abby as protagonist?! Don't f with me!,The history is a dead whole, do not buy this sh....
4940) desappoint 7 years waiting for this game and make this thing, really sad how the make the sequel
4941) You kill the main character with a brassy, and then make me play for 15 hours for his killer
4942) Just replay the first game and pretend that this one never happened. What an incredible disappointment.
4943) I had to spend my time feeling SO UNCOMFORTABLE and SO FUKING UNPLEASENT. This game is one of the most DISGUSTING games in HUMAN HISTORY
4944) don't spend your money for this **** very very very bad story they should name [it the lost of our mind] cause they destroy the succes of the part 1 and bad gameplay i am really so sad cause i spend my money for this **** DO NOT EVER THINK ABOUT THIS EP.
4945) Stupid game, they just made it to support LGBT and this **** communites.,Nothing in it is nice at all they ruined the first part with this  bad part,The people who gave it 10/10 are dumb and not honest at all.,It desrves to get lower than 1/10
4946) Imagine if Master Chief gets killed by the Arbiter in Halo 2 a few minutes in, and then you play as Arbiter for the rest of the game, as well as Halo 3, 4, 5 and Halo Infinite.,,Thats what this game basically is.,,Lets hope Master Chief is not a white male underneath that helmet.
4947) Graphics are great animations, music, etc but the story oh boy the story is literally your typical mediocre hollywood movie and the writers are trying so hard to surprise you and make you see the perspective of characters that you wouldn’t like for even 1 second. To me this is one of the worst games this generation (story-wise) sony needs to fire some people from naughty dog lmao
4948) A game that is very rude to anyone who played the first part.,Don't try to educate the player
4949) Tlous has been my GOAT.,I have watched enough of tlous2 on youtube.,WOAT. Gamers Lives Matter. Defund the Naughtydog.
4950) This game not worth time nor money.Better to play GOD OF WAR one more time!!!!!
4951) ReVeNgE iS bAd. What a way to end the franchise... Don't waste your time with this terrible story.
4952) Shame on you, Naughty Dog. Shame on you, Neil Druckmann. You fuxked up and you lied to us, you ruined a truly epic game.
4953) "Look How They Massacred My Boy" /// "You forget a thousand things every day, make sure this is one of them" is The only things i can still say about this insane burning trashcan. Go buy Spongebob: Battle for Bikini Botton - Rehydrated pre order, we know it's gonna be good.
4954) The game worth nothing. If you want to play the last of us, play TLOU 1. Dont waste your money on 2
4955) disgusting game. The producers are sick people with mental disorder.  Basically they had the opportunity & enough time to come up with better concept. instead they used the game as a " pot " for their pathetic lust.
4956) Game of the year.,,I'm obviously being sarcastic. The "story" is a complete joke, not saying the first was any better but the sequel makes any development that happened in that game pointless to fit in a blatant political pandering which is obvious for all to see. The gameplay doesn't fair any better either with it being rather shallow with rididled button prompts(yay interactive movies).,,just save your money and watch the movi- I mean, game, on youtube and at least get some laughter out of it if anything. That way you won't have buyers remorse and you can feel better about yourself knowing there are a lot of people who bought it and delude themselves into thinking it's good to justify their purchase. Masterpiece my ass!,,The prequel wasn't  one but it was a good game which is more than I can say for this.
4957) This will contain spoilers,,***TL;dr An accurate synopsis of this game and how the writing is like that of a five year old," 2 angy women no like ech over, but is frends at end bcose vilence am naughty",,Where to even start with this game, 7 years in the making yet it feels like the entire story, if you can even call it that was written by a 7 year old.,,In a wave of yearly, tired, predictble, easily forgotten triple A titles, the last of us set itself apart and gained practically universal appraise because of the characters.  The world was interesting, the graphics were beautiful, but what made it different to other big titles churned out was how it handled the characters.  In the first game you played as two damaged characters in a post apocalyptic world, learning about each other, fighting both infected and humans, the apocalypse was a back drop to the genuine growth and development of these 2 much loved characters.  We played as a man who lost his daughter, his only reason to live, we saw him thrown into situations where both humans and infected were trying to kill him, we watched him overcome depression, we watched him form a bond with a girl who would become an adoptive daughter figure to him.  We played as ellie, an orphan growing up in a post apocalyptic world, who is inexplicbly immune to the virus, who at a young age experience enough dark crap that she had justified trust issues, we saw as she opened up and grew to trust in joel.,,Then after almost a decade the second game comes along and removes everything that made the first game so iconic. Joel is killed before he gets any screen time, and he is not killed for world building, or to make room for other characters to come and develop and grow, he was not killed to set up an interesting plot, he was killed for cheap shock value story telling.  In a world with infected,raiders, military, mercenaries, communities, cannibals, cults, religious fanatics there were a million different ways they could have introduced new struggles for these characters, instead they used the easiest, most simplistic trick in the book.,,In 2 you play as 2 characters,Ellie, but not like ellie in the first game, this version does not grow or change or learn, she is angry woman with nothing past the surface level rage.,Abby, a cope/paste version of ellie, a woman who has the exact same one and only personality trait that ellie has, that has the same one and only predictible driving force that ellie has, but unlike ellie she has no history with the player, she has no endearing or redeeming features and again there is nothing past the surface level rage.,,As for the actual "story" it is a predictible, boring revenge story, but even that is not done right, If they wanted to do a predictible revenge story it would not have been as successful as the first game, but it would still be more time in this world, with those characters and would still be enjoyable.  But, nope, naughty dog decided instead to have us play with 99.9% of the screen time watching this revenge story unfold only for it to end with one character completely changing her personality on a dime, in a perfect example of utterly lazy deus ex machina writing.,,All this means that the players are left watching an uninspired, forgetabble, awful revenge story unfold only to end with the most anti climactic, pious, self righteous, holier-than-thou, "revenge is bad kids, mmmmkay" message, that resolves nothing and feels completely empty.
4958) This game is **** you don't choose where spend your money and watch game **** come here
4959) You threw us under the bus. Your game plays like a card board cut out. You let your fans down.
4960) I miss the old Naughty Dog! The Last of Us was great but this one I've stopped playing after 1st hour,Miss me with your stupid political messages
4961) I just finished the game and it was awful. I was playing with anger, sadness and disturbance.,I dont know what to say about it, The Last of Us is dead for me, thank you naughty dog.,I will never play another game from you.
4962) This is an attempt to satisfy political trends, not a video game. Play the first one by all means, it's still a great game, but this you should keep away from. A Joke to the writers of the first game.,Just look at this rating of corrupt reporters without own opinion.
4963) Unfortunately a great disappointment. Extremely violent without meaning. Some scenes where almost copied right out of the SAW series... The story makes no sense to me as a fan of this and similar games. It seems to me that the creator just wanted to create controversy and sell the game through that. Why is beyond me since it is a popular title/genre anyway. A very wrong commercial move in my point of view.,To sum up:,Gameplay: 4/10 - Copy-Paste from the previous game +/- some very tiny details. Be warned the game has a very slow pace in many parts. You might get a little annoyed, tired or bored...,Story: 1/10 - Very socio/political agenda oriented. Not focusing to the games main issue/story. Builds new unwanted characters and stops the development of existing ones. The games derails from the main goal very soon and puts the player on a grudge track.... I thought we were trying to save the world not **** about personal issues here... i guess i was wrong.,Graphics: 4/10 as expected for a 2020 game but nothing spectacular. GoW/the last couple of ACs and Uncharted 4 are on par with this game when it comes to graphics. Beautiful yes but nothing really revolutionary. Also very very dark... i don't know why. Maybe to push the whole dark theme. And unfortunately with dark themes in graphics you can hide a lot of detail or not use time to develop them at all..,Soundtrack: 2/10. Dark to the borderline of depressing, FX not as good as similar other games.,Overall : 1/10. I wanted to give it a better score but because of the great expectations it was a huge disappointment to me.... The fact that the story derails so much from the main theme of the game only to introduce a socio/political agenda is a deal breaker for me and all the music or graphics in the world would not make this a better game. i cannot justify 60 bucks for a title as bad as this. I would not recommend this to any of my friends either. I like them too much.  1/10 just for the people that worked their asses off to create this but had nothing to do with the story/direction.,NG do better next time. It's not that hard...
4964) Wow, unbelievable how they ruined a great PlayStation exclusive. 7 years.. for what?
4965) Another SJW scum game. When the game is trying to please the current political situation, nothing good will come.
4966) Be glad that you weren't the launch title for PS5 ND, because otherwise, Sony would probably have to sue you to death for false advertising in order to save face. I doubt critics play these kinds of games anymore, they just take their due for 10/10 and go spend their time on something more productive than such crap triple-A.I feel disgusted and honestly sympathize with every regular developer that had to follow this **** of game direction for 7 years.
4967) It feels like a cashgrab with extremely poor story decisions that just feels forced to get a reaction. The gameplay is not enjoyable one bit and the story made it so that I feel no real motivation to keep going. Overall a huge disappointment and I wish they would've never released this sequel.,And no, this review has nothing to do with Ellie being lesbian.,Do not waste your money on this piece of trash, you will likely regret it.
4968) how can i play this game where you killed the antagonist from the first game with the worst way ever, i cant belive ellie became gay annd thats not what she supposed to be, this game have nothing to do with the first game.
4969) Trash story and character. Part 2 ruined my favorite game. Naughty dog is on my ban list now.
4970) This game is horrible, pleagued by politics, and agendas, I want to play the story driven award winning zombie survival, not play the political pushing zombie game, I'm sure zombies are a bigger danger than anything else to worry about
4971) Joel dies, you are forced to play with the trans thing that killed him for 10+ hours. Really really bad for someone who likes the first game.
4972) Completly ruined the game and those positive reviews are paid or just cocksuckers who dont know what good storytellin is
4973) Absolute unit of trash. Save yourself 60 bucks. The worst game I've played so far. Game is lucky to have a 3.4 rating. Killing of a main character done right is fine, but naughty dog really **** Joel over. Game had tok much political opinions and feels very forced. Awful writing and gameplay. As ellie you dont kill abby (character who killed Joel). Overall very poor and lazy game. .
4974) Where do I even begin. Joel dies a more pathetic death than hux, you don't have the option to kill the bad guy, in fact you have to play as them, all these characters you're supposed to have feelings for but you never have the time to develop any feelings for, plot holes galore and the worset sex scene that I have ever seen
4975) Yes, the game is done well, but a lot of problems with the plot. don't need propaganda. I don't understand why they killed a hero like Derl?
4976) This nuclear waste puts you in a swamp of endless displeasure. So, Don't throw away your precious 59.99$ in this nuclear waste.,- **** Off, Neil Druckmann.
4977) Been a Naughty Dog fan boy since day one. Crash was the most played game of my childhood and the Uncharted series my favorite of all time. Lou part 1 was probably the greatest story telling game that most of us had ever played with incredible emotional connections to the characters. All that said, I’m extremely disappointed with part 2. Do not buy this trash. Killing off Joel to destroy the patriarchal protagonist that we all loved with this new age juiced up golf pro with a grudge was more than a slap in the face for those of us who truly had strong feelings for his character from the first game. I hope that the negative honest reviews continued to pour in. If the writers of Lou 2 continue to create content for naughty dog then my days of loving and enjoying this company are done. Video games are supposed to be a grand escape from the SJW bs that is constantly and forcefully pounded into every other aspect of our lives on a daily basis. Why the h*** would I want to subject myself to this? Way to ruin a great thing naughty dog.
4978) Neil Druckmann says on hıs video on ND youtube channel he was cryıng ın the end of hıs playtrough now ı can see why.This review contains spoilers. It's just rly bad letting characters die like Joel by a "woman" called Abby is just trash bad story. Naughty dog destroyed last of us.
4979) The reviewers fooled me with this game. I'm getting a refund. I can't believe how bad this game was compared to the first one.
4980) Anti-Christian bigotry and hatred made by woke activists. Not fun, just a lecture in hate.
4981) What a joke! It ruins everything that was great about the last game. Characters are horrible
4982) Propaganda, a **** game made to insert the propaganda up your ass getting advance of the good game the part 1 was.
4983) Bad game , very bad characters and even worse story. Dont buy this game if you dont want to loose all your good memories from the last one.
4984) Thrilling storyline? Really? It's the most boring game with a not interesting story and monotonous gameplay. Such a failure...
4985) F you naughty dog killing off a character like that is just pathetic. The story is terrible, Neil Druckmann is an uneducated, bad director.
4986) Part 1 was truly awesome, but this time around Naughty Dog sacrifice great storytelling to cater a few.
4987) Disgusting **** game developed by Naughty Dog. Such a bloody disappointment! AVENGERS GAME WILL **** ON THIS AWFUL PIECE OF TRASH
4988) Generic gameplay, walking simulator, garbage story. And not really a game made for entertainment, but rather a J funded LGBT progressivism PsyOps.
4989) the history of the game is a true sjw propaganda in which the minorities become majority with L.G.B.T. really everywhere. in addition to offering a really bad story with a more than desperate end
4990) The Trans of Us. The Trans of Us. The Trans of Us. The Trans of Us. The Trans of Us.
4991) It has really taken 7 years to make such nonsense. By making this game, human values ​​have been violated and I am really surprised how the publications give this game a complete score.,If this is going to be the future of games, it's better that games have no future
4992) DO NOT BUY!  The story is a disgrace and ruins the franchise. I will never buy another ND game again.
4993) I am so disappointed in this story. Completely ruins the first game. The writers tried something new and it was ruined. Stop pushing agendas.
4994) Stupid Game!The game sucks. The plot is terrible. Only the gameplay is normal. The game is awesome, the end of the game is meaningless.
4995) You kill joel, and then force us to play with the killer?  F U Naughty dog!
4996) The biggest decception of the generation, the graphics and the OST are good, the rest...I wish i could forget this game.
4997) Disgusting you ruined the magnificent game, why did you put gays and transgender, and why did you kill the charachters
4998) Easily the worst game of all time. A true political freak show. Minority characters(politics) do not belong in any video game whatsoever. People play games for fun, not to be repeatedly slapped in the face with politics.
4999) Completely ruined the great characters we have loved to enjoy in the first game with horrible and inconsistent writing.one of the worst stories I have seen in video games.
5000) Total disrespect to the first game and the worst sequel in video game history.
5001) Shiet dogs-game. What are you doing? THIS IS VERY BIG SHIETS I'm very ugly with you
5002) If I wanted to see a poorly produced movie I would have seen a Mexican movie and not lose so much money
5003) Great gameplay, horrific story that rushes to kill off beloved characters to make way for new character no one asked for or wanted.
5004) One of the worst stories that i have see.,Why you killd Joul.,Why Ellie doesn't kill abi.
5005) Welcome to TLoU Part II, where you get to indulge in a degenerate's creepy fantasies with the exact same, unchanged and tiring gameplay of the first entry. Now with even more paid reviewers singing the game's praises like trying to get you to buy a big, stinky bag of feces. Neil Cuckdmann, you are a **** hack. Hope Anita notices you and you get the pegging and CBT ball busting you deserve you self-centered, employee-exploiting, nepotist, **** brain-damaged, talentless **** You ruined a once beloved company and you are a **** **** stain in the gaming industry. Go back to the depravity den you crawled out from and spare us your existence. And since you are a so-called "feminist ally", how did it feel to fire the female writer that made the plot of the Uncharted trilogy good to begin with? TL;DR: wait until TLoU Part II is less than ten bucks in a bargain bin and you'll have an easy plat. Plus Druckmann won't see a single penny that way.
5006) I don't hate any charactor in the game, I just hate Neil.,What a horrble story teller you are.
5007) Naughty dog has destroyed themseleves in a matter of weeks. Impressive. It took Disney star wars 4 years
5008) The last of us Part 2 takes a flight from the themes and baseline of the first game which made the first game a classic. The gameplay was enjoyable and the scripted gameplay moments were great too but last of us 1 wasn't famous for it's gameplay it was favourite for the relationship chemistry of father and daughter and the adventure they go through,A simple story was so beautifully told.,The last of us 2 doesn't focus on such formula rather is based on a completely different concepts. The gameplay is good but the essence which made it what it was is not there.
5009) Absolutely empty and unenjoyable plot. This is what happens when a game is based on feminist and LGBT propaganda, but that's what it was actually created for. Look at the first part, which was not involved in all this fight against oppression and look at this game. You feel what destroys the game industry, huh? When they put feminist and LGBT propaganda in the game and create it just for the sake of the message. TLOU II is a desecration of the first part.
5010) Absolutely terrible! I'm a huge fan of the original and I hate myself for taking the bate for part 2. This game is heavily founded on pushing views and agendas in which highly affects everything about this game...a chain reaction of terrible writing, story telling, plot holes from small to big. A complete insult to the original. Nothing feels justified within what happens. All these new influences nowadays affecting all forms of media just weakens and insults the quality. The game looks amazing but that's it. It has no life within that crappy shiny empty shall. I never made a review on metacritic but I had to sign up to post this.
5011) A retarded ass sequel with a retarded ass ending.. I wonder how much Sony paid to these guys to write so much good about it... Absolutely terrible and regret not doing anything productive instead
5012) Sorry but i prefer hold the last of us, the story is very bad, graphic doesn't change is Uncharted 4.
5013) The trailers and the reviews by the pandering critics wanting to receive review copies from sony in the future are deceiving. This is not the sequel most people have been waiting and hoping for (if any). The positives are only related to the visuals and the technicality of the game.. animations etc. The guys responsible for lighting, animations, voice acting etc all did a phenomenal job and deserve praise! BUT this is a very linear story driven game and what good does a story driven game do when the story is absolute garbage? the story feels like some forced fanfic that tries hard to seem deeper than it really is. I don't mind Joel getting killed, in fact I counted on it. But the way they did kill him and the way they force the player to control his killer Abby (a boring characters that constantly has the facial expression of someone taking a **** doesn't do this already boring, badly paced game any favor. To top it all off the game turns into this revenge plot where Ellie kills hundreds of people to get to Abby only to realize that "hey! killing is bad" when she gets the chance to kill Abby.,I don't care about Ellie being lesbian or Joel being killed by a woman, it all comes down to how they handled it and how the story progresses.  When a game is more like an interactive movie the story is what carries it, that's why this game sucks.
5014) Disappointment The Game nothing more to say.,Please do not support this trash we deserve better than this. Joel and Ellie deserved better than this.
5015) Dont waste any money, this game sucks. I just want to forget about this game.
5016) All in all just very disappointed in the storyline. I enjoyed the first part due to its great graphics and great story telling however this seemed rather terrible.
5017) Same like the first game, offensive Sex and LGBT problems scenes which are not intended to be advertised on game consoles.
5018) Get woke go broke....The games is nothing more then SJW crap. It's the crap they always do. They come in crapped on something that people like then cry when people dont like what they have done.
5019) This ain't it chief. Absolutely a disrespect to the Mangum Opus of the original. **** The New Naughty Dog. 0/10. Misery simulator.
5020) They just destroyed the story that they build in TLOU 1.,TLOU 2 Gameplay/Graphics is not bad but story is fking trash and unforgivable. How can the critic said that this game is about Joel and Ellie relationships? Huh ****
5021) Do not buy this. Total dumpster fire of a story. What were they thinking?? What a joke, don't waste your time on this crap.
5022) Another SJW trash with LGBT agenda. Feminist vomit. Pathetic attempt of **** propaganda. Look at user rating. Now you really see what most players think about all this SJW **** Shame on you for this, Naughty Dog. ****ty story = ****ty game. Nobody will be surprised, if this crap will fail in sales, lol.
5023) This game completely kills everything that made the 1st game great. They kill off the main protagonist in the series just to come up with a cliche "revenge" story and at the end of the game you don't even get revenge. They force you to play as  the character that kills the main protagonist of the series and have her story be told through stupid flashbacks to get the player to feel remorse for them.
5024) Weak Story, no Gameplay improvements and the developers only tried to please SJW Trans Karens who wont even buy the game anyway.. completely missed their audience and butchered a game that would have been good.. Can only Hope they learn from it
5025) DONT BUY this SH1T    .
5026) Thank's  SJW, You screwed up everything. There was nothing enjoyable about this. Go waste your money on another game.
5027) Terrible story, terrible ending, terrible new character, the part II is sucks.
5028) A total disgrace and disappointment as if the character development lousy enough they killed off Joel and isnt redeemed by Ellie. This all felt like a complete waste of time. I’m glad I didn’t actually pay to play this game I’m glad I didn’t actually pay to play this game. Save your money naughty dog does not about their fans or characters  just pandering to a small group. Feminist is GW’s and LGBTQ . This game exists only to fit awful narrative.
5029) Boring gameplay, might as well have just been a movie.,Story completely abandons Joel and Ellie in favour of Abby who is completely unlikeable and Neil Druckmans e-waifu.
5030) Hype was huge! Result is fine, but nothing special! Hopefully in next part will be more LGBT+ ideology!!
5031) Simple, they didn't do this game for whom loves and enjoy the first game. It's a mess... A political minority statement... The worst ending game ever... I just want to play a good game with great history, nothing else.
5032) Cute graphics, garbage storytelling.,> did you remember the joke?,> what's the downside of playing this **** excuse of a game?,> ...?,> it's time consuming.
5033) Extremely dissapointing. Forcing SJW down people's throats only makes the tension and separation worse. I will never support Naughty Dog again. 0 out 10...
5034) Bad content and it trying to spread **** ideas and considering it as normal
5035) Players from the past generation are very disappointed. The naughty dog did not show a wonderful story. I am very angry.
5036) **** devs killed this game.. First 2hrs into the game and **** hits the fan. This might actually get a unique award.. Best Disappointment of the Year. Don't buy this. Wait for Ghost of Tsushima instead
5037) Dev have brain damage. Ruined the game for me. Part one was amazing. Story line very bad
5038) a sh!t game that wastes your money Don’t buy if you have played the part one
5039) Just disappointment from Naughty Dog Studio, bad story, objectionable characters, relationships like junk or worse, dumb and bad end, nasty and stupid, story characters' development forced on the player, overall the game is bad and I don't like it.
5040) Franchise has been ruined with this terrible stroyline when they decided to go down the libtard woke direction. Keep lefty females outta video games!
5041) Please don't call it the last of us its a shame.,i can only play the original game to forget this sheit .
5042) A disgrace to the main characters. They totaly disregarded the first game and our attachement to the main character, Joe deserved so much better than what he got. Really sad and extremely dissaponting.
5043) I'm not even kidding, this game sucks, the plot? sucks, the AI? even in hard, sucks. Story telling? Sucks dick, stop focusing on making games "diversity friendly" TLOU is a masterpiece, but this one sucks.
5044) Really bad game, it's just propaganda and a bad plot. They ruined their game.
5045) Visuals - some of  the best 10/10,Audio - amazing foley and soundtrack 9,5/10,Acting - Amazing performances by the 3 main characters,Story - a true disrespect to the players of the game, makes everything the studio did meaningless and destroys the work everyone has done.,Final grade - 0/10
5046) This is not a videogame, just political propaganda and another case of collusion between "professional" reviewers, journalists and media.
5047) **** game,Story does not match up with 1st game. Of course they wanted to make difference between 1 and 2 but story went too far. If you play LoU1 and play 2 might get some separation. Too much sexual minority.  Little bit of sexual minority is OK, but there are too much sexual minority might have to call sexual majority. Some senario that does not have to include sexual minority ruins the flow of the game.,Dont know why critics gave it high score. Reason why sales is good is that 1 was the great game. Streamers and gamers quit game while playing it think critics have to change their mind
5048) Just delete this game please.. aint worth. After joel dies, i cant watch the story anymore, its just aint worth
5049) pleas tell me this is a joke.... can't concentrate on character and story,there is no reasonable story in this game,why why why!! we've been waiting for 7 years for nothing,Before the game released I don't have no interest for gays or lesbians....it means i respect them...,but this game make me hate those guys...
5050) Terrible plot and playable character (abby).  Dont buy this game. You will regret.
5051) I’ve never heard of this game and don’t know what it’s about but I know it has something to do with transgender politics and I hate transgender people.
5052) Worst Story direction and character decision making ever to be seen in media.  Thank you for butchering what so many have come to love
5053) Absolutely embarrassing to the franchise. Ridiculous how hypocritical the LGBT community is. They won’t even acknowledge it’s not a good game. Shoving their LGBT crap in every single piece of media expecting us to be ok with it. The game is not good, accept it snowflakes.
5054) Absolutely disgusting game. A spit in the face of the original game. Gtfo with your politics and pr0paganda. Its a video game.
5055) All in all, the message I feel you unfortunately arrive at is: “you can progress only by doing gratuitous, overly detailed and glorified violence, but don’t feel good about it!”,Complete character reversals on Fan favorites like Joel, once cautious and slow to make friends now naive and too quick to trust make this game unfit to be labeled a continuation of its story. These sort of character regressions are confusing and irritating to watch unfold, and makes what would have been impactful storytelling moments feel unjustified in how they are executed. To me, The Last of Us 2 feels like reading someone’s first foray into fan-fiction with a potentially compelling story in mind and moral they want to extend whilst not bothering to consider keeping true to the characters they include, or at bothering to evolve them, nor following themselves the moral they appear to want you to learn: “violence and revenge are wrong.” The tone seems set: ‘Revenge is a cyclic horror that never ends well, and violence should be reflected upon and avoided as it is a daunting and disturbing act.’ Except in this game, revenge is a driving story point throughout and violence feels glorified to a disgusting extent. I can’t help but think back on other games that make you reconsider and question acts of violence and rekindle your humanity like Earthbound or Undertale so skillfully do.,I wish they had thought more about communicating their message effectively in offering autonomy to follow through on what appears to be an intent to self reflect and let go of cyclic violence, it might have been a great game if they had.
5056) Trash game and thirty mins of Tutorial wasn’t up to my standards the first game was a great game and this one is a pile of ****
5057) Definitely subverted my expectations in that I expected a game as good as the last, only to get a dumpster fire.
5058) Worst game of the year. I don’t know why the studio decided to butcher the world they created in the first game. Even the first games only upside was the characters, and they **** it all up. Why?
5059) When director of big company spit on 100% of audience in moving of his insane SJW ideas MIN MAY LOE LITE
5060) Left pandering sjw agenda. Check,Unchanged gameplay from last installment. Check,**** writing. Check,**** ending. Check,Just skip this.
5061) Boring game, am I watching a movie or playing a game ???? If I want to see a game playe, I see eg YouTube I want to play not see a soap opera of the rose of Guadalupe
5062) Nothing but smoothed over graphics and sappy cut scenes. I was fooled into spending $60 on this. Wait for Cyberpunk. Absolutely zero open world feel. The windows that aren’t boarded are clearly the ones you are supposed to go through. Is this game for a 1st grader? Considering the gratuitous sex probably not. I canfind anything good to say about this game.
5063) Why did they use a transgender to kill the most manly, southern character in the game.. JOEL...
5064) THIS IS MY FIRST REVIEW OF A PS4 GAME.,,I just finished the game. All I can say, game is bad overall. When you talk games like TLOU generally, you talk about a "story" not "gameplay". While gameplay plays a big part, story plays a bigger one.,Straight forward, ND destroyed the game. They forced agendas upon their players knowing TLOU had a lot of fans, and the game grew so much in those seven years gap.,What they did to get their money was false marketing the *STORY*. Check the latest "reveal date" trailer from them. They painted the game as if you'll play with Ellie now she's grown up, while having Joel alongside later in the game, and that never happened.,Last of "Us" always meant to me as two characters: Ellie and Joel. Now I don't disagree with killing Joel, but he deserved much **** better. We fell in love with his character, and you killing him off just to push some agenda in the first 2 hours is what I call killing off the **** game.,,I was one of those who defended the game before playing it, but now that I did and finished it, all I can say I'm sorry for doubting the haters, because I'm one, too.,,AND that aside, fans expected lots  answers: Why is Ellie immune? What happened to the world? The cure? They left a lot of **** just to push some agenda, which I'm okay with, but completely **** unnecessary, especially in a video game like this.,,But hey I learnt a lesson here which is never preorder a game, especially from PS dog**** store. I wasted $60, and I will regret paying ND this **** much for this ****ty game.,,Now, I want a dev or a storyteller who was part of TLOU 2 making to actually make a video explaining the meta behind the writing of this **** story. How can you even come up with this trash? Were there ever QA involved here? DID ANYBODY IN THIS COMPANY TEST THIS GAME AND THOUGHT "OH WE SHOULDN'T DO THAT." ?!,,I'm so **** triggered. I wish I could refund this. Nice kill, Naughty Dog.
5065) I feel bad for the crew that worked on this game.  It must be terrible working on a thing for 7 years only for the writers to ruin everything with their horrible writing.,Everybody did amazing, the acting, the music, the graphics of this game are spectacular, but It's all for nothing when Halley Gross and Neil Druckmann (especially him with his disgusting self-insert spitting on Joel) had to kill everything that was great about it with their unnecessary torture porn and animal cruelty.,,I'm surprised that writers keep doing stuff like this even after they saw how D&D killed their careers with s8 of GoT. The only expectations they subverted are Sony's pockets, cause nobody will want to buy this game after seeing users reviews on it.,,My adivice to future videogame makers is, it doesn't matter if all pieces of your game are amazing, if your writing it's worth 0 then the whole game It's worth a 0.
5066) Good graphics. Everything else is awful. Hilariously bad and cringe storyline. Devs should be ashamed
5067) 連邦機関などによる調査の場合、私はこのグループまたはその中の人々と関与していません。私はここにどのように住んでいるのか知りません。おそらく第三者によって追加されたものです。このグループのメンバーによる,In case of an investigation by any federal entity or similar, I do not have any involvement with this group or with the people in it, I do not know how I am here, probably added by a third party, I do not support any actions by the members of this group.,En caso de una investigación por parte de cualquier entidad federal o similar, no tengo ninguna participación con este grupo o con las personas que forman parte de él, no sé cómo estoy aquí, probablemente agregado por un tercero, no apoyo ninguna acción por los miembros de este grupo. Julio la chupa.,Im Falle einer Untersuchung durch eine föderale Einrichtung oder ähnliches habe ich keine Beteiligung an dieser Gruppe oder den Menschen darin, ich weiß nicht, wie ich hier bin, wahrscheinlich von einem Dritten hinzugefügt, ich unterstütze keine Maßnahmen von den Mitgliedern dieser Gruppe.,如果任何联邦实体或类似机构进行调查，我与该团体或其中的人员没有任何关系，我不知道我在这里，可能是由第三方添加，我不支持任何行动
5068) I'm really angry with him. I'd rather throw the money on the ground rather than buy it for $60
5069) what the hell has happened. I'm sorry the first one was an absolute masterpiece without good graphics this is garbage i waited ages to play this game and actually enjoy it. What a waste of £50
5070) It isn’t bad because there’s homosexuality, its just that the story sucks.
5071) Sad just sad. This is what we have been waiting for? Some of the worst storytelling in such a good franchise I have ever seen.
5072) The game forced me to play as the charecter that i didint even know for the **** half of the game
5073) Killing beloved character for anita sarkeesian agrnda is nothing good. Also lazy political writting.
5074) Have expected for four years but finally got a **** Hope this sequel never exist.
5075) It is rude for Last of us 1 , if you want killing ??? it is fine . But you need more storytelling ! not enough storytelling / not enough character / i don't want to play more when 12 hours playing / if you want to play with abby? 1day ellie -> 1day abby -> 2day ellie -> 2day abby is better than 5day ellie -> 5day abby  And at least one thing !!! 2 kinds of ending ? will be much much better and you need to make something more than this
5076) Nothing wrong with trans characters and inclusion in video games. However there is something wrong with taking a beloved character and **** all over him for the sake of a cheap shock. Such obvious character insert from the writer. The Last Of Us 1 was loved for its development of Ellie and Joel's relationship and Joel dies an hour and a half in for the sake of forcing some "dark twisted realism" shtick. All the critic reviews show is that critics will eat up any Triple A game and sing its praises to ensure getting early copies.
5077) Disc wouldn’t work in my Xbox. Terrible game. Started WW2. Killed George Floyd. Staged the moon landing. Made the Earth round. Buying this is saying you’re okay with sweatshop work environments that value profit over people. Thanks Obama.
5078) 7 years for this s#it, lol gfys LGBT people. paid snowflakes critics will not change anything.
5079) I don't know how it is humanly possible to mess up a story so bad compared to the first game but wow congrats on the last of us part II,,Save your money don't play this game or any game made by ND
5080) Its kinda trash and the worst ending of gaming history ill stick to the last of us 1
5081) They forgot what their public like in order to please people who dont even  play videogames. And Anita shoul be fired and never hired again by companies
5082) Overrated.,Good Graphics & Sound.,Average gameplay.,Horrible story & characters,First game was way better.
5083) yakuza kiwami zombie majima objective better than this whole game. oh hi there 500 kg gamers
5084) 7 years waiting for a bad story and boring characters. I am angry and sad .
5085) An utter dog of a game. I managed about 80 seconds of gameplay before I puked, **** disgrace
5086) The game spits on everything the first game established. The heartache, the pain, going through Joels journey and ultimately finding a reason to continue, it was all pointless. I play games for storylines, not for cheap shock value that spits on fans.
5087) Complete crap. Agenda-driven, mindless crap. No one should play this game, let alone buy this game.
5088) Man **** naughty dog they turned a masterpiece to a LGBT fanfiction, not worth buying
5089) Waste of time.....................................................................................................
5090) I literally can't believe this was the game. Poor and I mean, unbelievably poor writing for the story plot. There was no point to be had other than the fact of showing how bad the game writer was. Would not recommend.
5091) Political agenda don't have place in videogames. Its pure LGBT propaganda, they kill the franchise
5092) The most boring game I've ever played, not only the history itself is boring, but the gameplay too, the characters can't seem to make up their minds for 2 minutes straight, and constantly are changing they way to think and act, also, this game likes to turn it's back to all the frist game  set, disappointing and boring
5093) Ridiculous game, characters without construction without charisma without anything. Shameful story compared to the first game, totally predictable story of revenge. The game only sustains itself in the expectation of the death of a character to at the end try a moral lesson in a post apocalyptic world that joke seems to be a Disney story.
5094) The last of us is one of the best games ever made,the characters,narrative,and world was amazing all done in 2013,The last of us part 2 takes everything that made the first game a masterpiece and **** on it,The characters are unmemorable or unlike able,the story and writing is anything else but good,the ending makes even the poorly done story a waste of time like it could get any worse The things the game excels at are mandatory like great graphics,the gameplay is fun and has a sense of danger and urgency. But these mechanics are more or less the same from the first game. The last of us 2 is game that should have never happened,the last of us should have been the only game in this franchise and from where this game leaves off the revival of this franchise isn’t gonna happen
5095) The betrayed absolutely everything the first game standed for, i can't believe sony allowed naughty dog to release something like this
5096) I'm sick and tired of SJW crap being fed to my eyes with a spoon, after gouging them out with a fork. Wester culture seems obsessed with showing that ugly, masculine or androgine women, if possible LGBT+, are the only way to make characters "strong" or "independent". Sorry, news flash: men are not after females resembling bears, hairy, fat, and ugly. Women also don't  like them, for that matter. Stop defining characters like "Hello, I'm Ellie. And I'm gay." NO ONE CARES!
5097) put the lesbians in the game. Seriously? worst solution. terrible terrible story.
5098) seams sony paid everyone to give the game 10/10 it is the worst game i ever played in my life
5099) Do not buy this game, SAVE YOUR MONEY!!! the game was lost in history and now the focus is lgbt, where's the survival, survival horror, action and adventure?? THIS GAME ITS A MOVIE! dont buy that if you have a brain.
5100) This Game is awlfull they **** up bad no improvements made from the first game after 7 years how do you make something Great worse than the original!!!
5101) Too many ideology LGBT, game is boring. ,...................................
5102) Here to add a 0 to make sure Sony or meta themselves won’t create bots or do anything to boosts the score
5103) This game suck, with some LgBt **** in this game, it becomes nothing more than trash
5104) It's beautiful and the gameplay is extremely polished. The story however is the absolute most abysmol thing I have ever experienced.
5105) Awful. Simply awful. The leaks were real. The plot is the worst they could possibly make, it's a good game, if you play it skipping the cutscenes and with the voices in Russian with no subtitles.
5106) This game is more of a political statement than a game. Forced, out of place characters to push a political agenda.
5107) Worst game ever. **** happens, ye..,We need a any game for atmosphere and estrangement from reality. the political agenda has not given up to anyone.
5108) This game is a joke. Story all over the place. First few hours of the game immediately makes you want to puke. The story is garbage. Naughty dog you messed up. We all agree The last of us 2 was just a cash in. This game should not exist like this. Let's all just forget about this disgusting **** and flush it down the toilet.  Stick with the first game people, you'll enjoy it much more than you will this ****
5109) The sjw bs in this game is to much. Game play meh. Storyline would be better if it wasnt for all the glq nonsense.
5110) This game is pretty terrible. Not because of any "SJW pandering," but simply because the story is pretty garbage. The game is linear, and thus forces you to carry out certain actions in order to complete it. However, it also reprimands the player for committing actions that the player is *forced* to take.
5111) It’s whatever if people want to be LGBT but to force that ignorance down everyone’s throats is extremely unfair. If religion can’t push itself on you then why do these ideals get to be? You ruin video games with SJW crap.
5112) this game is pretty boring. The gameplay is boring.  The story is boring. Characters are boring. Not worth the price.
5113) A game that throws and deny everything from part 1. Was killing Joel's daughter Sara in part1 acceptable? Yes It can be since we know little about Sara and the probability of the story is very reasonable. But doing the same thing in part2 killing Joel is reasonable? Not at all. Since we know how Joel's Character is and the plot getting to it is very nonsense. Everything we know about Joel and Ellie in part1 was just a daydream in part2 making Joel from Discreet to Indiscreet person.,Just Score 1 from 0 for the graphics and the music
5114) You seriously put woke stuff into this Game? That is sad and not only that, the story doesn't follow from the first. Wth is this crap really? Don't buy this game it's not worth your money. This game is just a Netflix show too :(.
5115) I waited 5 years to play this,BUT worst story ever,naughty dog should be ashamed of themselves
5116) Horrible story, it is very forced to try to be inclusive and that makes the game or even worse and unpleasant, I expected much more
5117) Let’s be fair I only grade on story, I see no point marking on graphics as at this point in the current console generation graphics are the same.,This story is essentially boring and aimed at a certain demographic of society. Funnily enough, it’s not aimed at the majority.
5118) Probably the worst story a game ever had. Gameplay is pretty much the same from the previous title.,The ending is terrible, and it was infuriating having to go through all these hours of gameplay just to say I played it.,Garbage... It’s really sad, TLOU part 1 was actually kinda good, can’t say the same for this piece of ****
5119) Well, I'm not going to lie... The game is in small words a complete disaster storywise and you better save yourself 60 bucks, have a nice day.
5120) Graphics are good, but gameplay is clunky and the worst is story :/ you don't connect to anybody in there, so I don't care while playing. It's really weird game like Druckmans personal fantasy.
5121) The last of us part 2 story just simply sucks everything else is fine but to be honest the last of us is a game mainly loved by its story so the last of us part 2 is just a disappointment of a game
5122) complete garbage, if you want a trash to your collection, well, you can get this game
5123) When the creative pillars  of your game studio, namely Amy Hennig and Bruce Straley, resign and then 70% of your senior staff follow shortly afterwards, then your company is essentially dead in all but name only. ND has been dead for years. We just have a hard time letting go because, like Joel with Sara, the pain is just too much. RIP ND. Uncharted 2 and The Last of Us are in my personal top 10 of all time.
5124) Nothing new, some mechanics have been expanded but not improved, combat is aesthetically better looks pleasing but the same game different disc, an awful lot of politics in this game, some of it tries to shock you for shock sake, but it just comes off as ohh aren't we edgelords. Overall the games just been boosted by paid for reviews if you liked the first rendition of the series then this isn't for you
5125) This game is a failure on a massive scale. The gaphics are great, the gameplay is mediocre and the story is a disgrace to the franchise. Neil Druckman single handedly has destroyed the legacy of the first game and its beloved characters and story. AVOID at all costs, don't give money to hacks.,,And never trust the paid off gaming "journalists".
5126) Good graphics, good music, all the rest is total garbage, if you played the part 1, dont destroy your experience and memories, DO NOT BUY.
5127) Very disappointed.Can't believe i had to wait 7 years for this story feels like it was written in a week
5128) Unfortunately an amazing game such as the first Last of Us has to receive a politicized sequel like this. I was shocked at the sexual content that is in this game for virtually no reason. I think no matter what side of the aisle you stand we should all agree that video games should leave out the politics for the better.
5129) Best gameplay Best graphics Best design But **** character mindset **** storyline **** ending this game **** destroying name of legendary game in2013
5130) A big **** you to anyone that enjoyed the first game.,,Defenders will argue that this game is getting review bombed just because a certain beloved character dies or because of Ellie being gay. Not true at all considering the original game was quite beloved despite deaths happening including the Left Behind expansion that already revealed the gay thing.,,This game is a result of creating shock value for sake of shock value without any intention of making sense. Huge disappointment after waiting this long for a sequel to a beloved game. Avoid like the plague and vote with your wallet.
5131) Stop it. I won't buy more games made by you, thank you for ruining the first game for me
5132) not a bot you hypocritical modders, the paid reviewers obviously did not objectively review this dumpster fire.,they destroyed an entire franchise with their sjw rubbish, the story sucks, no more likable characters because of reasons you can view in other comments, and most importantly completely illogical actions by past main characters just to push their sjw agenda.
5133) What the actual **** did i spend my money on. Even indie mobile games have better story than this piece of garbage.
5134) As a trans man, I am sick of corporations peddling my identity for woke points. This is a bigoted dumpsterfire
5135) Just pretend Joel is still alive guys and pretend this game didn’t exist.Great graphics tho
5136) I give this a zero because of false advertisement, forced feminism, and Druckmann. This franchise deserved a better story and the main characters deserved a more profound ending.
5137) Destroy the personality of protagonist first game not is a great idea.a videogame is not the place for buy yor ideology
5138) AAA game, F play and story. Neil is brainless.Don't buy and don't play guys. IT IS BAD.
5139) Bad story. The game tells what it wants but what it wants is not what the players want. You just cant deny that.
5140) Zero is too much for this trash.,Stupid story, character development.,I prefer to play snake game on Nokia better than this trash.
5141) Playing 8 hours as someone you cant possibly like, at all. What a trash game.
5142) Awful game.  I loved the first part so much and what is the result?  Americans too fanatically support social minorities.  Because of this, creativity suffers both in the cinema and in the gaming industry.
5143) I don't understand how this is a masterpiece to some people. The story is just pure crap, plain and simple. I wish I could get a refund and believe me I tried from the online store. Save yourself the trouble and don't spend money on this garbage You are better off just watching a playthrough if you are curious how the crappy story goes.
5144) Ugh where to start? Being forced to play as a character who you hate and are happy when they die. Makes for weird gameplay, you are happy to lose. It sucks. The ridiculous added characters and groups. I could of come up with such a better story line naughty dog. I mean come on. The fact this gameplay is no where near as smooth and flawless as the first. They changed they way you craft and changed the ability to hear enemies, it’s not as good. Overall an honest score is a 2. I’m actually replaying the first after being so disgusted by the second and I’m relearning everything I LOVE about the original. Such a good honest story about compassion and love. The second is an agenda based load of crap. They try to create feelings in the game and you cannot do that. Anyways rant over I legit hated the game  Also the first game took place over a year in all different states and seasons. This load of crap takes place in 3 days in Seattle... literally Seattle. Who likes Seattle? Ugh just so so so boring and bush league
5145) If they wanted to destroy the characters from the first game and give us a story devoid of anything that makes you feel good; then they should have made a different game. Don't call it the last of us 2, because it's the worst sequel I've ever played.,It makes you feel dead! Don't play this game if you want to enjoy a story.
5146) Not worth it. Dont buy. The story is bad. Abby is the worst. Save your money.
5147) Joel deserves better. Ending was trash. Why go all through the killing only to spare the one who killed your father like figure??? The game forcfully lets you play as character who killed the most beloved character in gaming history!!!!
5148) Bad game. nothing else needs to be said. Just a bad game. Horrible, actually. Yeah.
5149) What have they done? That **** was the most unsatisfying garbage I've ever played. Literally 20 hours of just watching **** torture porn. What a mistake this was.
5150) The story is awful, the worst actuly.,I realy dont believe they would kill joel like this and made us play as his killer and be fine with it, and most importantly they want us to feel sorry for them too. I swear who ever wrote this story is a sick f*** thats for sure the gameplay is just the same as the first game only its slower.,7 years waiting for this. Nice job ND.
5151) The game is good technically. Great graphics. Good soundtrack. A slightly improved gameplay from the original. However, the selling point of the franchise which is story, was ruined badly. The twist is huge and it feels not logical at times. I would not recommend this game at full price. Buy it on sale with low expectation.
5152) I'm going to pretend that it is not the last of us. For me the last of us part 1 is the final game and has the final ending...
5153) Complete and utter trash. Yes, they put effort into it, they put millions of dollars into it. But it still somehow managed to be total garbage. I'm convinced that they spent money on fake reviews - I don't think game journalists, of all people, are beyond accepting a deal of "I'll give you the game before it's released, you give it a 10/10, and I'll give you $100,000, just sign this NDA".
5154) Absolute awful story driven by leftist propaganda which makes the whole game unbearable and stinky
5155) Dont buy it . dont buy it . dont buy it Dont buy it . dont buy it . dont buy it,Dont buy it
5156) The plot of the game sucks. It is full of lgbtq+ propaganda that doesn’t even serves the story. Complete garbage. Seriously, don’t buy it.
5157) The graphics are good, but the story and gameplay like dick head,  **** game afterall
5158) I still had good faith that those leaks where fake and those game journalist as usual like to suck a lot for cash to give high scores…I was like “I will be my own judge” so I bought the game, just to realize that what I have witnessed in game is even worse than those leaks… It is out of this world how badly N-Dog **** us the fan-base over!… I just want to know why!??!?!,,Graphics = 10/10,Gameplay = 5/10,Story =  - 10,Replay = 0,Would you recommend the game to friends?  No, because it will **** up peoples head with SJW BS.,Overall rating = 0,My 2 cents towards N-DOG:,Mentally challenged Dev’s / Story writers should not be allowed to destroy a great franchise. Leave the real work for the dev’s and story writers that know how to do stuff the right way!!!
5159) Absolute trash. I waited 7 years for this?  Completely disappointing. Time for a redo.
5160) Ruins the story from the 1st game. Do not buy this game or waste your money and time.
5161) Original game was a strong 8.5. Was it good - Yes.,Was it overrated - Yes.,Just finished TLOU2 - my god what have they done. Games are meant to be FUN. This was a chore to play. If it wasn’t for insomniac I’d switch to Microsoft next gen.
5162) Poor story telling. Boring and leaning way to hard for the woke. I could of been okay with Joel's death even tho it is a clear rip from the walking dead with Glenn, if you kill abby at the end. They should add a DLC alternative ending where u make a choice at the end to finish abby or not and then if they make a 3rd game then they could of decided what is cannon and maybe they would realize going woke isn't the the overwhelming popular choice. clear they don't care bout their fan base and they just want to push their agenda. Eff this game. To me last of us one is the end of this franchise.
5163) This game is just awful storyline wise the characters of Joel and Ellie aren't the same characters Ellie is so so dull, Joel is portrayed as a selfish useless character and Abby is just bad storyline wise her motives her hypocrisy in fact most of the main characters are hypocrites and the spoiled political views that is shoved down to our throat.
5164) The beginning ruins last of us for me. The first game and expansion were fantastic.
5165) That was the worst history i have ever seen,Lost any Will to play after 3 hours of the story,So sad
5166) I CAN'T BELIEVE IN 2020 WE PRIORITISE GRAPHICS OVER GAMEPLAY!!!!,The game us repetitive.,You either strangle an enemy or throw something at them.,You barely have any ammo for anything,Smh,Waste of money . SHOULD BE A MOVIE
5167) The Last Of Us is a single game. There is no sequel. This game doesn't exist.
5168) Trash story. Trash gameplay. Never played a game with so many cringe moments.
5169) They ruined the franchise, terrible story, agenda driven, DMCA takedowns everywhere, everything about this game is the perfect recipe for a disaster.
5170) It's obvious that you get to see critics reviews, not a single one of them is negative... for one single cause.,Anyhow, this game is targeted for the audience, and users, not critics, so trust me if you see more negative reviews, for users, then it's really that bad, and vice versa for the critics reviews.,Copy-Paste from the original game, with a terrible cheesy phony corny story any child could come up with.
5171) Ruining a great story for the sake of political leftism has become a classic in 2020. Ellie's LGBTness is forced down our throat to "own" any player who disagrees with it and the old white man loved by everyone in his synergy with Ellie is killed off cause he's old and white. Goodbye The Last of Us. 0/10.
5172) Stupid plot, renders everything else terrible by osmosis  - absolutely bizarre story decisions.
5173) Here where you can waste your money, Noughty dog thanks for let us waiting 7 years for a garbage
5174) What have you done...,The worst game ever...,What kind of game would force you to use the character you hate???
5175) The devs truly took the success of the first game, and turned it into a burning pile of absolute garbage. Do NOT buy this game if you enjoyed the last game, especially with regards to Joel and Ellie...
5176) Absolute garbage. Terrible gameplay and story. Disappointing after waiting so long for a sequel.
5177) Worst history, really the way to do the things it's not the better way, the game Is the best in graphics and phisics, but the history is the fail, everybody hates the way that naughtydog do the game history.
5178) Naughty Dawg along with sony lied with their promotions harassed twitter and youtube posters with illegal copyright claims that were magically dropped when lawyers got involved.   This review is to niel druckmann and Sony.   I was going to buy this game .I was going to buy a Ps5.  Not now.  I will be purchasing an xbox series x. Due to your treatment of the very people who pay your salaries and fo
5179) Verte Good Graphics, Really Bad story, It's sad the way they kill a character like Joel...
5180) This game just has such meh gameplay, why does it deserve a 95 for its mediocre gameplay and even outright self insert sex scenes from the director. I think this game does not even closely DESERVES a 95, at most a 70. Why kill off such an important character, like an hour into the game? Why cancel someone’s death, due to leaks? Why let the game leak at all? Completely ruined the one thing this game had going for it; the story. Awful game and Awful motives. Never returning again, EXCEPT to the store.
5181) Disappointed, boring and the most weakest sequel fron naughty dog...,The game play it's great, but the mission and history it's horrible.
5182) Wait years to play this game. I hid from all the spoilers and leaks, doubted all the bad comments, but I just finished it, and I can only feel sick. We didn't deserve this. Do they really care more about your political interests than the fans who support your study? Why do they destroy such a beautiful story with this junk? It is the same as The Last Jedi. This may be a good game at the graphics level, but this is not The Last of Us.
5183) The game is a train wreck and a a disgrace to modern story telling. How can anyone except hardcore Sony fanboys defend this mess? I usually avoid review bombing anything but years of review bombing by ps fanboys to much better games  has made me immune to it.
5184) Stupid politics, ridiculous story line, destroyed the main character and unpaide developers, because this there are many bugs.
5185) First one was a masterpiece. This one is an abomination. Joel died for nothing, along with the storyline , just to please the new order. Stay away unless if you want to experience the most dissatisfying middle part and ending in gaming history.
5186) i cant to talk about this game, just 10 due to graphicsa and 0 dut to story line -_-
5187) Pros: Graphics,Cons: Everything else,,I don't think a game deserves a perfect score just because it looks pretty.
5188) After many years of work and the long time between the games, I had expected to see a masterpiece but what I got was a burning pile of **** The gameplay is still just as good as the original and the graphics are just as good. However, the story is riddled with plot holes, the character development makes no sense what so ever. I had sat through the whole game and after it was over, I was very confused about what had naught dog was thinking. With killing off the main character just for shock, and then letting the murderer's walk was a waste of an amazing chance to make Ellie shine in a way that wasn't possible in the original. The characters are shallow with no depth. After this entire time and my 80 dollars for a pre-order, I could not be more pissed off at this game and the developers. I have played games that were free, that had better storylines and character development.  Please do not waste your time and money like I did.
5189) Very disappointing, thanks Sony and Naughty dog I'm not buying anything from you from now on. I hope the people responsible for this abomination get fired and get what they deserve.
5190) This game is massively corrupted. Corruption run deep in every aspect of it. There is nothing, literally nothing enjoyable about this game (except for the graphics), only things that will upset you if you’re coming from the first game of the franchise. This game is an abomination, a propaganda and it has a fu^*•g ZERO interest in its real customers. I am a 100% sure that most of the critics who reviewed this game spent ZERO seconds playing it, they are just praising how woke the game is which is really pathetic.
5191) Avoid.,,I’ve never left a review for a game before, but I was so disappointed with this game that I felt compelled to sign up and leave a review.,,I’m a big fan of TLOU Pt1, so I had high expectations for the follow up, which probably made my disappointment all the harder. The first game was all about learning to trust and gaining hope in a world that seemingly forgot what hope is. In the first game all the main characters, despite being opposite, were both likeable and relatable. From the hurt and weary Joel, to the full of hope Ellie.,,However, the makers of this game have decided that their mission is to “subvert expectations”. This wasn’t done subtly or intelligently, instead they seem to have gone to great pains to throw out everything good from the first game, and replaced it with some of the vilest characters ever, even if they wore the same name and faces. Honestly, Ellie would have made one of the biggest villains in any other game.,,And that’s not the worst part. The worst part is the game is boring. It appears somebody at the game studio decided graphic violence would add shock value and be “edgy”. Unfortunately the makers decided that if a little shocking violence was good, then repeating it every couple minutes must be better? To the point that it fast became totally meaningless, and then extremely boring. Don’t get me wrong, I don’t mind violence in video games, I’m also a big fan of the Doom series, but it is completely out of place here. In fact, thinking about it, Doom has a far better story than this dross.,,I’ve heard the game studio was trying to make people think about the morality of hate and violence, but it failed on two counts. Firstly the player has very little agency in this game, you have to do the violent / cruel things, or the game won’t let you progress, which separates the player from the consequence of the action. Secondly the game is so boring you could have hit me over the head with the message wrapped in a 2x4, but after the first hour I was so disengaged with the game I wouldn’t have noticed.,,I forced myself to make it to the end of the game (and I mean forced), in the hopes that it would get better. It never did.
5192) Pros:,- The Graphics,,Cons:,- Everything else,,The game was an absolute disgrace to the 2013 Masterpiece ,what in TARNATION is going on at naughty dog,,In conclusion : Don't buy it
5193) Waste of money. Honestly can't believe the games journos and critics have scored this game so high. They are bought and paid for! Naughty dog are pathetic, they really made a mess of the last of us 2. The story and characters are poor. its really a kick in the teeth for fans of the first game. Truly disappointing.
5194) The only good thing is graphic Story is bad and boring 11 hour in the game and im so bored already
5195) This game is a big trash , I don't believe the amount of **** in which the reviewers lie. We have the worst methods. The story is very, very, very, very, very bad. If you want to be tortured, buy the game.
5196) It is good in the graphic, technical section, but what really failed was the story, because it leaves a bad taste in the mouth, most of the players when the first game was recommended was for the story and you played it and the  I really think you were impressed, but this time it was somewhat disappointing
5197) Absolute disgrace of a game. They took everything good about the first one and threw it in the trash. If I could give a - score, I would.
5198) Greatest golf game in 2020, With stupid stories and characters made by SJW.
5199) I am extremely disappointed. the last two of us just killed my faith in games. yes, the game had potential. but the creative director decided that we needed to see the world through his eyes. thanks neil. Hope you are happy. I will not buy your games anymore.
5200) gameplay 9/10,graphics9/10,story 0/10  ... damn neil what have you done ...
5201) Instead of giving fans what they longed for, they went for pushing agenda and supporting LGBTQ, even thought that was never a part of the gaming world.,Also they have Netflix for that why invade the gaming community too?? We were happy and I bet even gay people and transgenders didn’t want to play as abby or have the story like this.
5202) Utter garbage. Killed the only good character within 2 hours. Naughty Dog you had a good run, go die now.
5203) Man, this games ends so badly,Like why would Ellie risk leaving her Dina to get revenge only to not kill Abby and lose Dina as well. Also Joel dying in the very beginning was wack af.
5204) One could argue that Game of Thrones Season 9 or Star Wars the last Jedi did it firs but no one mastered the art of taking a dump in your characters until the Last of Us 2 appeared. This is the prime example of how a story and the characters make up a game, no matter how pretty the game looks if its impossible to play like this game is even in the first 2 hours, but what really makes you stop playing and regret the $60 spent is when around the halfway through the story the game forces you to throw all the good experiences of the first game out the window and start doing things against your will. I refuse to take part and enable games to become political agendas.
5205) The graphics in this game are superb, the rest of it however is pitiful at best. The storyline is terrible and gameplay becomes highly boring and repetitive. I honestly would avoid this steaming garbage pile of a 'game' at all cost.
5206) sorry for english, this is google translator.,F Joel,The gameplay has not changed much.,many write that the game has such a rating because of LGBT people and strong women, but if you make Ally hetero and play for strong men, the game will not improve. her problem is in the plot: Joel's disgusting death at the very beginning (are you serious?) And in the remaining half of the game, the one who killed him plays.,Do developers really think this will be interesting? I was not interested, I do not even feel sorry for them. What was the message of the game? that revenge is bad? so do it at least well. in the end, they didn’t even give a choice to kill or not, what the hell ?! I dreamed of killing this Abby the whole game, and in the end it was SO disgusting that I didn’t even have words. In the first part, we followed the development of relations between Joel and Ellie, they were the center of the game, in the second part they try to transfer us to the other side of the barricades, but they do it so boring, so disgusting that there are no positive emotions at all. They tried to show that Joel was also wrong, that so many people died because of him that he lied to Ellie, but they didn’t even do it right, Abby and her company are still not sorry. Too bad this game was released. it would be better if it never happened. I could talk about the shortcomings of the game for a long time, but I do not want to waste my nerves on it.
5207) NaughtyDog, how can you do this to us after 7 years of waiting? That scene is unbelievable and unforgivable. Disgusting and despicable.
5208) Is very very very very game  you play mario is better then the last of us part 2
5209) I love “The Last Of Us” but I have never been so disappointed in a continuation of a great story except the new Star Wars trilogy. The Last Of Us Part 2 turned strong, smart, and confident beloved characters into weak, clueless, insecure, and plain gullible side characters. This shift from “The Last Of Us” to “Part 2” in character development was made in order to fit the story Naughty Dog set up to appease the current generations “Woke”, “Cancel”, and “edgy” culture. I am rating this a 0 due to the fact that “graphics” do not make a great game but a story does and this game does not even fall into the “it’s okay” category. Thank you Naughty Dog for the great games and even this attempt. Still a fan but a disappointed one.
5210) Worst story ever!,if Naughty dog want to make worst game for history.,Congratulations.,You made it.
5211) I could be a great game. But they ruined it, indon mind the gay relationships or the transgender girl. The gameplay is good but story and characters are pure ****
5212) Finished the game. Genius story!,Joel Last of Us 1: “I struggled for a long time with surviving. And no matter what, you keep finding something to fight for.”,Joel Last of Us 2: “Howdy stranger!! My names Joel! This is my brother, Tommy. I killed the Fireflies and am in hiding, my town is just down the road. Mighty big guns y’all got, how come you’re all looking at me weird and locking the door? ‘Sounds like you heard about me’ ya, know Joel that’s my name!”
5213) The story sucks and if I wanted gameplay I'd play another game like jesus christ it's so bad
5214) Another piece of garbage with crap mechanics and no replay value. Wrought with disgusting "progressive" stupidity. A truly repulsive experience.
5215) For people, this game is either awesome or awful. I feel like the devs are appeasing to snowflakes... but that's not a big deal. I've heard the story isn't that good...
5216) A very exhausting and tedious game. Lame jump scares, uninteresting story and characters, same old crap over and over again. You play as Ellie and get close to the end, only for it to switch to Abby and you have to relive the past again. So dang BORING!!! A **** attempt to get people to like and understand Abby. I forced myself to go through it because I wasted my money on it, honestly TLOU shouldn’t have had a sequel and I will just pretend this abomination never existed.
5217) It‘s a desaster. The storytelling and development of certain characters are horrible. Decissions of Protagonists are not reliable, espacially at the beginning, where the plot is being set. And: Is it still that special to be Gay that it needs to be mentioned all the time, even in the end as one of the last scenes? It‘s 2020 and ND failed to tell a lovestory of two women loving each other and rather told a „gay-story“ with a little bit of romace. Sorry but ND you failed here, its 2020 as mentioned and that the main character is gay should not be the main plot beside the revenge part, it should be treated as a small but normal part of her, and not the most important thing in her life, like what the hell, is this all that matters about ellie?,T. Wonderland
5218) Unfortunately I was expecting something much better. The story should be similar as the story of the first one. I am expecting better story for the continuation of the game.
5219) **** naughty dog. **** abby. **** ellie. **** Dinah. **** random thug dudes.
5220) Wtf is that ending Ellie let aby Alive wtf the mist bad ending and i hope this game isn't in the goty nomination cause its so garbage
5221) awful game ever.. No respect for last game... Go waste your money on another game.
5222) Couldn’t stand it. A real reprehensible experience all around. Waste of money - straight to the burnpit out back.
5223) You wait for 7 years for this **** Disrespect for fans. Disrespect for treating Joel as an NPC.
5224) STAY AWAY, I REPEAT STAY AWAY.,This game is nothing more then pr crap shoved down your through.,Its not worth a single penny, and has degraded a very reputable game franchise.
5225) The second part of the game with Abby was absolutely infuriating. Why did you even bother to make this trash of a game? To hell with your SJW crap, I'll stick with better games like JRPGs. Atleast, Japan knows better than to include **** takes on their games. This has really left a bad taste on my mouth.
5226) This is a lump of excrement.The screenwriter touched himself, but it made me sick and unable to eat.
5227) 7 years.. we‘ve waited 7 years only to be disappointed with your BS storytelling. You had 7 years to come up with the best story anyone could possibly come up with and this is the result. Shame on you ND. You did not just kill Joel in such a disrespectful manner, even the end was pathetic. Going to have to think more than twice now the next time before buying one more game from you guys.
5228) a silly game that literally killed the essence of the former and a story of teenagers with love problems in a world in ruins, the most stupid story, a child would invent better stories, but if he had known, he would not play it, even if it was free  , many graphics and a very silly story, better endorse a count because what they did was stupid
5229) HAS A GOLF MINI-GAME WITH JOEL AND YOU CAN ALSO MAKE SOME BIGOT SANDWICHES.,VERY EPIC!!!!!1!!1
5230) Terrible game that kills beloved characters off for no reason at all. Absolutely disgusting
5231) In the end the game made me kill a pregnant woman with a knife to the neck and now I need therapy...
5232) Game ruined at 360 degrees. History has been ruined, crippled.,They prostrated themselves to what is politically correct, a game ruined by propaganda.,How disgusting.
5233) This game has an ok graphics but it is not a very good game because this game is a propaganda
5234) Terrible story,gameplay is not very good and it looks like a movie,graphics are great
5235) This game is racist! Why did they discriminate Asian in the game! DON’T BUY IT!
5236) THE LAST OF US PART II, This game is lies and deceit. Why don't you be angry at this compelling LGBT concept? why joel?
5237) In one word : SUCK,It is a game that was made for the "progress" trash and Society Justice Warrior full of all the fashion instead of giving it a decent script is a disgusting game I lost my money
5238) I was so hyped when they annouced tlou 2 but this is nothing more than a game with good graphics, bad story and a terrible plot.
5239) The gameplay is not that amazing and poor characters and storyline and it’s not that hype like they announced it
5240) Joel dies in the worst way possible for a terribly written reason, and we don’t even get to avenge him in the end! What a waste
5241) The worst story in gaming history books ever. Even if it's free I won't buy it. Has no meaning or lesson or nice memory to take with it. Complete wast of time I'd rather spend 15 hours starring at a blank wall than playing this madness.
5242) This is a game that happens when the developer's passion is the political ideas about sexuality, gender-power, gender-role, SJW-communities overrides his passion for gaming.,This is a game is the same version of movies that include LGBTQ/Asian/Black for the sake of "Diversity" and empowering gender-role and his LGBTQ-fantasies.
5243) ahahahhaha very funny story im gonna cry right now how we could not killed abby no no no
5244) No it's not a zero, but the story is so ridiculously poor. I can't give this anymore than a 5. You killed off my favourite character...his death meaningless.,,No
5245) This game is an insult to the first and all of the first games fans it’s dreadfully bad and I’m sad to say this since I’ve been looking forward to it since they first teased it
5246) Bad game. For PlayStation 4 is the worst game. Very very bad. Is very bad this game.
5247) Game mechanics are same as the first one but the story is lame and you dont even like the character you play as.
5248) The Last of Us is still one of my favorite games ever, both history and narrative were the star of the show.  I bought a used PS4 so that I could play this game, I've tried to avoid any spoilers that were out, and finally, after waiting for so long...,,Wow, what an enormous let down.,,Graphics do look really nice, and the game play had some upgrades, but what was the most important, the story/journey is utter trash, don't waste your money like I did.
5249) After 7 years this the is the best story you could come up with, this show how trash of a team you had for this game hold this L
5250) This was a sequel hyped for damn nearly seven years only to be wasted by LGBTQ propaganda. This is nonsense, a game shouldn’t be tamed with left or right views but rather a good story that invokes a strong sense of attachment for the characters and their development. The anticipation for the sequel was subsequent from the good story telling of the first one. This is just ridiculous, whoever thought this plot was the best idea clearly has not learned from both Game of Thrones and Last Jedi. All of that talent wasted, you best believe I’m not buying Part III and I would like to play as either a female or male. By the way the only good parts of this game were the flashbacks. Congrats Naughty Dog, you just bought me a reason to vote Trump 2020.
5251) Terrible, terrible, terrible. This equality bullcrap will ruin the game industry if it isnt destroyed in its roots.
5252) i did not have account on metacritic before and made it specially to write my review here, previous game was one of the best games at that time when it was released and as for  last of us 2 its utterly garbage, don't waste your money, whole game is made based on sjw and political crap. devs smashed all expectations i had on second part of the game, btw this is what happens when devs listen to 3 rd party ppl like anita sarkeesian to how make games. maybe this will be a lesson to other companies.
5253) This game is a **** disgrace, they **** kill JOEL in the first 2 **** HOURS OF THE GAME to be replaced by a **** transgender **** instead, what a piece of **** ****
5254) Writers should apologize to everyone else who's worked in this game, because it looks amazing and the VAs are phenomenal. Unfortunately the convuluted story, and the pseudo-sophisticated way they chose to tell it, drags it back. A lot.
5255) horrible writing destroyed the game, nothing else can make up for it. do not recommend for anyone who enjoyed the first TLOU
5256) Thank you Neil Druckmann for those 64,68 dollars that I saved on this piece of **** and I advise you to talk more with Anita Sarkeesian and then the company will BE the most famous bankrupt because of feminism and other **** REMEMBER, FEMINISTS DON'T PLAY YOUR GAME. #SAVE YOUR MONEY
5257) Worst that I spected, the first one had a better history, and better line of gaming,makes me feel unsatisfied. But don't forget be the lgtb  thing... unnecessary? Yes. Killing my favorite character necessary ? No.
5258) Congrats for ruing a perfect game with a sequel that could not have been worse.,The game fake journalists reviews are a joke as always, money well spent.
5259) The story is just awful, full of plot holes, dumb writing, and one of the worst endings I've ever seen just to support a stupid theme. On top of that, the gameplay has barely improved since the first game released seven years ago, yet the same critics who took off points from red dead redemption 2 for not changing the gameplay loop enough seem to be silent about the last of us 2's lack of innovation in the gameplay department.
5260) A trivial and stupid story with irrational events and non-interesting characters from the banality of giving it this high rating, so all that happened in the game is the death of all and the characters
5261) The spoilers were true. Don’t buy the game, save your money. Trash. Trash. Trash.
5262) The **** story in a sequel ever. The gameplays okay though. Overall it’s a peice if ****
5263) a lot of sjw crap, bad history and a desire to please minorities spoiled everything.
5264) Everyone knows why this note, the others comments speak for me............................................
5265) I played this in one sitting for twenty hours straight and it depressed the hell out of me. The game is not a zero that said it gets a five because it was able to only deliver half of a good product. The gameplay is nothing new but is is polished and the graphic are the only standout thing. The story though is horrendous. It's like there is an awesome movie out there that everyone can agree is a classic and perfect on its own but someone in a office somewhere said "Hey let's make a sequel because money and make sure everyone we loved is now horrible or dead so there can be potentially another sequel" You only spend half the game playing as the characters you care about who are now **** and the other half playing as a horrible person that you are expected to identify with but you just want to not be playing as that character.
5266) horrible in every way. the gameplay is clunky. story is predictable and boring. the lead character feels hollow.
5267) I made it to 15 hours into this game and I just can’t play anymore. The story is bad, the game is bad, it’s just a bad game all around. They’ve pandered to the vocal minority on social media and put it into a game and expect their main demographic to swallow their identity politics. Every single game reviewer who gave this a 10/10 should be sacked immediately for giving a false review. People bought this garbage based solely on the say so of IGN and gamespot reviews.
5268) Okey. It was very hard to an avoid from spoilers. It was worthless thing... Now I’m feeling super upset. I just can’t believe they ruined beautiful first game....,Biggest disrespect ever.,There is only few good things about this game!,Best graphics, music was great, characters act, and Joel and Ellie’s flashbacks! And that’s it!,Other things are just terrible!,Story was very poorly written.,Joel’s death,Ellie’s terrible ending Tommy’s ending terrible too,And forced to play as Abby was just worst! Omfg i just want this game was never exist.,There is no ‘the last of us part 2’ for me,Now I understand why 50% of their employees left Naughty Dog!!!
5269) You can ruin this way.,Anyway, Joel and Ellie are the main characters.,,revenge? Hatred?,So what,,Why are you trying to teach users?,,Are users trying to enjoy the game at the expense of this?,,Our last ip is also dead, and we can't expect a bad dog anymore.
5270) The game is a deceive, He edited the trailer to make players misunderstand the content of the game,,I feel very angry, this is not my explanation.  This does not turn.
5271) It's just a game, but the  producer fill lots of his value in it which is totally unrelated to the first generation.
5272) This game is an abomination. Its a 14 year old wattpad fac fiction writer's dream. They took a beloved character and spat on the legacy of good apocalyptic game writing. Joel reminds us and myself of a good dad, that we may not have in reality or maybe we do, that gets killed off by a mentally ill person with no regard for life. Joel saved Abby, gave her a chance. She abused the power she was given and in return Ellie let her live. This is garbage. The self inserted sex scene and the spitting on Joels grave reflects on Neil Druckmann's fetishes and disregard for fans and to those who see the bond between Joel and Ellie as father and daughter. At the beginning of the Last of Us pt1 Joel lost his daughter and throughout the game he gained that bond back with Ellie. TO RUIN A PERFECT OPPORTUNITY TO SHOW HOW THEIR BOND GREW IS A WASTE! THEY DIDN'T EVEN GIVE HIM AN HONORABLE DEATH, THEY TORTURED HIM!! **** this game, is boring and id rather play a wattpad fanfiction video game adaptation. Good riddance to Naughty Dog and Neil Fetish Druckmann.
5273) Visuals and graphics cannot make up for the awful story. This is a disgrace to the original game. This is as bad as season 8 of GOT. DO NOT play this game if you love the first. This does not deserve, in any form or fashion, any award or title.
5274) It's awful. RIP Joel, and the ending is TERRIBLE. Do NOT play this game. It shoves its agendas down your throat, and is a general slog to play through, in regards to the writing. I do NOT recommend. Graphics and gameplay don't make the game, especially one that's supposed to be narrative driven.
5275) dont buy....   This game is more of a political statement than a game. It’s like a bad movie at this point. Forced, out of place characters to push a political agenda. The people reviewing are not “homophobic” or “anti transgender”.
5276) Bad Story to make ppl fell sad about TLOU part1.  Waste ppl’s feeling from TLOU PART1 with Joel and Ellie.
5277) After an hour of playing this game, i don't feel like doing it anymore. Thanks for killing the favourite character of many just to get more attention and advertising.
5278) It's a social justice warrior game with horrible character development. After Joel gets killed by a random character, you lose the ability to finish this game. I spoiled the rest of the game because I simply did not care about finishing it through. The ending did not bring justice either, which helped me confirm that I did not want to finish this game. Unless they release the ability to have a second ending where Ellie gets her revenge on Abby, I have absolutely no interest in finishing this game. Total waste of money. Also, how would Abby get ahold of steroids? The world has gone to hell and there's no way she knows how to create steroids with 0 resources. Why are we forced to play as her as well? No one likes her. It's Naughty Dog's first bad game and do not let delusional simps make you believe this game is worth playing because it's not.
5279) neil druckman spits at joel and says “burn in hell” , **** this **** game
5280) Player: What's new about The Last of Us Part II?,Naughty Dog: How I ruin this game. Good Game and Have Fun.
5281) It’s the ending man...the unsatisfactory ending. I do all this work- all of this revenge, literally kill a pregnant woman, for what? To let the one person I was hunting down the entire time go?! I already killed everyone else at this point might as well finish the job!!
5282) They took everything from part 1 and destroyed it. Great job, ND. Please don't make a part 3. This sequel does not exist for me.
5283) They try to lure you in with the pretty graphics and the world you know and love, only this time instead of coherent world building and thoughtful interplay between characters you know and love you're essentially being lectured to by feminists. This is supposed to be your entertainment and escape. "Look what they did to my boy"
5284) What a ridiculous storyline this game is, it is ironic that all the scores...
5285) I am glad that this сrаp will be remembered only by the corrupt ratings of corrupt journalists, 3/10 from users and memes, and not by the GENUINE PLOT, lol.
5286) The game is sucks..If you ask why i'll tell you why..The story are sucks the gameplay too and ofcurse the ghrapichs.
5287) Depression porn. I cannot fathom why this was the direction they took. These characters deserved better.
5288) That is not what I was expecting from 7 years of waiting the game. The story is very bad compare the  last of us part one.,I do not want to play for a girl body builder who killed Joel.
5289) Actually disgusting, a narcissistic duckman wrote a trash story, just to make you feel bad
5290) Just as poor mechanics as the first game.  Unlike the first game though they replaced a decent story with disgusting degenerate sexual propaganda.  If you thought the zombies would be the grossest part of this game then you are mistaken. At this rate they’re going to glorify pedophilia and bestiality in the Last of Us Part 3.
5291) One of the worst games I have ever played. This sequel is a disgrace to the original, destroying everything the original stood for. The Last of Us Part II is a game full of hidden political and social agendas, alienating the core fanbase.
5292) Where do I start? It’s like Ellie is a different person. The way Joel died it stupid and disrespectful. Ellie kills all those people (who did nothing to her) just to let Abby live. 0/10.
5293) The Last Of Us is an interactive movie with a gameplay that enhances players experiences. Gameplay is average, but the story, which is the main point of playing this kind of games, is terrible. I feel like they have hired some unemployed blue haired diversity specal people to write this garbage. All the hardwork of so many talented programmers and 3d artists goes to a waste because of some garbage people. "Movie" game with **** story  X good gameplay = 0x10 = 0
5294) Why naughty dog? Why?,So you took all the care and love you put into the first game, and switched it for a stupid plot full of hate and bleakness.,BS revenge story with no pay offs in the end.
5295) if I wanted political agenda I'd watch CNN or Fox instead. Absolute trash, will not recommend.
5296) A story driven game with a terrible story.,We spend the game being beaten over the head with the notion that violence causes more violence, and revenge is a terrible cycle.,Then the game ends with Abby getting her revenge and riding off into the sunset with her best friend. Meanwhile Ellie denies herself revenge and loses everything, even two fingers.
5297) Neil Druckman's new trannie-sim sexual fantasy! Please play through this game if you enjoy throwing up during grotesque sex scenes, enduring hours worth of tasteless and stiff dialogue, and questioning the motivation of characters that seem like they were whipped up by some preteen egirl with the self imposed last name "brat". This is quite possibly, the biggest cluster **** to ever grace gaming!,Incredible!
5298) an insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fansan insult to fans
5299) The last of us part 2 has a user score of 3.3 and no this is not only because of the leaks thats ridiculous! Many many many games have being leaked before!!! For example Uncharted 4...Furthermore is not everybody who gives this game a 0 or 1 ultra conservative, i know im not. And yes i have played the game for many hours now its a sh... show and the biggest gaming disappointment of my life! Im almost 34... game of thrones season 8 aint sh.. ladys and gentelman. This is how ET fans must have fellt after the release of the legendary bad atari game. To be fair the only good thing that i can say is that the world and the gameplay are alright! I have no problems with LGBT ppl what so ever but in this game its force feed! A true abomination!S: playing as Abby can only be topped by playing Hitler, Stalin or Mao Zedong ... you get the point
5300) You had a winning formula and wiped your butt with it. This game sucked on many levels.
5301) I Just can’t take anymore of this garbage Hell I made an account just for this **** I’m tired of people putting there agenda into things I love do yourself a favor and just pretended like there never was a sequel this is for you Joel. **** you Neil Druckmann.
5302) Take that ZERO score, you piece of SJW REPTILES    HAHAHHAHAHAHHAHA
5303) Terrible story arc compared to the first game. Another clear example how identity politics and bad writing are destroying all current series, movies and games. The story is unfulfilling at best, bitter ending and lacks any emotional attachment other than Joel dying for nothing.
5304) Why ND,What a bad story, it doesn't have anything good, just the graphics and some gameplay, but everyrhing else is just trash. Why you killed joel in that way. Either you can make a good story to give us an idea about what is going on here or a good argument. And wtf with all that LGTB  and "social correct" You fckd this game and the characters either.
5305) No this isnt a 0 game come on kids, the graphics, gameplay design they are all triple A, but this isnt a 100/100 game EITHER that was obiously biased media press writing what ND wanted them to write.,the history on the other hand (and for a guy like me sees the history in the game as the most important part of it) well, the plot holes and turning of events were made as if they didnt knew their own characters, theres a point when you feel that the game is longer that it should or need to be.  oh and they make you play like half the game with someone you give a **** because wow thats a plottwist!.,,and the problem with the plot was never the SJW agenda. no, is the poorly execution of events that felt or missplaced or forced.
5306) Pls don't waste your money on this garbage. You'll thank me later. If you value your health don't buy this game.
5307) One of most poorly written triple A stories I’ve ever played. Terrible plot twist. The game is full forgettable characters. The game also constantly tries to shove the developers woke agendas down your throat.
5308) This is the best bad story every in games history I cant believe this is the part 2 of last of us the part one was great but this part is really really bad don't but this game
5309) It probably deserves a higher score, somewhere around 3 or 4, but only if you haven't played the first game and have absolutely no fondness for Joel or Ellie, because this game destroys them. It's like they're not even the same character with some of the choices they make. All new characters are bland and just as thoughtless. Then there are the countless flashbacks that drag the game on, with pointless quests and an insane POV during a fight. Moments of extreme violence became desensitized earlier than halfway through the game and often seem baseless. The only good aspect was of course the graphics. Some moments I almost enjoyed but they were tainted by the residue of how poorly all the preceding and sequential events played out. Very disappointed with how it turned out; not worth a single penny.
5310) You read about story already and all this tolerance that flying in your face is annoying as F.,,If I could return this game like in Steam, I would return it in half an hour.
5311) how you going to do our boy joel dirty like that just to get some type of shock out of the player and that ending god no they really going for the to be continue like why wont even say what happens to avoid spoilers but its all just so pointless in the end nothing matters i loved the last of us 1 but these is just bad other then the graphics the game is just bad if you really want to play the last of us just play the first game its way cheaper and way better story.
5312) this game is disaster,they killed my most lovely characters,there is no reasonable killing part and doesn't make sense every single chapter,i strongly suggest you,DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME,if you played last of us 1.
5313) Techinical graphics is good, undeniably. But come on, this game is base on the story, and the story **** up, the character development, the choices.... huge disappointment.
5314) False advertising. Being woke. Treating the protagonist like garbage. You name it. I don't like it at all
5315) This game has legit the worst writing I have ever seen in a gaming industry and Abby is one of the worst if not the worst character ever. Why the hell would you ever force players to play as her/him? I dont give a damn about her/his story. The ending of this game does not make any sense.
5316) The game does not deserve to be purchased, regardless of its merits (which are few, and overblown). The story works to actively destroys everything the prequel had been building: well-known characters act in opposite ways compared to their previous selves, and new characters are not defined by their nuances and behavior but are just cardboard cutouts marked only by their identity politics group. Naughty Dog has written a Last Jedi and managed to kill a beloved franchise forever.,,Even worse, the technical merits of the game are arguably not as good as the prequel. The pretty environments feel now like soulless Quixel asset flips, and the game animations are thousands upon thousands of motion capture segments weirdly blended together by something which feels more like an AI than any kind of human-made plan. The end result is something which looks amazing in a static frame or a small motion segment, but doesn't feel right or cohesive once you are playing.,,The gameplay has been simplified and dumbed down considerably compared to the predecessor, where it was already thin. Even worse, the changes made are never there to make the game better, but to make the developer's job easier. An example is the addition of tall grass as a stealth mechanic, an unwelcome gaming trope which allows them to get away with much worse level design. Multiple issues which were present previously but were unimportant due to the nature of the prequel (inconsistent control response, shooting issues, out-of-control secondary animations getting in the way of your stealth, poor enemy AI, and more), now return but are way more prevalent since the game is way longer, has worse pacing, and the writing is no longer able to carry the weight of the game. It's just a lazy job after lazy job. At the end of the day, this game was not made as something intended to be played, but to be watched. And, since you have zero agency and zero choices during the game, I'd say the optimal platform to play the game is YouTube and not PlayStation.,,The entire game feels like it was made by factory robots, except for the story bits, which seems to be written by an Internet troll instead. It deserves a 0 not only because that's how it will make you feel after trying it for a while, but because this is an extremely dangerous trend which can end up destroying the entire AAA gamespace. Do not listen to the dozens upon dozens of 10/10 'professional' reviews which talk nothing about the game's blatant faults and are nothing more than glorified press releases.,,You should not buy this game.
5317) Waited 7 years for this hot pile of garbage.  10/10 gameplay. 10/1000 story.
5318) I will be forever saying this game ended with the first ones DLC.,Did a terrible job of representing LGBT community, and the outstanding graphics couldn’t save this seemingly rushed and forcibly political storyline.,It’s a real shame to see one of your favorite developers ruin a great game, maybe if druckman put as much effort into the story line as he did overworking and abusing his employees we would have a great sequel.
5319) bad story.dumb plot twist.,graphic 9,Story 1/10,Characters 2/10,Gameplay 6/10,SJW  0/10 dont waste your money
5320) Nothing makes sense in this game at all , Joel dies in the most stupid way possible to a character that we never saw before (Abby) IN THE FIRST 2 HOURS OF THE GAME , And we don't even get to avenge him , pathetic !!
5321) The story is absolutely atrocious. The way they treat beloved characters is just offensive. Don't buy this game!
5322) It was bad.  Killing off main characters, cringe worthy preachy ness, disappointing character development.
5323) Do not ever trust a single reviewer ever again that rates this game any higher than a 1/10.
5324) I’m gonna cut this short, because you probably feel the same way I do. The graphics and sound are good, not as good as they showed earlier and compared to the first game which came out 7 years ago, but still good for a game. The characters and story are pitifully bad. So bad that I can’t stomach talking more about the subject before seeing red and losing my **** I don’t mind main characters dying or whatever, when done well, it works. But this isn’t anywhere near well. Far from it. New characters that they try to shove down my throat are badly done fan fic quality trash. Don’t get me started on the Neil Druckmann insert sex scene. 2020 continues to be an abomination on all fronts. Oh and one last thing, all the 10/10 reviews showed me that 95% of the game journalist sites are either bought out or wouldn’t know a perfect game if it came and bit them on their ass. Either way, massive hit to their credit. Massive hit to gaming. What a **** show this is guys. Shame.
5325) This game is a sh**show. The leaks were right so my mistake for buying it anyways cause this game is horrible. This story is a mess and they should be embarrassed to have made such an awful piece of trash they try to call a game
5326) Trash game !!!! Don't know what game critics are playing but couldn't get past the story. Terrible game!!!
5327) Great visual style. The average gameplay. But the plot is terrible, this is an absolute abomination... seven years waiting for a great sequel and they create a ridiculous story like that. Change the screenwriter.
5328) The story isn't that great, It's also horribly written..,The first game had an amazing story, but this one, it's like I'm watching a teenage movie..
5329) Cant even call this garbage the last of us, should’ve just call it a new name, with different characters, but they just ruined something great
5330) Gameplay nothing changed much but as for story a complete Sh**the worst game in history they should just delete the whole thing
5331) This game is not a 10 or a 100 or whatever. Idk what all the critics are smoking, I gave it a zero because I feel critics have over-scored it. Otherwise I’d give it a few points for it being a pretty movie game? There’s better shooters out there and better stories too. Stop trying to subvert expectations and start making better games.
5332) Worst story ever!!!! They just crewed my favorite game, and made me realize Final Fantasy X-2 was well made sequel
5333) Liberals, SJWs, and LGBT degeneracy ruined a once good story. Everything I once loved has been destroyed by these heathens.
5334) After decades in a post-apocalyptic world all what humanity cares about is talking about a girl sleeping with another.,These whiners (LGBT movement) after destroying every beautiful thing family, society, universities, values even common sense they are moving to mess with gaming world.,I think we have to boycott this game and make it clear to everyone who's daring to drag us to such agendas, even when your name is naughty dog, that we don't buy such garbage (stories).
5335) JOEL DIES,TOMMY DIES, FOR nOTHING JUST FOR A TRASH REVENGE STORY THAT TURNS OUT BEING NOT A REVENGE STORY BECAUSE THEIR KILLER DOESN'T DIE IN THE END WHEN ELLIE HAD THE CHANCE TO KILL THEM. **** STORY NIEL COCKMANN.
5336) Its a game that destroys everything the first built, this is Neil's political statement. A political statement that comes from his fetishes and a life were he never needed to be a man, weak men like him are the downfall of gaming, dont give this pervert any money and dont support child mutilation.
5337) It hurts to give on of my favorite franchises of all time a zero but wow, just wow. The gameplay is literally copy and paste from the first with I will admit amazing graphics, but everything else is such a letdown including one of the worst stories in the history of media. When you try to force an ideology down the audience's throat when your main objective is to be building off the original game. Will never buy another game with this director attached to it.
5338) The story is god awful stupid and is not worth anyone's time and money. 7 years of waiting for disappointment
5339) They destroyed and simped the heroes of the first game in a gross way almost never seen before.
5340) Gameplay is not bad but it has many many problems and bugs , story is terrible and im so upset to be waiting for this for 4 years of my life , im so sorry for noughty dog !!
5341) One of the biggest disappointments in the video game industry. The first game was a masterpiece but not because of its gameplay, mechanics, or graphics. It was great thanks to its storytelling skills. They totally destroyed every beautiful theme that they build in the first game. Stop putting ''sjw'' to everything.  Not worth 60$.
5342) The creation team destroyed the franchise. It's Gross. Spend your Money in something Else.
5343) This game is a movie simulator, but rather than it being good it is a bad movie.
5344) I’ll start with the pros since there aren’t many. Level design is good. Environment design is GREAT. These artists did their jobs very well and deserve to be mentioned, the games numerous shortcomings are not their fault. Now, the cons. Unbearably bad writing.,Lack of thematic cohesion.,Unbearable characters and having to PLAY as characters you hate.  I won’t expand on this because of spoilers, but even Ellie doesn’t feel like Ellie anymore. Everyone is stupid, petty, and does ugly things for no reason. You’re constantly saying to yourself ‘no one would do that’.,Uninspired and boring gameplay. There’s a jump button now. You essentially never use it. Oh, also you can dodge. Somehow these additions make the gameplay even worse than the originals. I could go on and on but the game is just so ugly, so,stupid, so hateful, and ultimately so pointless I just want to forget I ever even touched it.
5345) This game is a prime example of pushing a narrative that no one but SJW's wanted. Absolute and utter trash story. The gameplay and graphics aren't bad at all, but that's all the game has going for it. I have to ask what are these paid critics smoking when reviewing this game. Like 10/10? WHAT??? How much did ND pay you for that review? Anyway I just can not get over how garbage these new characters are and the story as a whole. I don't get why games need to push this garbage narrative of equality down peoples throats. It is very obvious what they are trying to do. I'm not saying that anything is wrong with being gay or trans the problem is when you keep shoving this garbage SJW **** that no one cares about there is a clear message you are trying to convey. All I want to do is play the game kill some zombies and have a good or somewhat story that will make people who played the first game happy. But instead got nothing remotely close to that. Naughty Dog wake the f*ck up you should be ashamed of this disappointment of a story. To the paid critics that probably couldn't beat the intro of the game b4 writing a 10/10 review you guys are out of your minds.
5346) the  game  play  very good  and  the  story  is   very very  very  bad   ****  lust of us  part 2
5347) Neil druckmann's revenge porn for the first game, it's ironic because the first game was directed by a woman who left the studio after Neil kicked her out, she made something amazing, one of if not the best game of this console generation. The game looks amazing but the horrible story makes it hard to notice the beautiful scenery, this game makes you try to sympathize with someone who killed your father or raped your mother, so much hypocrisy, just horrible.
5348) Trailers for this game tricked the consumers into completely different story that would include the previous cast, comepletely changing scenes in the final product.  What I got in the end was more like a movie than a game.  In a game with such potential TLOU2 spits on everything it worked towards for a ending conclusion that leaves you feeling disappointed and uneventful for any future stories in this world. I am not giving this a 0 purely to spite this storytelling, the gameplay itself feels like its stuck in the previous generation, the only positive note was the difference in enemy types which I enjoyed. Naughty Dog has become creatively bankrupt, and I cant continue supporting a studio that slave drives its workers.
5349) I think I don't need to explain anything, this is just stupid, I don't know what Druckmann was even thinking...
5350) Fans of the series waited 7 years for a follow-up to one of the greatest stories of gaming. Would the sequel develop on finding a cure? Exploring the roots of the virus? New adventures with both Joel and Ellie? F*** no.Let's kill a beloved MC for shock value, demand players to play a shallow character (joel saves her life and she just shotguns and golfs his head in) that no one gives two **** about,,plot the entire game on revenge after revenge and in the end force our character to do exactly what most players dont want.Plus there is so many plotholes through it all,and most character's are like "Hey it's me this is my story"(and one in particular just exists to justify a pregnency, then dies like a **** dog) and then  we never see them again.,,One thing, that i did like story-wise was the relationship of Ellie and Dina. It felt natural and believable.I enjoyed that.But it all falls apart on this mess of a story,,Gameplay is awesome, but the story ruins it all.(After all it's a narrative story) Also, Sony false advertised JOEL in the trailers. JOEL appeared on many parts of the trailers pointing that there would be an adventure with the duo, but they fking replaced it with Jessee.Also the flashbacks of TLOU were altered to comply with this story.,,A mess of a game. How low did naughty dog fell.,,Worse that this **** game is the "critics". How dare they all give 100's on this mess?,I wouldn't accept the rumor that sony pays for reviews, but in this case...it's more than evident.
5351) nice graphics, but the history was destroyed, the game is ruined for me, sorry
5352) Graphics: Amazing,Story: Terrible,,This game just killed a character that's been alongside with us and the Developers just had to kill him right into the beginning. Also, the ending doesn't make any sense. Those who bought the game, I recommend you for a refund if possible. $60 for a trash game is a waste.
5353) Thanks to Sony and ND for ruined the game. I just wonder what the ..ND was thinking? I just can't think again about TLoU P2. they ruined the story. gameplay are exactly the same as it was in the past. Reviews are abseloute disgusting shame on critic for giving this game a high rate just for Femenism. are they blind? they gave the game 10 out of 10 just for the graphics????
5354) The PC element is too protruding. The story I wanted was not a revenge because it was the story of Eli and Joel.
5355) bad story... stupid dialogues....hideous characters...nothing good in this game just a piece of ****
5356) Sigh, aren't there focus groups to avoid disasters like this?,I'll be quick and straight to the point. I played and loved the first game because of Joel and Ellie. I knew that Joel wasn't going to make it in this game but God Dam!!! They did him dirty in this one. Just seeing a beloved character whom many of us taught was untouchable get treated like that is flat out disrespectful to the fans.,This game was supposed to be about their growing relationship and how Eliie was going to cope with the truth from the first game. But no, they quickly took all that away with a swing of a golf club by probably the worst video game character to date.,Then to play with Abby for 10 hours was horrendous and sitting through these meaningless side story  between the different factions and how one character is a tranny, but wants him/her Mom to accept it was too much because at this point, WHO THE **** CARES!!! THE MAIN CHARACTER WAS KILLED FOR NO (D)UCKING REASON AND SEVEN YEARS OF CARING AND INVESTING EMOTIONS FOR ELLIE AND JOEL ARE FOR NOTHING.,....Honestly, I hate this game and NG from here on out.
5357) The focus on Personality Politics destroyed this game with their Feminist Ideology and SJW Politics.,Political Garbage.
5358) Naughty Dog absolutely butchered this game — in what world can you kill off the main character within 90 mins of gameplay. Moreover, Joel is renowned for his survival ability and not trusting strangers. So how does it make sense that he saves a stranger, follows her back to her hideout, introduces himself and Tommy and tells them they live not too far from here. In what world does Joel do that??,ND you have gone mad if you think you can get away with this.
5359) Every time someone ask me why i like videogames my answer always include titles like The last of us, Mass effect, Dragon age and just like those last mentioned, TLOU 2 join the ranks of games that went from being examples of quality, well written histories, moral questions and just plain epicness to being a sad attempt to mimic greatness and failing in doing so, while also showing down your throat their political views, it feels like being forced at gunpoint to eat crap while asking "why are you such a pig!"
5360) What a let down from the first game. Sacrificing a good story to a virtual signal to a group of people that are not even your target audience is such a bad decision. Instead of using resources on paying the developers, naughty dog is paying the shills to say this is the best game ever. What a joke. Save your money people.
5361) This isn't about LGBT characters or politics. I'm trans. This is about the game **** on Joel and Ellie and the plot making no sense. The game focuses on surprising audiences, and in doing so has the characters make terrible decisions. There is no respect for beloved characters or good storytelling
5362) Tommy Has No Emotions,Joel Gets His Head Smashed,And Ellie is an idiot  like revenge, ha whats revenge in this game
5363) The story is an insult to the fans ! This game is so bad , don’t buy it ! It should had ended with the first , they ruined everything
5364) This game is very political and virtue signaling and has bad writing. Killing characters off for no reasons.
5365) This game is awful and playing it will render you physically disgusted.,,The only positive of this game is its graphics.,,The gameplay is the same as 7 years ago (unremarkable), but drags on horribly thanks to terrible level design/pacing.,,The whole basis of this game is its story and character development. The absolute mutilation of this story/character set needs no introduction. Completely forced, contrived, and repulsive leftist themes/agendas were shoved into every inch of the game, thus completely ruining the game in the most physically repulsive way possible.
5366) This game it's a bad copy of The Walking Dead! Abbie it's Negan, Joel dies like Glenn, Ellie it's a female copy of Carl (bad written), and the plot just the same! They forgive Abbie, just like they forgive Negan. AMC-FOX should sue SONY-Naughty Dog for © and intellectual stealing. Don't buy it! Better watch last seasons of the Walking Dead!
5367) Great story-NO,Beautiful characters-NO,Interesting gameplay-NO,Gay characters-YEEES, exactly what we needed.
5368) Bad writing, bad story, bad lgbt, bad game, bad 60 dollars, bad ending,Just freaking buy ff7, p5r, ghost of tsunima or doom eternal. Worth of 60 dollar rather this pointless sequel.
5369) Oh yeah you may buy your meta score but you cant buy users score go .... yourself with your disgusting game. YOU ARE A SHAME FOR GAMING COMMUINTY PLEASE STOP MAKING GAMES
5370) This is how you **** on a great game, i will sell this crap today, please don't support this bull****. Woke agenda.
5371) Wow they completely ruined this game. What a horrible conclusion to the first game’s brilliant character arcs.
5372) Garbage utter garbage! I bought this excitement and was immediately dissatisfied, the jump mechanics are a joke and the story.....I was not happy with.
5373) If it can be a 10/10 surely can also be a 0/10.,The fact that you think pulling this off was "okay" says a lot about the state of this industry.
5374) First off let me just say that this was the worst gaming experience I've ever had. Never have I seen a video push an agenda so hard in my life. What makes it worse is the fact that all these big companies that review games for a living are too afraid to upset a tiny minority of people. Agendas and politics do not belong in video games, plain and simple. It ruins the experience for everyone that doesn't want to see or hear that. If you want you see it just watch the news and keep it out of video games. Video games are a way to relax and escape our reality, not to pick up where the evening news left off (minus the post-apocalyptic Zombies of course) but having said that the graphics look incredible. That's the only positive thing I can really say about The Last of Us Part 2.
5375) Best PS4 Game of 2020? Paid reviews. Money can't buy user reviews for this trash game.
5376) destroyed the history of the game, congratulations to those involved ... game Trash
5377) At least you should allow us to choose the ending in our own way. All the feelings I had after the end of the game is something inside me has disappeared. It’s hurt like everything going to be zero. I respect you, Naughty Dog, but... /I’m crying
5378) The game is just glorified LGBT misery porn. The game fails to establish meaningful relationships with other characters.
5379) This is basically a big fail, they ruined the game , I liked more the part 1 story line
5380) As someone who loved the first game , this sequel is a complete waste of time and don't deserve the hype it got , the first time I saw the leaks were Joel being hit by a golf club I said to my self I will give another chance and play the game until I saw another leak of Joel saving Abby from a infected attack then I lost my **** and said I'm not playing it but I take it back and said I will play it and see what's the ending will be , so after I said that I searched TLOU2 on YouTube and i saw the ending and omg it's so bad the game of thrones s8 is way more better then this **** , basically the ending is tommy finds Ellie and dina with their baby in a house , tommy gave Ellie we're Abby would be so Ellie goes after her and find her hanging on a tree and she was so skinny , cut her down with Lev and waited her to get on the boat until she grabbed her hair and fought , Ellie was going to kill her then she remembers Joel sitting playing some music with the guitar and stopped, and them she spares her and till got to go , I have waited 7 years for Thai **** , really I mean really really , I'm sad and mad and I hope Neil **** would **** die .
5381) No one would accept the plot, go fuk yourself naughty dog. I really appreciate your game before, never again. Performed a piece of **** in the best way.
5382) Absolute trash and a waste of money, the only thing I liked about this game was the flash backs.
5383) I WANT A REFUND!!!! This is without doubt one of the worst game I have ever played!! Absolute disaster game. DON'T BUY THIS GAME, NOT WORTH EVEN 1$. The story is just God awful... I don't know what to say anymore, im speechless how they ruined the game. I can't believe I've waited 7 years for this.
5384) They kill off Joel, the creative director put himself in a sex scene with Abby (she kills Joel btw) The story is so **** dumb with some **** only happening to make the story go forward but it feels so unfinished and rushed, the ending shows Abby (the bad guy in this for the main characters) having a happy ending as our main character has a **** sad ending, losing everything. **** off with this mistake of a game.. The last of us part 2 does not exist in my mind after this. **** off!
5385) I was tlou fan untill i play this game.,First this game is very expensive in my country. it is 500 tl in turkey and it is a lot of money for us. i dont know is it expensive for other countries. If i wasnt fan of first game i wont be buying it.,I bought it but this story made me crazy i was laughing at the ending.WTF i spend 500 tl for this ****,I dont care about graphics. I just wanted to see how things went and i am **** now.,Btw i am barely writing this
5386) The franchise was ruined by a people who didn't understand the characters at all
5387) No fk,Noooooooooooooooooooq is the afternoon time to arrive tomorrow afternoon I am just going to meet you
5388) Woke, SJW trash held up by a shill media.  Don't buy this garbage They killed Joel and stick in what looks like a trans woman
5389) This could have been a amazing game but they made it into a Last Jedi. If someone is still unaware about the leaks, read them
5390) Play as your dad’s killer simulator. Absolute trash and insulting to your fan base. Really disappointed after everything I’ve seen from the Last of Us story. I’ll just end it with the expansions in my head thank you. The only good thing about this game is it’s graphics. I went into this knowing that Joel would most likely die because that’s how the story would naturally progress. However, forcing us play as his killer for a good portion of the game and trying to make us see them as a good person is just a slap in the face. The creators were very obviously trying to make something thought provoking but it fell flat and became a basic run around revenge story. It’s disappointing after how amazing the first game was. I’m really sad that this is what they chose to do with what could’ve been a wonderful sequel. Note: I usually don’t feel a need to post reviews for games because I think everyone should have their own opinion. Seriously though, don’t waste your money on this.
5391) The failure of 2020. The worst plot and ending. I have been waiting for 7 years for it...
5392) 1 for the gameplay, that's it, what a way to ruin a great history with forced lgbqwerty+ characters, left behind had them but they actually were good, those don't, rip the last of us, you are gonna be missed (2013-2020)
5393) It's **** I haven't played it myself because I was skeptical and didn't want to throw 60 dollars down the drain so I just watched a full walkthrough, and man am I glad I saved those 60 bucks, I urge you to do the same, truely just a disappointments.
5394) Weed, politics and killing the best and most loved character. What a mess of a "game"
5395) They killed the main characters and the game os filled with progressism, awful.
5396) Whos idea was it for killing Joel in the first hour!?  Just finished the game.  Great job lying to your fans and customers with the false trailers.  Great job getting your story leaked due to poor security.  I cant believe I waited 7 years to play as the most hated character for 10+ hours!?!  What you did was lazy.  No multiplayer so let's bloat the run time and draw out the story.  My goodness what happed at your studio!?
5397) I played this game as a dedicated fan from 2013. The direction of mechanics, storytelling and We’re well below 0. Don’t waste your money unless you want to be depressed and upset with yourself for playing as Joel’s killer . You’re happier in today’s coronavirus filled world.
5398) Joel in the first game wanted to survive. He got impaled and he didn't die. And in one part in the game he know that a guy "hurt" in the middle of the street is a trap. He did a rampage in the hospital at the end. Now in part 2 he was dumb enough to trust some people with Tommy and later get in a room with some danegrous looking people. He wouldn't do that in the first game.,And gets killed 2-3 hours in the story, by some one buff looking "Abby" and you play as her. And the  ending sucks Ellie does survive but dosen't get her revenge.
5399) Very bad game don’t recommend to play it and very very very bad story i hope it will be the last part of the sequel
5400) There's no place for pol1tics in games. I'm truly dishearthened by the turn my favourite game series has made,
5401) No one wanted this to be the story, this is kind of a slap in the face for all us fans who waited 7 years for this sequel. I don't care about Dina and I don't care about abby's backstory. 0/10.
5402) The age of Druckman is over, Metacritic is back on the menu. Warning to all who are reading this, this game is not canon and is instead developed by a small Indie team of recently graduated Highschool students, who have no degree or talent and are instead using this game as a practice, to get a feel for the basics and comprehend the inner workings of game development.
5403) This game is an huge "F**k you" to all the long-standing fans of this story. Do yourself a favor: do not buy this game, it's not worthy.
5404) 70% of the game is based on story ,and story is based on trash Making a sad missed up death story,,doesn't make it an masterpiece
5405) This is a piece of antichristian propaganda. It's main purpose is not to entertain, rather to brainwash multitudes who are willing to pay a huge amount because they are literally tricked by people who help push this agenda forward. This includes all the dishonest reviewers who give this game high ratings. So if you consider yourself a christian and are buying this, then you are basically supporting the enemies of the God you are supposed to love. Spread the message.
5406) everyone gonna ask why I gave this game low score. well....I ain't gonna lie, this game has a lot of good things, but compare to what company's have said, I don't thing the game is that masterpiece. Yes it's better than the first one but still it's not that great thing. but most importantly.......THE STORY. it seems like naughty dog forgot why we liked the first game. The game is lacking so much of the story, it's so cheap and disturbing. I can't believe it's from naughty dog. I know I'm not in the position to say it but, personally I see that naughty dog need to do some serous rehiring before they touch any title in the near future.,NOTE : I forgot to mention that they lied in some scenes in the trailers.
5407) The game does not match the hype or the reviews on the website. I wonder why such a phenomenon exists. I buy games based on reviews and the reviews are not honest. Just don't raise your expectations. The first game on PS3 was much better. Really fake reviews.,Part II just destroyed everything good about the first Last of Us.
5408) Kills the Joel for shock value. You can't even get the choice to get revenge against Abby. So naughty dog I can kill the other characters that did me wrong but oh no not the big bad because of a terrible flashback that takes an actual second. Where was that flashback for the other characters. This game sucks don't waste your money. Actual **** story. This shouldn't be Canon. This series ended after the first game.
5409) Naughty Dog ruined the legacy of Joel!,After finishing the game, we dont get revenge of abby and that makes us very angry!
5410) I’m waiting for the Naughty version, this fan version has an amazing graphics and gameplay, but the story telling is actually ****
5411) Metacritic will probably delete this by the time, considering it a "troll" score, but seriously, the game's story is BAD, it's "dark" and depressing just for the sake of it. They disrespected one of my favourite characters of last Gen, and literally spit on his corpse. Not only that, but the way that to his death was badly written, like everything conspired so that Abby  would be attacked by clickers and Saved by Joel, and she had no idea that it was him who killed her father, and just like that, Joel and his brother end  up on the camp of Abby's clan and trust them (even though they have years of experience and know that there bandits and merciless people out there) and are like hi my name is Joel Miller... That's just ridiculous, cartoon level of writing.,Now the ending, my god the ending, Joel dies like 2hours in, so you spend all the journey with Ellie, killing everyone on your way to get to Abby and take revenge, and guess what, REVENGE BAD, she fights her, drwons her, then get a flash back of Joel playing guitar, and then let her go? Like what? What?! You're telling me that the guy who sacrificed the world for you, died because of this decision, and you killed everyone to get to the killer and avenge him, then decide nah, not worth it...,I'm seriously speechless, if you've noticed I haven't talked about anything LGBT or Agenda pushing **** I have no problem with them, my problem with the game goes beyond that, I love old Bioware games, and they already had gay characters, so nothing new.,And talking about nothing new, well, the gameplay hasn't evolved that much, jump button, sprint jump, dodge? I mean it's the same TLOU1 experience expanded in some open areas. I would rather recommend you buy Days Gone you can get it for cheap, has good gameplay and sandbox, and is also a zombie apocalypse game.
5412) I am not happy with this game at all. The gameplay hasn't evolved at all and now feels outdated and too simplistic for a game released in 2020. Basically you move from box to box evading the same enemies for 24h.The combat is very boring, enemies do not have any AI development. Killing dogs is not fun at all and something i didn't appreciate when i was forced to do it, as some instances you don't get a choice and you follow an script.,The story is terrible. Batwoman level of terrible. It made me sick so much cringe. It keeps lecturing the player about situations the game itself created with no interaction from the player.,Full of plot holes and too much unnecessary filling, this game could have been 10h shorter.,If you brought this do yourself a favor and return it. Buy it when it's 10$ or less, it does not deserves anything more than that.
5413) This game is a beautiful disgrace. Looks great, shooting is solid, story is **** **** naughty dawg, Joel dies at the beginning of the game (first few hours) and it is a sad miserable game.
5414) Spoiler Alert! Worst story in the history of video games. How can you take a masterpiece like the Last of Us and just destroy it while insulting your fans? Great job!
5415) Poorly written full of plot wholes and not to mention it pushes a certain message, no thanks I'll be getting my money back they lied during advertisement of this game
5416) How did they go from one of the most iconic games and game of the year to this trash ass story. Like ok u kill Joel but u don't do that this early in the game and he shouldn't go out the way he did as the main character and who also made this game so great,and then ellie kills all these people just to fight abby and then spare her???
5417) The original last of us game was met with critical appraise from both fans and critics alike and landed the game of the year spot for most outlets, most believed a sequel was not necessary, i was one of these people but u was still excited. Then the entire game leaked online, i remained optimistic and waited for release, this game has the most pathetic revenge story and it’s unlikeable characters (especially those i loved in the first game) make it a **** show. But all of this pales in comparison to the last half if the game and its ending. Naughty went out of there way to push a political agenda in the player in the most lazy way possiblez
5418) We dont like to see SJW agenda pushed in our face! Everyone can be a hero, but its not heroism to be of specific sexual orientation or gender!
5419) Just passed to the second half of the game. Leaving aside politics, ideologies, and any type of social thinking, this game is a half cooked improvement of the mechanics you found in the first one, contrary to the technical jump from Uncharted 3 to 4, the set pieces and action choreography obviously feels way more "real" but empty, the jump mechanic wasn't necessary at all, it's implementation it's absurd. The graphics are amazing, top notch, but overshadowed by what we already saw in vibrancy, fluency and sharpness over God of War, Horizon Zero Dawn and even Uncharted. Ok it's a given that the scenarios can't be as magical as those, nonetheless, aside from certain scenarios and layouts, everything its just meh. Those are my main complain with the technical aspects of the game, starting from a 10, these points took away 4 points of this score. Now looking at the story and acting, there's enough said around here. The performances of every single character are incredible, aside from the nuances of their personas, it was a damn impressing interpretation. Moving on into the story, well, it feels like a power trip from you know who. He even self references himself in a uncomfortable sex scene, and in a collectible item, that's just disgusting to me. I'm not even gonna mention the story that they supervised... It's just bleak, and straight up violence porn. I'm so sorry. Hold your money for another game. And start analyzing who the reviewers are, how biased is the gaming media, and what they want to force upon us, the customers. It let me speechless that even Polygon was critical of the agenda and despiction of violence in favor of "the plot". With those little comments, now I upheld in better opinion Polygon vs IGN. And if you love videogames as I do, that's really saying something. Please, use your money wisely, now more than ever. It may be better save the cash for the upcoming months, it's gonna be a really hard time to be spending on videogames, specially when they are as poor implemented as this one.
5420) Scince I played Last of us for the first time, I enjoyed the game and storyline, I liked the chatracters in the game and every single thing in that game.,What happened in this game is to destroy all the meaning of last of us characters that we knew in the first part of the original game. All superstars are dead, which makes me upset. The game is focusing on sex,  blood, violance, hate, and unaccepted behaviors, which must not be included in a video game. In addition, there are so many glitches wich make the game worse. Last, my ps4 started overheating because of the fans and it blew up my console. This game must achieve the *** of the year.
5421) The main content of the game - the plot and values that he carries in himself. In this game, an empty, dry and boring plot. Not worth the absolute attention. The game can be praised only for a beautiful picture. Separately, it is worth noting the terrible production. The game discourages the desire to play immediately after the first plot twists. Bottom line: Good picture, with a disgusting plot and moral values. Otherwise - a beautiful trinket.
5422) It’s like the season 8 of Game of Thrones, but for video games.Really disappointing.
5423) Ruined my beloved game that I waited for , for 7 years! , the story is trash, full of forced in characters and plot armor, nothing makes sense, and I just feel betrayed
5424) How did they manage to pull this thing off dude lol, how do you kill your protagonist this way, in this context, just...how
5425) Waiting 7 years for this piece of garbage narrative, i deny the face that tlou1 ever had a sequel.
5426) It can be a good game,  it can have a good gamplay,  it can have a good story,  but what you did with the last of us 2 death of joel and how they kill him,  is hitting your customers in the face.
5427) Lmao this game is so bad. After killing hundreds of people ellie is suddenly like killing bad revenge bad. This game was made just so that druckmann self insert character can have sex with abby.
5428) Literally created an account just to say how **** this game is. Dont waste your money
5429) It's so dissapointing, it makes me want to rate this game. What a waste of what should be a great franchise.
5430) An actual dumpsterfire. I don't even care about the politics, this game just sucks.
5431) The developers completely DESTROYED the story and RUINED all the beloved main characters and all for what? a WOKE agenda? complete BS!
5432) Imagine your getting ready to go on a road trip with your dad and outta nowhere ronda rousey shows up and tortures and kills your dad and jumps in the front seat and says "lets go on a adventure kid" that's pretty much the story of this game. gameplay is nothing to write home about, this is game is a resounding failure and makes me uneasy about the future of gaming.
5433) Very bad sjw game. Do not recommend this sht anyone. Better play diablo 2 or smth.
5434) Halfway through the game you get forced to play a character that has done something horrible to understand their motivations. But the thing they've done is so horrific that you won't care what their motivations are. The only pleasure you derive from that half of the game is seeing every one of her death animations.,,At least the gameplay's good.
5435) By forcing you to play the object of anger.,It is just arrogance to try to teach users.,Garbage part 1.
5436) I wanted to like this game. I saw the critics reviews and thought it would be amazing. It is terrible. The story was designed to displease you, and video games are supposed to be pleasing. It is packed with PC SJW content that feels shoved in your face rather than placed in a meaningful way. The game is repetitive and tedious. I never thought I’d be giving this low of a score but I think it’s atrocious.
5437) We wanted a game not a political statement, stop this propaganda we don't want it
5438) More like watching a series most of the time and the game play is not very different compared to the first game which came out 7 years ago. I'm disappointed as I really enjoyed the first game and I feel like I have been deceived with all the critic reviews. Very disappointing
5439) Coming from a legitimate review standpoint this game has been atrocious to play. The story can barely progress itself and what were once fluid multifaceted characters are now cheesy 2d machines. I have never before been unable to complete a game, but now is one of those times. I made maybe 5 hours into this game before I decided I needed to take a long break from it indefinitely. One of the major issues I had with this game was the gratuitous sex scenes throughout, and what felt like Naughty Dog putting diversity into a game for sales. This game feels genuinely exploitative towards the LGBT community because it uses multiple LGBT characters as sales points and fan service. If they were to introduce an LGBT character who mas more than a flat character who's entire personality was not based on their sexuality/gender that would be great. I think diversity in games is something that needs to happen, but in this game the characters that are meant to be inclusive are more representative of a cardboard cutout than an actual inclusive character. I would highly dissuade anyone from buying this game if they were a fan of the original last of us. The plot will wear you down and feel nothing like the original game. I would not recommend this game.
5440) Worst game ever made bad story and abby
5441) Pretty disappointing after the first game. It sucks that Naughty dog would give their political views priority over actually making a half decent game.
5442) Did you see the stark contrast of the scores here? How the Critic Reviews are able to give this game a very shining score of 9 or 10?,,Now, look at the User Reviews, filled with complaints about how the story has been butchered just to fulfil some political movement agenda and killing a beloved character for nothing.,,See the difference?,No? Let me get you in on this.,,The User Reviews contained people who ACTUALLY PLAYED THE FIRST GAME. It is filled with people who loved (or still loves) the dynamics and relationships between Joel and Ellie, and those who felt something when they realized that a game's story, can touch people's hearts.,,TLOU2 butchered everything that TLOU has done for us. No gameplay changes, the game world is empty (although very beautiful, kudos to the designers), enemy AI is probably the dumbest you've ever seen, all in all, the game looks very dated.,,Combine all of that with the fact that the story is a nonexistent mess about murder and violence, and at the end of the game, the developers took a step further and tell you 'no no no, revenge is bad, you cannot kill.',,Now, look at that 85-90-95-100 score from the Critic Reviews. Where the **** does it come from? How the **** are they even grading this game? Do they actually finish the game? This is overhyping up something for the sake of nothing but money.,,This type of corporate stupidity has to be stopped. If I'm able to refund my purchase, I would do so gladly.,,Worst $60 I ever spend.,,At least Game of Thrones season 8 killed Daenerys.
5443) No commitment to the characters we fell in love with in the first game. Forced SJW agenda. A very poorly written, generic revenge story with massive plot holes. An absolute middle finger to the fan base and one of the biggest storytelling meltdowns we have ever witnessed.
5444) Factors of PC ruined this game. They can't make good games themselves. They always hitch a ride many good games.
5445) Remember when we played games for fun and companies wanted to make money and get respect? Well that's gone for Naughty dog. Neil druckman you are done. ooh and apparently it's now impossible tot give a zero on metacritic. Uploads dont work
5446) The Last of Us 2 is the worst game I've ever had the pleasure of not playing. It fails to live up to it's predecessor in every single way, especially the story. This game is not just disrespectful to the franchise and the fans, but also to the gaming industry as a whole. We're better than this. Quite possibly the worst AAA game of all time.
5447) This was done with spite, and great story ruined by a vendetta. You do not punish art and hard work with vile politics and pandering.
5448) Huge waste of everyone's time. Like did they even try and make a game someone could enjoy?
5449) The game is more fake than it is. 0815 Revenge story, the gay characters only exist because it is hip and current. The worst part is the boring gameplay. A would-be film. I'm a gamer and I always prefer cool gameplay to story. I also don't buy the characters. Everything very, very artificial.
5450) All for nothing wtf is the ending supose to be a f u in our face for buying this poorly written game
5451) Joel! They kill Joel!!!!!! Smacks of a disgusting scenario "world of the wild West" it's too cruel. I don't want to play after that.
5452) If this game wasn't a narrative one , I would say this game is great but story is just hot garbage and agenda cliche , and when I reached the ending where Ellie spares abbey is just terrible , you did a terrible job Neil druckman well done .
5453) The political agenda in games is disgusting.,,Graphics: 9/10,Gameplay: 6/10,Locations: 8/10,Story: 0/10,Characters: 0/10,SJW: 0/10,Total: 0/10
5454) A joke here: IGN 10/10.,For now, at least, the 7/10 from IGN Japan looks even a little more fair.
5455) Stupidest and Ugliest Story EVER,They destroythe characters For their AGENDA
5456) A big middle finger to all those who loved the first game. What were they thinking?
5457) This only proves how corrupt almost all game reviewers are. What is it guys afraid of missing out on an early PS5? The story in this game is pure trash and has a disgusting PC vibe, the worst I've seen in video game/movie history. I play games to escape real life like PC BS and they put it in one of my favorite game franchizes. What were they thinking? This took 7 years? Unbelievable, Just unbelievable.
5458) bullshxt story and the creater think everyone like it.The scriptwriter of tlou part2 ruined everything in this game
5459) Pro:,1. Easy to Platinum,2. Good Acting Skills,3. Visually Stunning Graphics,4. Good Accessibility Designs, in fact, those extra options make this game much more interesting (especially text-to-speech and radar scan),Con:,Neil Druckmann happened
5460) God forgive us for the fact that these developers made **** called "The last of us 2".,,I can’t believe that Naughty Dog ruined one of the best game in the world. Literally destroyed and distributed all this **** to their fans, people who trusted them. People just wanted a decent sequel that could be better than the first part of the game.,,You can continue to pay all sorts of corrupt game journalists and critics so that they put their 12 out of 10 points. But real users will give a real deserving rating. I personally put 0 out of 10.,,And once again forgive us the Almighty God!
5461) If you bought it looking for a good story you better refund it immediately I hope neil gets fired
5462) Amazing Gameplay, Graphics and animation no doubt, but JESUS there's no doubt sony paid for all those reviews I mean the STORY, like seriously WTF. It's not that it's shocking its just that its plain bad. It's laughable and ignores all the character development of the past games. The Joel scene was so badly written that I was literally laughing during that scene.
5463) Seriously? That's what we've been waiting for 7 years? You can't just write an interesting story logically woven just what is appropriate in it, and not what is on hype now for hype???
5464) I can't even put in to words what I'm feeling. Just imagine wait SEVEN years to feel TOTALLY disappointed
5465) Just terrible. Worked their staff to the state of exhaustion having many quit to bring us this woke destruction of everything that was good about the first game.,Do not buy!
5466) Game play is same as the first chapter nothing new to make you shocked,The story is that kind of story s we ve seen in movies or etc,I expected twice emotional story than first chapter,They just make elle mature thats what you get from this game,Dont expect a AAA game
5467) An absolute piece of garbage in the history of entire gaming industry!!! Totally disappointed...
5468) Painfully disappointing and huge drop for the game we’ve been waiting for along time by ruining the story and destroying best characters.
5469) I even don't know how they thinking when they did THE WORST storyline ever ! Don't pay it .
5470) Aside from the resounding (justified) hate for this dumpster fire, the positive critic scores just goes to show you that bribes are well and alive in gaming journalism, more so than ever before.
5471) This game had a disgusting scene that made me@tsp1n look tame .Thanks naughty dog for wishing i was blind.
5472) Pros:,-Diversity and inclusion,-Transtastic gameplay,-Neil (Cuck)Druckmann's wet fantasy,,Cons:,-This game being released,,Seriously just don't bother with this abomination. I played for two hours total and I want to swallow a bullet in minecraft. Please go and do something worthwhile with your time and money.
5473) Thank you Neil for killing the franchise... This game was worst then game of thrones season 8...
5474) We seriously waited 7 years for this SJW political pandering game. The writing was freaking awful and left you with plot holes as soon as the game started. I don't know what they were trying to achieve here other than to upset everyone known to man. Not even 2 hours in and Joel gets killed in the absolutely stupidest way possible (yes I've seen the leaks so I knew it was coming)! But even still the way they did it was terrible!!! Ellie is set on revenge the whole game and at the very end of the game SHE DOESN'T KILL ABBEY?!?! What was the point of making this game or even writing this game?! What a waste of 7 years of waiting. Neil **** should never write again especially for this series. It has no place for him.
5475) I ignored the leaks, i paid the full price, the full preorder price too.,I just gave the game to my brother, have him suffer a little too.
5476) The gameplay was fine and the graphics and atmosphere are incredible, but this the biggest **** up in gaming ever. Holy **** the last of us 1 bad the greatest storytelling in all of gaming, but this, after playing the game for 8 hours is one of the worse if not the worst storytelling ever. I'd rather play Mario for the story than this piece of **** game
5477) You don't have to be homophobic to not like the story. Unfortunately, Naughty Dog screwed up the storytelling.
5478) The last of Us Part 2 doesn’t care about the characters it established in the first game and barely cares about the characters they introduce in this game. An integral plot point occurs because characters forget who they were in the last game and how they’ve survived for 20+ years. Antagonist characters have weak motivations and don’t make for compelling villains/characters. Joel and Ellie made the first game and there’s barely an hour or 2 of them together in a potentially 30+ hour game. You can obviously tell these are the best scenes in this game. False advertising and no payoff at the end... this game ruins the legacy the last game left.
5479) veyy bad no words dont get this game why did i spend so much on this could've got something else
5480) This is a game that forces politics down your throat disguised in fancy graphics.
5481) Worst game ever. Do not play it if you have respect for yourself,that’s how bad it is,. Dont buy it
5482) I just cant waste time on explaining why this game is bu11sh1t. This is the end of a franchise,,RIP Joel.
5483) The signature writing that made The Last of Us well known is no where to be found. Choosing to deconstruct the story of the original for the sake of shock value, you can tell what Naughty Dog was aiming for, but missed by a mile. As the characters from the first game make one uncharacteristic decision after another (that usually ends in their demise) the game rushes in a slew of new characters that the story gives the player no motivation to care about. The pacing feels so bad that it often comes off as comedically derivative. Even the final scene of the game, which is intended to be dramatic, plays off as an episode ending puncline from Curb Your Enthusiasm (I half expected the theme to play as it cut to credits.) The gameplay is slightly improved from the first, but if you didn't love it in the original, you're going to spend the last 10 hours of the game begging for it to end.,The only positive things I really have to say is that the environments and level designs are very pretty and flow well overall.
5484) We bought this game not for game-play or wep. mechanics we play this game for story and this is the worst one....  MassEffect3 was much better.
5485) Well we all know that Sony paid well to the reviewers (tlou2 has 95 on metacritic yhh ofc lmao),,Also we all know what leaks are and there are also new ones, this game is not only politically correct but the game mechanics are the same as in many other games (about zombies) only graphics save this game... The plot is 5/10, it has twists and turns, but we all know how idiotic ending this game has and the developers have not changed it, according to critics who were not afraid to rate this game lower (7.0 / 10) said that many threads are forced to just evoke feelings on the player (threads about LGBT and love that forgives everything, even killing someone close yhh, fellings, more fellings, more more fellings....in a zombie survival...). Another strange thing is that the creators decided to significantly limit the number of black opponents, rly? the creators assumed that during such an apocalypse there are definitely more white people than black people?! pathological... and this is exactly political correctness....When it comes to the AI ​​(people) often is wrong/bugs, when it comes to zombies it is just like in the first part, nothing new, only a new interface, if the opponent notices us constantly we receive notifications that we have been detected and we are threatened, it is really annoying and you can't turn it off. This game is saved only by graphics! STOP MAKING GAME ABOUT LGBT AND POLITICAL CORRECT!!
5486) Graphics and animations are nice, best looking game in PS4. Other aspects, totally failed.  I am so disappointed
5487) Really bad game. False advertising, bad plot and transsexual propaganda. The story is bad, good people get killed, the end is **** and it's not worth 60€. Not even 2€. Don't buy that ****
5488) **** PC, **** Story, **** Ending, This is a betrayal of previous series and fans.
5489) This Game is Trash,  Bad Story, 0% Fun and forced LGBT Inclusion. Never Play this Trash game
5490) My love for the the first part feels delayed out and turned into money and Sony is just lounging
5491) stupid peace of **** from Naughty Dog (another peace of sheet). neaL drackmaN suck my dick
5492) Don't care if Ellie is a lesbian. Don't care that a transgender person is in the game. Do care that they **** with Joel. You don't **** with Joel! Not like that! Stupid moves get stupid results. The recipe for success was already in Naughty Dogs hands with part 1. We just wanted a good story with the characters we love. Not this **** show of a plot. Game should have been on the $19.99 Walmart shelf from the start.
5493) Horrible story. New characters are useless, boring game play with ok mechanics but not improved by much. Improved graphics but that can’t save this. Plenty of other games with better graphics and story will beat this game with a golf club in the game of the year award to come. Id rate it a 1 over a zero because TLOU 1 was so good That I was still holding this with sentiment. Thanks for wasting years of excitement during this crappy year ND. Trash game
5494) Just naughty **** things, this game should never exist,Wasted potential, save your money
5495) I am an Asian, who is offended by your ND's untimely jokes.,Poor old Joel.
5496) Wth is this ending?? Gameplay is good but this is tlou, a sorry driven game and you ruined it. Gg naughty dog you ruined the franchise.
5497) Boring gameplay  ; and the worst story ever written .... all characers are stupid and i dont care if they die or not , What a shame , how can you ruin such a great Game . The worst is abby , she just looks like an alien but in a very negativ way her pyramid **** are disgusting . What a shame naughty dog is dead for me ....
5498) This game is so boring, I beg of you don't waste your money on this trash game they had like 7 years to make this game and they choked. This is one of the worst games on the ps4 right now.
5499) Thanks for the brainwashing instead of the game, Thanks SJW propaganda and Naughty Dog for ruining my favourite game..., don't play it, disaster, trash, refunded.
5500) The graphics in this game are excellent. But the story is quite disappointing.
5501) This is one of the best golf games I have ever played, goty,,jk, this game is disappointing, I believed in Naughty Dog, The first game was one of my favourites, the second is one of the most hated games of mine
5502) Gameplay is awesome but story is an absolute garbage The most thing I hate about the story is that Ellie killed all those people and then when she had the chance to kill abby she refuse to kill him
5503) Possibly the most disappointing sequel ever, very little engaging gameplay and a terrible story makes it a wonder anyone thought this was even a game
5504) the story 0/10,the characters 1/10,bad directed 2/10,in this chapter jol is nothing,naughty dog this chapter is sick,Graphics 8/10,Locations 7/10,Story 1/10,Characters 2/10,Gameplay 5/10,SJW scum 0/10
5505) If you like the first game, you will hate this game. If you like good storytelling, you will hate this game. If you want a game with great and interesting characters, you will hate this game. Do NOT buy this game or support it. If like pandering nonsense, you will love this game. Play the first game instead and just pretend it ends there. Naughty Dog is a good games company, but they really dropped the ball on this one
5506) Congratulations Neil, you did it,You destroyed every single character that remained from the first game
5507) This game should not exist, destroyed everything everyone loved about the first one
5508) Self-insertion in a game is something in bad taste that gives nothing but cringe, ND exploited workers during development, the hypocrisy and bad practices of Sony are another bad point. So much wanting to innovate at all, is another empty product with purchased reviews
5509) YoU cAN MoVE iN ThIs gaMe tHatS aWeSoME 10/10 MAsteRPieCiECE IGN. hope you got the joke
5510) Playing this game feels like the agony of Joel Ellie Tommy combined. We are literally being f***ed up by Abby and Naughty Dog. This game doesn’t deserve the title “The Last of Us”. Utterly trash
5511) Worst opening,Worst second protagonist,Worst ending,,.......,Very disappointing story, making this game worthless.
5512) I remember the time I played Last of us 1. I could understand Joel's decision, and it was so sad. The  Last of us 2 does not understand the decisions of all characters.
5513) Bul**** agenda  out of 10 ... Incoherent , badly written, boring and forgettable, But WAIT it also has flaws... IGNoring all of the "professional" "10/10" reviews... In a post apocalyptic world where the main concern is sexuality like there arent other problems to think about, the game falls flat afer the first 3 hours following the "shock value scene" whitch is set as the motivation for the entire game to exist... After this point the more you go on the more you understand how everyone acts out of character just to push forward a story that will make you feel numb, and disconnected , throwing in all the diversity you can get ... I grew to dislike every caracter in this game... I wonder who are the target players for this game, as i doubt that most people will connec with an unlikeable edgy lesbian ...but to each their own... The game is a solid 6 only because of the presentation ... The 0 is just to balamce out the bs 10... This game is just dumb and has no real reason to exist aside agenda and sweet sweet $$$
5514) The only thing it has going for it is the looks, the story and the dialogue is cringey and straight up nonsensical. More of a spin off than a part 2.
5515) the plot is complete disgrace comparing to the first one. A video game shouldn't be influenced by any political movement, it should be art directed at every player.
5516) 10 points for the visual component and minus 10 for SJW propaganda along with a bad plot and outdated gameplay
5517) The The Last of Us part 2 is a game that you wish it never existed. This game badly fail to repeat the the the brilliant story of its successor. However, the fluent and smooth animation and gameplay make up just a little bit for its failing story. The ending is a pure nonsense. And most of the game is the story of sexulized characters.
5518) Unplayable game it’s so boring and over hyped , unfortunately I’ve wasted my money
5519) Naughty Dog just ruined the franchise! They killed off Joel and ruined Ellie coupled with a terrible story. And for the most of the game, you play as Joel's killer. WTF Neil cuckmen and Sony!
5520) 1. Identify a respected institution.,,2. kill it.,,3. gut it.,,4. wear its carcass as a skin suit, while demanding respect
5521) I never had an account on Meta, created specially for this.,The story is ruined,they decided to kill Joel, a thing they should have never done and in what way... it's like these brain-farts never pplayed LoU. Hey there's this guy that doesnt trust anyone, lets just have him help a stranger and then tell everyone their names, where they live etc cause why, after a few years sure every survivor is a good fella now. This was utter **** They killed him a bad way to create a basic revenge plot... cheap.,Also, full of SJW **** agendas. I pay to play not to take part in  the real worlds problems for a moment. Black people and white people and many people will still be shot or discriminated for their sexuality or whatnot in real life even if you guys ruin a game.,A good story ruined by **** just because they want to shove their ideas down your throat, story wise and sjw wise included.
5522) I thought that this game will spoil the politics, but such a plot will not save anything. I will pretend that TLOS 2 does not exist.
5523) The graphics are out of the world along with a great gameplay and cool features but that's about it. The story has unnecessary plot twists and plot holes and makes me angry and sad most of the times. No matter how good the game looks, feels or plays a bad story will never bring it up. The companies give a perfect 10 without any thoughts and hence I will give it a perfect 0. Also don't DMCA strike the reviewers, not cool.
5524) Abomination of a "story" game. Crazy how this is supposed to be a story game but the weakest link of the game is the story. Do not buy. Save 60 dollars.
5525) We all know that the main selling point of this game is the story. Well....they **** it up.,First :,Those who are saying we are mad because of the lesbian and trans thing going on. No, we aren't. All of us knew ellie was a homosexual and no one was mad about it in the first game.,Second :,Nothing good came out of killing Joel. How the **** could they use him for some cheap shock value. I mean at least they could make up for it right? Nope. Just ****ing killed one of the characters that drives the game and you ****ing expect us to sympathize with a stranger character we don't even know. No amount of understanding will help us empathize with someone who killed one of the crucial character of the game. And then you spit us on the face and make us play that ****ing character.,Third : It's a ****ing revenge story with no revenge. Nothing good comes out of it. Everyone dies. She spares her life. It's a ****ing disaster. And Joel's last word to Ellie is 'Yep.' Like wtf. Really?!? ****ing lazy writing.,We are not here to have a woke contest. Naughty Dog spits on our face and disgracefully kills off what could have been one of the best games of all time. All the character development for nothing but to make a point that does no good. Ellie kills hundreds but spares the killer of joel...yeah right. We had to wait 7 years for this **** You guys suck.,Please Naughty Dog. I still have faith in you as a gaming company. Please make it up for this disaster with your next release.,Sincerely,,A disappointed fan.
5526) Wait until they start trying to censor the users because they don't agree with the critics. It's bad. No, it has nothing to do with certain "scenes" (keep your whining to yourself). It has to do with the story and an effort to be made to actually censor those that don't agree with what they're apparently supposed to think. It's simply bad. Deal with it.
5527) I swear anyone who voted 5 and above is a paid actor. What a disrespectful way to treat this franchise. Utter disgrace. Only thing that saved the game was environments and animation.
5528) It really was not fun at all.,Just she pandering.,I should have saved my money,Trump 2020
5529) How tf they gon let Joel die and not let his killer go...Ellie kills innocent people to get to Abby but can’t finish the job :/
5530) Yes, everything happens for a reason. But I don't like the feeling to be forced to understand the other person's reason. Ellie should live for herself. The ending was too disappointing for me.
5531) No Joel, no score, it's a story based game, when you fk the storyline, everything else doesn't matter.
5532) Why force me to play as the one I want to ripped into pieces??!!???WHY??????
5533) The only good thing in this game are the graphics,but graphics isn’t everything,the plot sucks and everything else too.,Do not buy this game,it’s like throwing your money directly into the trash
5534) What a disappointment. Sorry to see beloved characters disrespected. Outstanding sound and visuals, however the story just doesn’t sit well with me. I would recommend saving your $60.
5535) Completely undid the first game that was a massive success. Forced character narratives, very slow slog of a game. Characters act against their normal method of operation for stupid reasons to drive plot.,Painful cringe experience.,There's some stuff in here that's never been in a video game before. It may not be able to be stomached by most.
5536) Too bad they buried a very good game.  Unfortunately it is impossible to make a refund as in steam, I am very disappointed, not sure if I can go through the game to the end.  I am a very strong fan of the first part and probably went through it more than 12 times, but the second part is a shame.  Boring is not an interesting story, but SJW activists will be happy with 10/10.
5537) It's almost like the development studio scrapped the idea of making a solid story and then focused on the level design. That's the only good point. It looks nice. If I wanted a game that just looked nice I'd play an R-18 eroge
5538) Cutscene simulator, but this time even the story cant carry this 60$ interactive film
5539) Absolutely horrible writing and one of the main playable characters is one of the most awful characters I have ever played as in a video game, they have killed this great series. Screw Abby, stupid ogre character.
5540) The Most disgusting game Story ever made.It's like a joke.Save your money guys and watch gameplay videos on youtube.
5541) This game complete ruins in my opinion of every character left alive in the game, the only enjoyable characters get kill both by Abby and Ellie, and in the very end Ellie give up everything for revenge and then doesn’t finish the job, and in the very end is is left broken and alone consumed by vengeance, lost every from her lover and child, the one thing she has left to remember Joel fondly, then when she realized she I broken and can no longer play the guitar she just leaves it to rot instead of passing it on to someone she just leaves it, the story complete ruins the gameplay and the world which have some improvements over the first game and then something that just pad out the game to make it longer than needed somethings in the game are extremely beautiful, and the only good moments that feel like it is an actual sequel to The Last of Us part 1 are the flash back the Ellie and Joel, this game completely destroys the likability of any character left alive.
5542) Dr. (c)Uckmann,Brains: 100,Brawl: 60,Friends: 0, you have no friends in life you pathetic vermin.
5543) This game turned me into a gay serial killer. I now legit have a basement full of naked dudes. Dead naked dudes. Thanks Soyny and Neil ****
5544) Ruined the series, repetitive, forced agenda, and a lot of "golfing" makes you wonder how much naughty dog payed reviewer sites.
5545) The story , the thing last of us was known for is full of LGBT content that plagues the narrative , and the ending will most likely make want to never play any naughty dogs game ever !
5546) Absolutely disgusting game, disgusting people in charge, and disgusting companies giving this game a perfect score. Neil Druckman is the most ego centrical game director ive ever seen and i will never support one of his products
5547) Nice graphics & scenery & very polished but that's about it. Generic survival horror gameplay with barely any thought that was put into puzzles, story is utter garbage & basically a middle finger to the fans of the first game, all that to push their woke narrative, Naughty Dog used to be one of the best devs what happened? What changed?...
5548) Do you feel bold now? Brave, perhaps? Doing what must be done? Justice? Do you feel you are changing the world? Because I don’t feel any of that.,I feel nothing, emptiness.,This is not art.,You just made a statement.,Now listen what the world has to say about it.
5549) worst possible story ever. gonna pretend it doesnt even exist. like game of thrones season 7 and 8. i know maybe i shouldnt be that pissed about the game, but in my childhood Joel was like an imaginary father figure that sort of filled the hole that my own father caused in my life. so yeah. it was important for me...what they did to him and ellie is a disgrace. after finishing this game i was left with nothing but sadness and anger.
5550) Vile and disgusting. Nothing more than agenda pushing smut. I wonder why your unable to shoot a certain religious symbol? but the game allows you to shoot all others hmmmmmmmm....
5551) Gameplay and visuals are great as well as the voice acting but the story is just so horrendous and an absolute insult to the first game that I can't dare to bring myself to playing it.
5552) I found one of the games that has the most beautiful ambience of the last games, but the storyline sucks! I
5553) The story is not good, actually it sucks because the trailers lied to us. No one should play this.
5554) The Story is terrible, and the characters are worse. Graphics are beautiful but that's where the good part ends.
5555) After seeing the leaks and then coming to find out that they are even worse is incredibly saddening. I had such high hopes and to have the story thrown out the window and burned in front of my eyes hurts my soul. Gamers just wanna play games that make sense in a series. This was not a sequel to the Last of Us. The agenda pushing needs to stop, make a game with a solid story that makes sense. How does Abby get everything she wants when she’s basically the villain. I mean the list will go on but Joel did not deserve that ending. I mean sweet god naughty dog one of my favorite developers from the Uncharted series. How far they have fallen.
5556) I feel like naughty dog is mad at us for liking the first game. The franchise was what it was (before this game) because of the narrative of the first game. Doesn't matter how much you dress up the package with nice graphics and decent gameplay, the core of the experience is the story in the Last Of Us franchise. Naughty dog fails to deliver a story halfway decent compared to the first game. Even if for some reason naughty dog just had to kill Joel off, this has to be worst possible way to do so. What makes this game utterly garbage for me is the fact that you are forced to play as this new character at times which you despise because you liked the first game. The game could have been a lot better (still not the perfect) if you were allowed to play as Ellie alone to hunt down Abby and not have her run over all the characters like a jacked up deranged maniac. I would be happy if this game was erased from the canon and chalked up as a mistake. Naughty Dog forgot the fact that at the end of day, people play games for fun. There are plenty of ways to tell a dark story while ensuring the experience is fun to engage with. This game is not fun, you were correct in saying so Niel druckman.  It has no business being an entertainment project.
5557) You BLEW IT Naughty Dog. Unless you have the 3rd installment of this ready to go, and we get revenge for everything that happened in this game... I WILL NEVER BUY ANYTHING FROM YOU AGAIN.
5558) a waste of money. Just propaganda and an empty story. You dishonored a great title.
5559) Worst game ever !!!,They traded their great story of part 1 to "advertise" and "support" some stupid thoughts to make them people feel "less stupid", beside almost same gameplay and trash story, trash conversations ingame,I don't recommend buying at all..
5560) Bad conflict resolution, no emotion generated, impossible to empathize with any new characters, horrible ending and final boss fighting, it seems that the final message of the game is about holding grudges and planning revenge.,Good graphics, good gameplay, but it doesn't contribute much compared to the first one, however, the bad story of this game really left me behind for recommending this game to nobody especially for the first part lovers.
5561) I’m confused. I’m confused by the positivity with which Last of us 2 has been received. Why do people like this game so much? Has the world gone mad? Is it nostalgia from the original’s cult following? If that’s the case, then I must have been out of the room when the TLoU2 Kool-Aid was being passed around because I honestly cannot conceive of the source of its popularity. In truth, there was very little that I enjoyed about TLoU2 and very much that I didn’t.
5562) What a complete and total waste of talent. The gameplay is stale and bland. The story is a disgrace, with legacy characters acting like complete idiots and sociopaths. Druckmann, you really didn't need to draw the paper-thin premise of "violence begets violence" out over 30 hours and fill it with torture and gore porn in order to make your point.,,The original "The Last of Us" was beloved because it delivered on many different fronts. It was a great character piece. It was atmospheric. Even if it was needlessly violent most of the time, at least it was a straightforward point-a-to-point-b story, with lush natural vistas and a real sense of loneliness and atmosphere. "TLOU" had themes and depth. It was about mankind discovering his humanity in the ruins of civilization. It was about bonding, communication, relationships, and hope.,,"TLOU Part II" is about little more than peddling brutal, transgressive content, and on top of that, advertising it in a misleading manner to the millions of fans of the original groundbreaking title. Neil Druckmann, you in particular should be sued for false advertising for the way you edited Joel into the trailers. The way you instructed gaming outlets to only review the first third or so of the game is an utter disgrace that only shows the incestuous nepotism inherent in this godforsaken industry. And to top it off, hitting content creators on the Internet with DMCA notices really put the cherry on top of your crap sundae.,,I feel disgusted by the way this all was handled. If Amy Hennig were in charge of this, this never would have happened, because she understands something called nuanced storytelling. Look it up, Neil Druckmann. You should never be given creative control of any video game ever again, and I hope that other AAA devs will think twice before hiring someone as tone-deaf to their audiences as Anita Sarkeesian to consult. I pity the developers who worked so hard on this game's beautiful graphics, animation, soundscapes, etc., all in service of the worst story I've seen in a modern video game. Shame on you, Druckmann. Resign, for the good of gaming.
5563) Democratic garbage shoved down our throats don’t buy horrible characters horrible story I hope naughty dog realizes they killed their franchise
5564) Bad Game. The last of us is a game about a truly gripping storyline. The Last of us part II is not that
5565) The game plays more like a interactive movie than a video game with half of the time "playing" your really just sitting with the controller on the ground and the rest your just **** walking, that second part could be overlooked if the story wasn't **** ass and a complete disgrace to the first game.
5566) Absolutely horrible story, no changes in gameplay from outdated game ten years ago.
5567) What happened to ND? Did they take so many drugs that they are now completely out of touch? Nothing in this game is ground breaking, the story is a simple revenge plot with Neil druckmann who inserted himself into this game...its weird as hell. How did we go from the greatness of TLOU to this? As you can tell, the mainstream reviewers have some kind of agenda or they are getting paid to lie about this game. Don't listen to those fake gamers and listen to the average person who has.. SAVE YOUR MONEY!
5568) This game is bad. The story is the worst sony game i’ve ever played. Waste my money.
5569) liberal pandering ensured Last of Us would never become a trilogy. So disappointed in both Sony & Naughty Dog
5570) This game is completely bad. I want my refund! Never believe to critics!!!!
5571) It was bad, the first part better in 300%,And, Joel why? He was great guy!!!,I waited another game!
5572) A third grader could have come up with this plot. Expected so so so so so much more after such a long wait.
5573) Imagine to kill the protagonist just to give a motivation to Ellie and after that doing absolutely nothing with that motivation, that end was awful, the moral of the history is "You can do anything witouth consecuences because revenge is bad", jeez.
5574) I loved part 1, and this is just a piece of **** the same gameplay, horrible story, horrible new characters, and the worst thing is about Joel... Thanks Nill **** and ur fem friend
5575) What about the game?,**** Hua Piao Piao Bei Feng Xiao Xiao,I don’t wanna watch Animal Planet in,This materpiece!,10/10???,What a disgusting joke it is!
5576) dull gameplay, the game is very protracted, gnawing snot, characters that cause disgust rather than empathy.  And the LGBT theme, if it was just by chance, but in the game you are stuffed with this **** in all holes.  Do a good deed, do not buy this game.
5577) Story is poor, characters is poor. Very overrated game the first part is much better. Very sinful game with stupid ending waste of money............................................
5578) Same gamplay as the last of us 1, bad ending with no emotional scenes, bad punch fightings, camera from shoulder just like god of war،they totally forgot that its game!! Its like movie with no story just fighting and go to another city
5579) Good story, but terrible and bugged gameplay.I played on the ps slim with HDR activated and the graphics didn't impressed me.
5580) Do not buy this pile of trash.  Gameplay is aweful and the story worse.  Save your money.
5581) Forced game, plot and mechanics really seem to uncharted which in a post apocalyptic world you almost feed yourself but can high jump and rappel like a pro.,Cisgender that kills main character under hypocrisy and joel Is getting killed in the stupidest way possible despite the only character that kills him is the doctors daughter' from the end which you are forced to kill. 20 years killing people and  just a cisgender the only one in the whole 2 games kills him . 0 a fake copy form uncharted,  the evil within 2 and many more games +fakest cgi blood
5582) what a cringe story. gross characters.  **** game.  pass on this trash.   its so forced and Gross.  girls kissing and trans chicks. barf
5583) The gameplay is good and graphics is good but the story is horrible and it’s alright game but the first one is still better
5584) Worst ending ever, this game is not worth buying it.,TLOU2 doesn't exist, is just a bad dream
5585) Just a trash, it is so far from the last of us part one, useless conversations and it shows you that there are a probaganda behind it.
5586) first of all that was the worst ending ive ever seen after game of thrones season 8 the graphics and the  gameplay are great but the story its beyond garbage
5587) Disappointing. Disrespectful to legendary characters of last of us. No matter how good the gameplay is . Whoever is responsible for this story has an egoistic, unbalanced character that does not respect to rest of the team that have done an excellent job on gameplay. The director spoiled all the best things about the game.
5588) Kill off a main character 2 hours into the game just to play half the time as his killer. Go on a journey to kill her for the rest of the game and let her go at the end. Great plot.
5589) Absolutely abhorrent! 13 hours and I can't continue. I was hoping that some of the spoilers I had come across would be false but unfortunately, they're not. The graphics are beautiful and it probably deserves a 1 for that but I can't get over what ND have done to this special franchise and story. Completely disgraceful!
5590) Terrible story and had zero justice to the previous world building and characters. The previous game narrative was incredible this one boils down to revenge is bad. Can’t believe after all these years they turn Joel into a side character to be killed
5591) Stop ✋ Stop  pushing political agenda into video games. This is a game not a platform for B tier activism.
5592) Seven years for this? Why God? This game is a great peace of .... Give my money back.
5593) The last of us should've never had a sequel, they just ruined the reputation of the original game.
5594) We were given emotions by Joel, which made the previous work fun. But the game ruined the fun, and the story is not interesting. Neil, you ruined our feelings.
5595) Horrible game. The creators of this game has shown exactly how much they respect the first game. They took a massive character trait, Joel not trusting anyone, and just said “Ehhhhh. He’d trust these teenagers he just met a second ago with no second questions.” Also his death scene is literally just torture porn and shock value which was a disappointing send off for a main character. And naughty dog is full of hypocrites who will **** and moan about “realistic proportions in female body types” but then go and make their ‘main character’ the size of a linebacker with the body type to match. Physically impossible for a girl in a post apocalyptic world to build that much muscle mass, let alone find the time and nutrients to maintain it. I’m literally infuriated that I avoided the leaks, I would’ve had better entertainment if I had just burned the money in front of myself. Good graphics tho, really saw the blood splatter on the golf club
5596) I dont like it story didn’t exist the part is really missing i just wanna say that i love my mama
5597) This game is an absolute waste of time and money. Terrible story and terrible new uninteresting characters. Whoever created this story should be fired for ruining an excellent franchisey
5598) Very bad game. Stupid sjw. I play game to escape from reality. I don’t want to think about fem and politics in game.
5599) lesbian characters is awful
5600) So disappointed with the storyline. The only good bits were the ones with Joel (flashbacks). Felt forced to play as Abby and hated that. The ending was so bad, too. Didn't make any sense why Ellie ends up letting Abby go.
5601) Joel and Ellie death made me very sad with the game, in addition to the leaks, this game is a shame, in addition to all the downgrade it had and the many bugs.
5602) druckerman has substituted everything you'd expect from a naughty dog narrative for a politically driven social commentary, which he was unable to embed seamlessly into an engaging story, resulting in a hollow virtue signalling disappointment.
5603) How can you make almost every media lie? It's more wise to spend $60 on a real dog.
5604) They just scrap the one thing that we want in this game. And poor writing to one of the best characters in gaming all time. Please don't put politics on game.
5605) The worst case scenario at how you can destroy a perfect game. This sequel is a shame for the first title. Too bad. I cry for the amount that I pay. Never again pre-order for ANYTHING!!!
5606) How in the hell did naughty dog mess this up, the critics have once again proven that they are entirely unreliable. People have been waiting for ages for this game just to be met with this. The biggest factor that makes it bad is the bloody story, the only thing that is good is the graphics but the negatives heavily (I MEAN HEAVILY) outweigh the positives, nothing innovative here. Please save your money and spend it on a good game or something else entirely. Also the leaks were right too, no big surprise there. How in the hell are these critic reviews not paid. If its not that it just shows me how SJW and woke they are overall. Expect them to downplay the user reviews.
5607) Never have I made a account just to rate something. Except Yelp.,Game was good starting off out as Ellie. Then that fken scene in the Mansion ruin everything I felt for the game. Took away  feelings I grew for the first game. I hope everyone stands up and voices their frustration to Sony and Naughty Dog. Pushing their ideas on to others. We want to enjoy a game. Not be upset towards the makers of it. Just very upsetting.,What was the point of the trailer when it was first revealed? Joel was alive and Ellie was looking for revenge. Why take him away so easily.
5608) An insult to fans of the first game. This game is giant **** joke. Expectations subverted indeed.
5609) Absolute **** trash, wanted to play a nice survival game, got a golf simulator.
5610) Metacritic removed my last review for this and won't let me copy/paste the old one. Oml. So basically Naughty Dog and Sony are sending false copyright strikes onto popular youtubers giving accurate spoiler free reviews. Nearly two years of hyping the game and using the return of Ellie and Joel only to have their story ruined in a **** plot twist derived from a choice based event from the first game. Remember the medical room? You left him alive? Well now he's dead and you're somehow to blame. Killed everyone inside? They still somehow know it was you.
5611) Not worth evaluating.,Pour manure into the game.,Pornography was more normally expressed in political correctness.
5612) never have i been more disappointed by a game in my life.,absolute travesty of storytelling, all writers of this game should go back to fanfiction.net
5613) **** Story I am so disappointed what they did. Such a shame for all gamers who waited 7 years
5614) Wow did this game ever suck.... I want my money back.... Dont buy this game!!!! The story was so bad... I cant believe they did that......
5615) Poor writing and good gameplay, but nothing special. subvert expectations at his finest.
5616) This sequal is a disgrace to video game industry unlike the first one,Garbage story telling,Garbage new characters,Same gameplay,Just some political messages 0/10
5617) This game had really poor writing, and this is a very heavy statement as it is a game that *should be* driven by story. The motives are unconvincing, forced cliche, and made no attempt to improve upon the previous game, and absolute insult to the fans of the game.,,If you came here and read my review, if you loved the first game, just don't buy and don't play this.
5618) That make-a-wish writer must be having a time of his life. Gameplay was boring too. Don't buy.
5619) Such an awful disrespect to the original story and the fans, i get that they wanna make some of the "people" ugly but making them looking that uncanny is sick, just avoid this game!
5620) This is one of the worst writings ı've ever seen.Graphic are top class tho.But doesn't matter cause my budgie can write a better story than this
5621) Oh my goodness what have they done to Joel and Ellie. Did the original writers get sacke? I didn't like their story at all and won't be playing this again, in fact i am going to trade this in asap and hope to get some money back.,Dreadful, dreadful story.
5622) Last of heteros 2 we hunt last hetero guyand kill him! İf he able to cut his dick of he defintly survive but no! He even have children before apocalypse! He will destroyed of course!
5623) It's not what NaughtyDog is good at, 7 years wait and it just doesn't live up to the hype of the first game. If you want a good last of us experience then play the first game again.
5624) I was 9 when I finished Half Life Episode 2, and I got Alyx as a reward of my waiting just on the day I turned 22. Talk about 'Time Flies' The difference is: Alyx was worth the wait even after 13 years, but 7 years of anticipation, marathon-ing the game on grounded, watching documentaries and lore videos of weeks in anticipation just for this **** to happen. I will never support ND again. **** naughty dog, hail Valve, hail CDPR.
5625) It’s F **** that’s comes from tumbler **** that’s What’s happening here I don’t how it’s 96 rating
5626) Where to even begin, allow me to resummon all the anger I have felt over the last few months since the first leaks. This game completely destroys the foundations of the first game and disrespects all of the characters that we loved. This game is about endless violence, a disturbing amount with no player choice in the matter. This game makes Joel and Tommy seem like brain dead morons that forgot they survived as hunters in this world, who just blindly trust a random group of strangers and leave their weapons in another room to get locked into a room completely surrounded and say, "oh well we live right over here, I'm Tommy and this is my brother Joel. WHAT YA'LL ACT LIKE YOU HEARD OF US!" completely out of character for them. Forcing a dumb early death that reaks of god awful poop tier writing. Druckmanns self insert character proceeds to spit on Joel's corpse much like he is spitting on the fan base. No sane fan of the first game will ever like this garbage. Naughty Dog and Druckmann have betrayed all of us. This is a revenge game WITHOUT REVENGE. That's right folks. At the end of it all Ellie has NOTHING and nobody left and decides to just let Abby go, after getting her fingers bitten off of course. This depressing game ends with her not even able to play the guitar anymore. JUST WHAT!!?? Who is this game even for Druck? IF YOU HAVE DEPRESSION DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME. 0/10 pure tumblr tier trash.
5627) This game was only made to make money. It has nothing to do with the wonderful original story and its characters. It's a shame how this storyline turned out! It makes me feel like they completely changed the authors.,Graphic isn't everything.
5628) The game is so bad the people who made it left the compney the worst game ever
5629) Very disappointing. An insult to the first game. Do not buy this and support this ****
5630) This game never happened. The story sucks ... very disappointing. The first one was way better.. the writers should be fired for creating this.. this was like playing through a dumb fan fiction..
5631) This game is horrible. It's not really anything I haven't already seen before. Comparing it to the original TLOU, this one feels bland. Don't get me wrong the visuals look stunning. but the story is awful and kills off most of what made the original TLOU so captivating. Bad gameplay, bad story...just...overall bad.
5632) This game is **** vile. We went from extremely good pacing, amazingly well written characters- to suddenly punishing those characters for decisions they made in the first game, just absolutely **** unnecessary. TLOU was the greatest game in the last decade for me. This **** actually hurts
5633) What is that game !! what nau-thy dog or may be ("agenda dog" i think that better than  the name they call themselves by it) do that for them ? just for praising them & let all they love the last of us part 1 why ? why ? why the story too too bad really i mean who wrote this b s,but the game play is mixed  not good not perfect  of course because "agenda dog" always the game play of these games always normal but  the story  not always but be good so that it s need really perfect story to hide any problem in game play but is what  is happens is  the opposite,i think if you play days gone (bad game) better than you play this s,& i want to know why IGn & the others gave this sh (not a game of course)  95/100 but  i think its rating is trash/10000,i m sorry but  i don't  like this game & thank you
5634) Is bad not fun do not buy I played for two hours and I didn’t like it wasn’t an enjoyable experience at all
5635) Absolutely horrible game. Complete fall from grace with the plot line the original had. I felt complete apathy after finishing the game and admit it you will too. The ending and Joel’s logic for trusting complete strangers makes no sense. Save your money and spend it on a game and company that deserves it. Also Ellie sparing Abby’s life is the laziest writing I’ve seen for the sake of “Subverting your expectations”. There is no love for the original characters and they try so hard to emotionally manipulate you to like Abby, even though she has no regrets about killing people like Ellie does
5636) Story was nonsense. Game play was basically same. Only thing that improved were visuals.
5637) Cant be worse. Full of politics. We cant trust metas anymore. Dont buy this nonsense.
5638) Very disappointed with the script of the game, but the gameplay is normal. I do not advise everyone.
5639) TLOU2 is what happens when talentless liberal hacks more interested in political agendas highjack a medium.,,Soulless, bleak story that completely and utterly craps on the legacy of the original game. Neil "we don't use the word fun" Druckmann is responsible for the massacre of this IP. In the game, the character Abby is seen reading a copy of City of Thieves by David Benioff. This is the same hack responsible for the massacre of the Game of Thrones TV series - does it surprise you that all these hack writers run in the same circles?,,Bought and paid for critics won't criticize this atrocity because of its inclusion of gay and trans characters.,,Heavily manipulative trailers for the game which showed certain characters in situations - in the game it's a completely different character assuming the same role.  Absolute trash and Naughty Dog deserves to go bankrupt for letting Druckmann destroy this IP.
5640) 2 hour into the game, Joel will be killed brutally with a golf club in front of Ellie by Abby. Then they force you to play as Abby for 10 hours. You have no choice. Throughout the game, you will be forced to make cruel decisions and then guilted into thinking you are a terrible being. You then play as Ellie angry and wanting revenge. When you finally get into the final fight..you let Abby go. I wasted $60 buying this garbage. I should’ve listened and believed the leak. 0/10
5641) A pandering game that disappoints wholly.,Joel dies.,Ellie dies.,Anyone important dies.
5642) this game proves that critic reviewer got paid to get high score.. this game was absolute garbage..,i give the first last of us 10/10, but this political game with huge plot hole, the story was so trashy..,the only good score was for graphic only..
5643) This game is so garbage,the story is trash and all the characters are trash,to even consider this a masterpiece should be a sin,the only redeeming qualities of this game are the graphics and joel(what they do to joel is despicable),but the gameplay is repetitive and the pacing is Horrendous,In this game they dumb down joel just so they can kill him off and turn him into a plot device so ellie can have a revenge arc but his death is made pointless cause ellie doesn’t even fulfill her arc she just lets abby(who is the worst character in the game and the person who killed joel) live,Ellie revenge arc is also meaningless cause she kills hundreds of people just to get to abby, but when she gets the chance the kill her she doesn’t,this pretty much just makes everything you did pointless cause you literally achieved nothin from it,Abby is the worst character in the game,she is a complete random who kills joel and they think that we are gonna want to play as her for like 1/3 of game,Why the **** would i want to play as the killer of the most beloved character in the game?,Also they try to make us sympathize with her but honestly I have no reason to care,This game is complete **** I recommend everyone not to waste there money on it
5644) Unfortunately people who work in the entertainment industry have to be careful about being critical and subjective about games and movies for fear of having a negative impact on their career. Say you write for a gaming website, that website recieved funding from a developer to promote a game and then you as a critic write a piece about how lackluster said game was, or how unimaginative the story was. Kiss you career goodbye, maybe not right away,  but it will happen. "Artists" don't want creative input,  they want to be told they're geniuses. Writing a negative review could also hurt future relations with potential customers or business partners. We need more honesty from game reviewers,  a 10/10 should never be used,  it means it's perfect or near too. The Last of Us 2 is no where near perfect. A typical combat system,  a cast of boring characters with less dimension than a piece of poster board,  the "shot from the rooftops virtue signaling", but most if all the destruction of the previous installments story. It is the Jim Belushi of sequels,  it wants so hard to be as good as the original and falls so short. Don't waste your time or money, wait until you can rent the game or borrow it from a friend if you really want to play it.
5645) This game has unfortunately left a bad taste in many gamers mouths, the final product embodied that, such a shame it couldnt be the sequel everyone wanted
5646) This game is overrated. People waited for this game since released TLOUP 1.
5647) Complete garbage. SJW game, NG ruined the game, politics don't belong in video games.
5648) They destroy the game by putting a very very bad story,The last ou us part 1 was my favourite game but this game is silly
5649) as a fan I'm really sad for what happened to Joel, the introduction of the new characters to me felt more like a political statement than a natural storyline.
5650) Worst story narrative ever, this game is not canon. It never happened. Such a disappointment.
5651) 7 Years ago we were given a game that captured our hearts in its story telling, a game that built a relationship between 2 characters that disliked each other at first, however by the end of that game you had an unimaginable bond between the two.,,The Last of Us Part II takes that game, and throws it in a dumpster then sets it on fire. This game failed in many ways to its predecessor. The characters you loved from the first game are not the same. The bold and harsh decisions made for you in the first game were justified. In this game they are forced and used as shock value. The gameplay is extremely repetitive by the half way point its almost tiresome to play. The cut scenes make up 11 hours of this game, yes, over half of this game you are forced to watch this hideous story play out. The other half you are forced to play as a character 99% of people do not wish to play.,,The hate on this game is not because of the social agendas being pushed so heavily, rather, its drawn out repetitive gameplay, terribly written story, and Neils promise to us (Part 1 fans) that this game was meant for us. I cannot believe that you built such an amazing world and characters only to tear it down rather than build it up.
5652) A videogame can be rated according to 5 Aspects of it: Sound, Gameplay, Graphics, Story and Performance.,If one category is so bad that the others suffer from it (like it runs only @ 1fps) it can destroy ever other aspects of it. With this Game this sadly is the Case. I would rate it 9/10 for the sound, 9/10 for the graphics, 9/10 for the performance and 7/10 for the gameplay... But the Story would get a 1/10 from me.,It similar to the last jedi in a sense that it goes out of it's way just to check some boxes and introduce unexpected turns of events with no foreshadowing that make no sense at all. It was so bad that it makes you want to quit the game. No matter how good the rest of the game is.
5653) Meh.. Not worth it. Naugthy Dog dropped the ball on this one.,Graphics looks okay, not really impressed.,This game is not worth your time
5654) If you close your eyes on logical inconsistences and part 1, this game can really surprise you from hate to real feelings and empathy. BUT this is valid if you drop the ending entirely and stop playing nearly at 80% of the game, after Elly and Abby meeting in theatre. The other part is just so dumb and trash, that I have no words to describe it
5655) Nobody should ever listen to so called "critics" ever again, they've proven to me that they are not to be trusted for the last time, they are all paid idiots who make trash in this world prolifer.
5656) If you are a fan of terrible writing, gameplay from 2013, and a cast of empty, lifeless characters that you're forced to play as and emphasize with this is the game for you. Out of a 25ish hour long game seeing Joel die two hours in is a stupid way to start a game. It leaves you wondering where the hell can the game go from this? Hunt abby for 23 hours? Oh wait nah, you play as Abby for half of it. The character that just killed Joel you are forced to play as for half the game. And the end, you get to play as Ellie but wait! You dont get revenge, no you let Abby go and now Ellie has nothing because her family left her. Terrible writing.
5657) Wtf is this? trailers and reviews portraied a much different game from the one I got, I feel lied to.,I m never buying again a naughty dog game on day one
5658) The masterpiece of game engineering, with the worst piece of **** game story. If you gonna play this game, do not play the part I. If you already played the part I, do not play this game.,The political correctness things did nothing for this score, but the story is just bad as hell.,This game made same mistake as "Spec Ops: the Line".... forces the players to do wrong thing without any other choice,blames players for doing that, makes player to confuse why have they done such hard works for. Furthermore, this game made this error with the two main characters of the previous title, Joel and Ellie. This makes the fans of previous title to feel their loved characters being treated very disrespectfully.
5659) Absolutely disrespectful. The creators of this game took the previous installment and spat on it.,Druckman had his way with beloved characters, and the scars left over will never heal.,Killing Joel and then forcing us to allow his killer to live is unforgivable.,,This is not canon. Instead it is the fanfiction of a deranged man, hellbent on forcing his political agenda down the throats of unsuspecting fans.
5660) This game is awful i will be using my account to review other games but i entirely created it at first to give my opinion that this is the single worst video game i have ever played in my ENTIRE LIFE and ive play Chess for 3 hours with my granpa who has allsheimers and keeps forgetting how to play.
5661) Completely disrespects the last game, wasn't fun, would not recommend,This game had potential, but the fact this game seems insistent on being misery porn and seeing needless suffering just for the sake of it. And the fact no character ever learns from any acts taken, the fact the game tries to guilt you for decisions taken out of your hands i am left asking, why even bother making this? Who would consider this a fun or enjoyable experience?
5662) Only thr first 2h are connected to the first game.... after that... hours of hours are useless to play, because at the end it doesnt matter what you did the ehole game
5663) Worst narrative full of plot holes. Nothing in this game makes sense, not to mention the forced agendas by the director of the game. Infinitely disappointed... So many years of waiting were for nothing! I will pretend part 2 does not exist..
5664) The worst game to ever come out of Naughty Dog... They threw the whole groundwork that was established in the first game in favor of a narrative that is littered with identify, gender politics and a petty revenge plot.
5665) When propaganda, politics, SJWs and Sark...sian pressure are more important than continuing with a great game.,I miss the times when games were not mainstream, just for nerd or not common people and there were no political interests in indoctrinate because the were not broadcasted everywhere as they are now. The only interest was to make real good games to make people enjoy and have fun, that simple. If we still prefer the ideology rather than common sense we are direct to disaster (people is even supporting censorship on bad reviews as the only good way to think is their way instead of giving good reasons on why this is a good game just for the sake of being totally political biased over a nonsense story).
5666) i can't believe this game devs. This game's best part was story and now we have terrible low budget love movie for teenagers. Gameplay is not bad. Graphics, atmosphere, combat scenes, sinematics etc is awesome but thats not work for me. Sorry. Don't waste time and money.
5667) False advertising replacing a character from a trailer with another, forcing players to play as unrealistic unlikable character for a long period of the game. A revenge story that isn't a revenge story. With shock value for the sake of shock value. Telling stories that don't fit the world and very few new enemies. Too political, forced sex scenes.
5668) Horrible experience it's a shame it's carrying the same name as the first the last of us
5669) story was very bad I didn't like it at all,The style of the story was terrible,And the dialogues were meaningless
5670) Shame shame shame.. they just ruind the story, characters for disgusting agenda
5671) How unfortunate. This is an example of game utterly miscalculating its audience. Nobody wants to be educated on how to think, least of all at the expense of some beloved characters.
5672) This is a prime example on how not to tell a story here. Joel’s death should have felt way more impactful on how they were trying to do it as well as so many other characters that fall with him but once you get to the end his death is meaningless. This would been an OKAY story if Abby died but it wasn’t. All this was... is throwing your characters into the “ “fire” for what a part 3?!?! No ground was covered in the second game at all.,For people not understanding why this is getting so much hate it’s because this is not how you tell a story and not just because we are hating on it for any reason.
5673) Let's star with topics:,► Gameplay = Trash,► Bugs? A lot,► History? Generic,► Characters: Superficial,,The sealing arruined the game 4 real,,R.I.P Joel Press F,,Worst game ever....,It's easy show a 4K scenes (scripted) on youtube...the downgrade is obscene.,In my opinion the "jornalists" reviews are fake, i believe 4 real they recieve money to make these reviews...
5674) The history of TLOU2 is a big **** compared with the first game that was very good done. The bigger trash of 2020, consider only the first game for to play. Game of communist, the trash of world.
5675) A game with an ugly heart filled with horrible and unlikable social justice characters. Truly we live in an age where beauty must be destroyed. People expected this to be great. Well done Naughty Dog. You successfully "subverted expectations". It's terrible.
5676) Completely out of left field a total disregard to the original. No body asked for this, complete disappointment. Could have been soo much better.
5677) They kill Joel very bad and political agenda even worst. It's much worst than the first one.
5678) just one word. its horrible. nothing much to say after sony ruined such a good story.
5679) Instead of following in the steps of its predecessor, the sequel throws away much of its character-development, atmosphere, and world-building for the sake of adding a playable antagonist. Despite early news promising the development of Ellie and Joel's bond, the latter is killed in the prologue of the game by said antagonist. Instead of naturally becoming a revenge story, the writers try their hardest to make the player emphasize with Abby - something incredibly difficult to accomplish if the player developed a connection to the protagonists from the first game. Characters close to Ellie die or abandon her unceremoniously throughout the course of the game in scenes that seem more reliant on shock value than good writing. Those who die are always taken out by Abby, and you'll occasionally play as her for these scenes. At the ending, Ellie saves Abby's life before challenging her to one last fight. Despite having two of her fingers bitten off in the struggle, Ellie gets the upper hand and is all set to drown the woman who has taken everything from her. With a brief vision of Joel flashing through her mind, she makes a disappointing decision to let go of Abby and allow her to get away. At the end of the day, Ellie is left with nothing. The player has gained nothing. Absolute trash of a game.
5680) Spoiler!,This game sucks, save yourself 60 bucks. How to ruin a killer application for playstation, well done ND
5681) ND Just ruined my joyful memories of Last of US Part 1 and treated Joel with disrespect. I do not care about how much beautiful graphically... It is rooten from inside... What a sick mentallity this Niel **** has.... Shame waiting for this 4 years and we have this dark dark game with a vometing ending...
5682) Gave up on this being anywhere to a good follow up a few hours in. If you like steaming garbage masquerading as storytelling, this is for you. If you like forced agendas in dystopia, here you go. Graphics were good.
5683) This game is one of the worst games ever made in terms of story-telling. I really don't care about the sequel (if you have the balls of making a sequel) because you guys took care of ruining the characters from the first game. characters that made the story much better in the past game.,,It happened to Star Wars, It happened to Ghostbusters, It happened to Charlie Angels, It happened to Birds Of Prey, It happened to Onward, it happened to Game Of Thrones and NOW, it's happening to The Last Of Us.,,What other example do you guys need to know, to finally learn that good stories and politics, will never be a good mix?
5684) Terrible story, destroys legacy characters and introduces dull boring characters. Do not buy.
5685) Omg such a disappointment and such bad,disguasting not worth to play story i really dont know how to fell after the ending but one thing i know naughty dog is finished itself
5686) This is not the sequel to The Last of Us.From Sony, I expected a better.,And of course many thanks to SJW idiots...
5687) I don't know what the **** drama of the game. This version is a historically big JOKE of game.
5688) The only decent thing about this game is the museum scene, other than that the this is a disappointment!
5689) Stayed up til midnight after waiting what feels like forever for this. The story is terrible, the writing is questionable and takes you out of the experience more often than not. I’ve avoided all the leaks so I can play it fresh but after about 12 hours in I’m just disappointed. If you loved the first, avoid this because it will just ruin a great first game. So disappointed.
5690) Jesus, the story is just terrible and the new characters are even worse.,Everything bad with this game (and even the company that created it) has been already said.,A total shame of a game. Waste of money and time.
5691) Not going to spoil anything but I'm not into that whole transgender LGBTQ SJW agenda. So far I don't see what people see in the game. Its brutal sometimes but most is boring as hell. They tried too hard and feels like the story was forced. Doesn't seem natural. Its overrated for sure.
5692) Played it for the First Time and already i have seen many plot Holes and unlogical Charakter decisions.,For example: right before Joel gets Killed, they all are in the Same room. Tommy should have Seen Abby behind him with a Shotgun pointing at Joel. Camera angle doesnt Show, but Tommy should have Seen it.
5693) This game is a mess, it wants to be unpredictable at the cost of stupid acts. The gameplay and graphics are decent, but the narrative is what totally destroys the experience, from the prologue you can see how they dispose of one of the important characters from the first game in such a horrendous way and the supposed lesson Ellie learns in the ending doesn't make any sense. This game appeals to the morbid to attract attention, but without a good story it becomes tiresome. The franchise did not deserve this type of treatment.
5694) Neil this post is addressed to you. Why did you put propaganda of your values into the game? many people do not share it. You did it on purpose. The first part was great. The plot of the second part is complete nonsense. I liked the gameplay. But the story is pure nonsense and also with propaganda.
5695) The creator must have hated the first game. So sad to see how beloved characters are treated, just because of the politcal climate in 2020
5696) It was a game that I really expected.,But I was really disappointed.,This is a zero-point game.
5697) complete dumpster fire of a game pushed as a political agenda by druckmann.
5698) If you really want to kill off somebody, make it reasonable, make it relevent.,Look at Shepard, Lee and Arthur Morgan. This is how you kill your protagnists.,this one? no.,And who wrote this play? Rion Johnson?
5699) This game is one big disappointment in 2020 i dont recommend it to play its not even a fun game .
5700) As a naughty dog fan everything they have blessed us with has stuck with me. Wanting to try  wumpa fruit with Crash, hang out with Jak and Daxter, or adventure with Nathan Drake. Evey game felt like a work of art. This did not.
5701) What a waste. Easily the best looking game on any platform, but let down perhaps the worst storytelling of the century. Distasteful and spits of the legacy of the first game.
5702) Totaly destroyed the story dont know why NAUTY DOG did this to the game im rly dispaointed
5703) Sick twisted writer , first he kills off your fav character then he makes u play as the killer for half the game , disgusting human
5704) My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined.,I waited 5 years to play this,And they gave me a horrible intro and **** ending,I just want to forget about this game.
5705) Part 2 deconstructs all that was good from Part 1. This story makes no sense whatsoever. Why the hell am I doing any of this? Controls are cumbersome and swampy. I guess visuals are OK, but it's the end of the PS4 life cycle and they spent a gazillion dollars making this game, so this simply meats expectations; nothing special, and honestly doesn't mean anything if the game overall is boring with an ugly and disgusting story.,,I think we'll just put this on the shelf and find something else to play the rest of the night.
5706) From being a **** sequel, through **** plot up to buying/biased reviews and sony's censoring hipocrisy as a two perfect cherries on top... There's not a single good thing to talk about, just a total failure.
5707) Incredible potential but falls flat on its face with unlikeable characters and cheap tropes. I wish I never played it. The storyline is just atrocious and lazy.
5708) A dumb story with a delusional ending, a jerky animation of a murder, a dumb left agenda, Joel’s death, all nps if from Falout 76, a stealth curve in the grass(  it`s revolution ). Noty dog, and we waited for seven years ??
5709) No respect for old fans. Dogmatic PC. Perfect game version Last Jedi. Sorry. I AM " UNEDUCATED"
5710) Bad story , downgraded , bad game. Bad story , downgraded , bad game. Bad story , downgraded , bad game.
5711) Disappointment of generation. Druckmann -  mistake. He is ruiner franchise, horrible scenarist.,Bruce Straley was real genius. Not Neil.
5712) Aside from PC, there is no story probability and the play itself is boring to force justification. It's a game for producers and critics to brainwash other gamers with the idea of having moral superiority, not for gamers.
5713) They killed Joel within the first 2 hours in the most forced situation possible. Joel would never put himself in that situation and they unceremoniously killed him.,,Naughty dogs destroyed their greatest franchise and it breaks my heart.
5714) The story telling in this game was so bad that I made an account to leave a bad review. I never review anything, but I feel like I would’ve been better off just flushing $60 down the toilet. If you’re looking for a satisfying ending, look elsewhere because this one makes no sense. Yes, you become the better man, er woman after the main villain eats your fingers and you think about guitars. You don’t want revenge after you tell the main villain you will kill her as she kills Joel in front of you. You just want to play guitar with your eight fingers. I’m not joking, that’s the end scene.
5715) The story sucks so much, killing off one of the best characters in gaming history is a bad idea
5716) Take away the LGBT agenda for why it’s dabavilia and return the beautiful women to the games and not this pumped
5717) This is a complete spit on the face to all the fans of this beloved franchise, this game it compares to the Disney Starwars sequels and Games of Thrones season 8. I don’t why corporations like this pander to sjw audience when they don’t even bother to buy games unlike us fans that we love this games
5718) Purely garbage, graphics are the only worth thing in this game. Use the money to buy some cocaine.
5719) You can easily say that This The worst most awaited game of this generation by far...
5720) This is absolutely crap. Can I swear here? Because this game deserves some bad words. The story is absolute **** Did the writers just say **** it all and wrote whatever the heck they could come up with at 6 am in the morning, lacking sleep and going to work while your family is falling apart back home, because crunch, amirite?,,Yeah, 0/10, request a refund.
5721) I feel so sorry for the whole developer team................................................
5722) What a disappointment, one of my favorite games ever has been destroyed with this new agendas from people that doesn't care what others think or want.
5723) Trash. Deviation from characters for "woke" propaganda **** Don't waste your time or money.
5724) Characters are boring and bland. The game does nothing new or intevative. I would not finish the game even if someone payed me to.
5725) It’s like, really really bad. The entire plot serves no purposes at all, and the inconsistency goes from gameplay to the storyline, to the ending. Anyone can make a game with good visuals and sound if they have cash, but storyline is what makes games in 2020 different from 1960.
5726) I'm been a Playstation fan for a long time and i can't remember the last time I played a Playstation game and felt the anger that I do today. I'm not sure why the story choices were made and not sure why the multiplayer was removed from this game. Gameplay is better but still is lackluster. AVOID!
5727) Graphic is awesome, but yeah, if you kill my favourite character after hours trying to make me empathize with him, this is the vote you get. After years of waiting, they ruined one of the best games ever made. Thank you Sarkeesian for this.
5728) Last of us part 2 -> Last (game) of Naughty Dog. If this game gets GOTY, it means that GOTY is no longer a trusted place.
5729) This is a really bad game, and you will not enjoy it. In terms of gameplay, they've innovated nothing. It's still the same passable stealth and shooting system from seven years ago. The Last of Us was always carried by its narrative, and that's where this game completely falls apart. It's part of a larger trend by egotistical directors who think that "subverting expectations" is the equivalent of good writing. It's shock value masquerading as substance. And that's on top of the baffling and nonsensical contradictions in characterization.
5730) Wtf is this shirt. I cant even believe neil druckman and pc plagued team ruined such a sequel like this.  This should be renamed to Last of Us : Abbie the golfer wtf
5731) Unbelievably terrible ending with a clearly visible agenda being pushed. Imagine if Kratos just decided he would go ahead and spare Zeus
5732) political corrected piece of ****,terrible story,boring charactors , just do not buy it
5733) I expected more from this game, I read it had a qualification of 95 and I thought this could be one of the best game of all the times, but, to be honest I'm disappointed.
5734) To be honest, I don't understand why a game has to be used as a means to achieve an end, rather than use it as an end itself.,,I dont care if the reason for doing this game was because the game devs got bullied because LGTB... i got bullied as a child for wearing big glasses, but if im in a creative process of a AAA game, lets say, LOTR themed, with a journey + big ending battle, I will not make it around a leading character wearing glasses + a background story made it to protect that guy and how amazing and unvelievable even tho wearing glasses he is, and showing the people how immerssive we should be, and more concious about them...please **** off...you ruined evertyhing, the thing is that they didndt overcome their own LGTB traumas, we dont have any problem against LGTB, they do.,,What do you have between hands? A Post-Apocaliptic and Zomied-ish themed game, shut the **** up, focus on the important stuff and put aside your traumas that will make the game less attractive for the lets say...vast majority? (3.4 score)? You got what you deserve.
5735) Back then Naughty dog made The last of us, uncharted. Now they make... this
5736) The most bad ending i have ever seen in a game ... it's not even an ending .
5737) Destroyed all character development from the first game in order to provoke a shallow revenge tale with NO resolution. They try to make you sympathize with the un-likeable antagonist, an entirely futile effort. Graphics and gameplay are good, same as the last which generally would be worth at least a 4/10 on its own but the way the team disrespected this franchise lands em a fat 0 from me. Do not buy. OR if you must, buy second hand so ND doesn’t get money for it. There’s gonna be a LOOOOOT of used copies available
5738) I think we already agree that the sequel never exist. Like what do you expect its not the same writer, who didn't understood the character to begin with. TLOU2 is non canon atleast for me, and yes SJW really ruined the series perfectly ,the good thing about this game is just the graphics but it won't change a lot. "SJW RUINED EVERYTHINGS",7 years of dissapointment
5739) Once again it is proven that there is a massive conflict of interest when it comes to 'official game critics' and these AAA game studios. The game isn't nearly as great as these 'critics' make it out to be and it is clearly trying to shove a certain social ideology down our throaths.,,This practice needs to stop ASAP!,,I spit on these anti-consumer 'critics' and these game studios who are trying to push politics into our beloved games.
5740) The Last of Us Part II is an abysmal failure. Graphics and environmental details are at their absolute best and although the gameplay may get tedious at times, I found it very satisfying overall. That being said, The Last of Us was always about the story primarily. It was not hailed as a masterpiece because of its gameplay, but because its character interactions and story were so good. This game fails primarily because Neil Druckman got more obsessed with his "art" and agenda then he did about making a satisfying and fulfilling sequel. You watch the main character of the last game be brutally and disrespectfully killed after having him break character completely. Besides flashbacks, Joel and Ellie have less than a handful of scenes together and their relationship is barely built upon. You are then forced to play as his killer for what amounts to nearly half of the game while they blatantly try to force you to empathize with them. In an attempt to make you feel bad (as is seemingly this games entire purpose) Druckman vilifiies the main characters you've come to love. After killing her way through countless random survivors to get to Joel's killer, Ellie lets them go in some absolutely atrocious epiphany moment. It ends on Ellie existing in her biggest fear, being alone. A true and absolute failure in every way but visuals and being a post apocalyptic murder simulator. Even at that, it constantly guilts you out of any enjoyment you could get from it. Cannot express my disappointment and hate for this game and its director. Based on gameplay and set pieces the game could garner high praise, but with a story this poor, everything else that could be good is rendered moot.
5741) The story-line is bad, the writers did a very bad job with this. The plot is filled with holes. Graphically this game is absolutely beautiful! But the story... Not for me. Thanks for trying I guess? Refund requested.
5742) This is fullish **** must going to hell and burning there. Game sucks . Just bottom
5743) This game is simply trash, it does not holds a candle to the first one, the game is full of propaganda, plot holes and baseless dribble coupled that with the same old gameplay with little to no significant changes bad ai and long stretches of literally nothing but dull cinematics and talking turn this into just a glorified waking simulator
5744) I've made an account to be able to express how disappointed and let down I feel about TLOU2. As probably most fans, I've absolutely loved the first part and got very emotionally attached to Ellie and Joel - this is the first game I've ever pre-ordered, and I've been playing video games since the late 1980s. I hope this paints a picture on how much I was looking forward to this.,I can't believe it has come to this, but they somehow managed to ruin everything.,Ok, so first things first: people who take issue with the characters being the way they are are obvious haters. I can't comment on how well done they are, how "included" and "represented" the related social groups feel with the characters in TLOU2, but what a character (or a person) for that matter IS is less important to the story than what the character DOES. Whether some characters being transgender, gay, or black or white adds to the story or not is a topic to be discussed, perhaps, but I don't think it takes away anything from the game.,However, the issue with TLOU2 is a glaring and monumental one, and I haven't god the faintest idea how someone, somewhere, had a meeting about what they will do with the game, and they all agreed this was a good thing? I can't comprehend someone would propose to force the players of TLOU2 to play as a character that kills Joel with a golf club and then bites Ellie's fingers off?,I'm sorry, you want me to do what? I can't possibly like being forced to play, let alone identify with, a character that literally kills and tortures maybe my two favourite video game characters ever? What the hell is the matter with you, people? Who thought it would be a good idea to have TLOU2 be played from a perspective of someone who hates Ellie!?,Nobody, I repeat, NOBODY cares about Abby. We don't care about what happened to her, we don't care about why she is angry, and we most certainly don't care about biting off Ellie's fingers.,This is basically Top Gun 2, where Maverick is murdered in the first five minutes, and then the rest of the movie is about about some random pilot doing loops in a Cessna.,Or Life is Strange 3, but you get to play as Jefferson and do you know what (for the love of God, please don't ever make this happen).,I don't understand the thinking behind continuing a story about two characters so deeply loved by the fans and the community, only to get it seen from a perspective of a random person nobody cares about. This has to be one of the biggest "what were they thinking?" moments of video games industry.,Apart from that, the game is... I don't care. I bought it to see Joel and Ellie, not kill the former with a golf club, and mutilate the latter.,In short, don't buy this game if you are a TLOU fan. I hope one day we can pretend none of this ever happened.
5745) The fame has great graphics but a terrible story and plot that ruin the first game completely.
5746) Completely disappointed. The game is repetitive, graphics are good. Feels like the writers forgot what the first game and the characters were about
5747) Unfortunately, all I can say is the game's a Waste of potential..................
5748) What a mess,Having all the money from sony and all the tech from naughty dog to make this ??,Is this what you guys do ?,You want your player to feel hate and stuff like that . So why you dont create the feelling ?,Ofcurse . Why trying when you have joel to kill like saveges,You won neil have fun with your GOTY But fans dont give a f### about you anymore,I mean true ones for sure There is allways some people looking for graphics and action in a game . Not anymore
5749) The game is another example of why identity politics and woke nonsense should stay out of entertainment.  Stop ruining our beloved characters,  Neil literally spits on Joel after she-hulk goes full golf town on him..  absolutely disgraceful, then  expects us to enjoy playing as Abby??? Makes no sense just like the terrible ending.
5750) The history is focused on superficial drama, like a Brazilian novel. I expected a game to solve the mystery and responses behind the "cordyceps". Instead of we've got a sexual dilemma. The true is that a horse worth more than a woman in an apocalyptic scenario.
5751) It's just embarrassing to look at.,Imagine just relentlessly slaughtering hundreds of people and several dogs just to get to the person who killed the equivalent of your dad and stopping at them because you have an epiphany right after they literally bit your fingers off during the fight. Like, okay. Would never happen. If Ellie actually killed Abby it would have been an overall better story. Still bad, but better than what actually happened. And the ENTIRE TIME you're playing Abby, you just wanna go back to Ellie. You never, ever, ever care for Abby or friends. You can't. You just keep thinking about how she killed Joel. I dunno if they were ever expecting us to like Abby, or if we eventually were just supposed to, but it never happened for me. Not even close. I was so mentally checked out of her story halfway through. It was so boring.,,And even Ellie's story, I never really cared at all about Dina, and I straight up disliked Jesse. The best parts of the game were when Joel and Ellie were together again. And in my opinion, if those are the most enjoyable story parts, then there's a disconnect/failure with the game. Cause it means I'm still connected to/invested in the past. So much so that now that it's gone, I don't actually care about the present in the game.
5752) So they killed Joel in the most humiliating way possible, killed every other character the player would care about, left us with no reason to continue playing the game but to avenge Joel but then we let the murderer walk away in the end just like that? WoW I never thought you could ruin one of the best games ever and shove it into the dirt with one hand. Besides all these unnecessary gay porn scenes. I can't believe they did this to my favourite game definitely would not recommend buying this.
5753) AAA visual AAA game play. One of the worst character creation, and story.  .....
5754) Well...,I am not a guy who afraid of violent representation on media, but this game makes me sick, and I cannot play but to delete it...
5755) Joel dies... with no honnor no respect to his name, just gets beat with a stinking golf club... no regard to the first game and its adding the main plot of a girl that Joel killed the dad of but wasnt even mentioned in the 1st game... these games are about the story and u f up the first one with this. Not even gonna include this game to the last of us continuity just gonna forget about it, but its hard when they are such amazing characters that you cant forget... naughty dog u f up
5756) Absolutely horrible, way to kill a series naughty dog. Great work Neil Druckman, complete garbage.
5757) I don’t even want to elaborate on my heartbreak for this series. What’s done is done I guess.
5758) First 20 minutes is fun,then becomes repetitive and boring,i wish i can have my money back
5759) I was scammed by reviews to buy this game. Nothing about this game feels right to me.
5760) Well, Sounds Like Naughty Dogs is losing his talent in making video games. They've ruined all of those loveable characters from the first game and force us to play the role of a sadistic trans for 10 **** hours. Hope they don't make a third one. I lost all those love for this game.  Man the first one was such a great game but this sucks.
5761) The story and characters are utter garbage, what a way to spit on the face of the fans...
5762) Do not listen to official critics, they are corrupt. This game made me feel sick, it is an insult to gamers. Do not support this game or the developers.
5763) How can anyone decide to make a game where you kill of the main character and then make you play as the killer? Can you imagine the number of games that would suck if at the end you just didn’t kill the boss? What if kratos got to zues and said “never mind I forgive you” **** game, they better make up for it w online.
5764) What a way to ruin the story, really disappointing. New characters with 0 personality and forgivable
5765) I will never buy another game from Naughty Dog or anyone who worked on this project who worked in the department responsible for the story. Avoid this game just watch it on YouTube and see for yourself. Looks great plays clunky and the story is horrible. What an absolute let down
5766) Got last season.. Db gt.. Scrubs S9 ..Glass.. The last of us 2 Oh don't mind me iam just naming stuff that disappointed me as a fan and i focus on forgetting them cuz i keep focusing on how good thier other parts were..
5767) A sequel should’ve never been made with the worst writers in video game history. You guys make my 3rd grade comic book look like a **** masterpiece.
5768) Cant be worse than this. Since I bought Ps4 5years ago, this game has the worst storyline ever.
5769) Honestly I took craps that were more enjoyable than this game. I would rather play Superman N64 than to play TLoU2.
5770) Why you guys did not pay attention to the motives of the characters and went out of nature. This instinct is in the human body. You did not invent things that no one else wants but you must consider this. Just as you want to prove your opinion, there are others whose opinions must be respected. Please take care of the story and your work as game developers. Why not focus on the basics or know what the players want?
5771) I'm not even going to entertain a lengthy review for this absolute atrocity of a game so I'm going to keep it to 1500 characters at most,just dont even entertain the thought of purchasing this dumpster fire of a game.The game just spits in your face over and over again just so the people behind this game can ride high on their "inclusivity" horse they have zero regard for the characters we grew to love and just push their stupid inclusivity agenda over and over,no one wins in this story apart from that mutant that has taken over the plot of the game.I dont care for the fact she is transgender,to be honest that doesn't bother me,she is just a **** character and is put in the limelight while the two characters WE LOVE,yeah I hope you heard that the CHARACTERS WE LOVE are pushed to the back burners and one (most peoples favourite character mind you) gets his skull caved in with a golf club by our new main character,Ellie isnt even our main anymore how sad is that.Ill finish with this,dont trust the critic reviews cause this game is absolute **** **** that deserves to be buried along with Neil Druckmanns entire **** career.
5772) They destroyed all the good memories left by the first game. Playing TLOU 2 is a total waste of time.
5773) The character development is really bad, what an awful sequence of the game. In the trailers of the game, they lied about a lot of things. The plot has a lot of holes. The mechanics of the game is the same of the first game no improvement at all.
5774) Lol so this is the story.,Ellie witnesses Joel her father figure being murdered by a mediocre, wannabe, try hard, no good, sook (Abby).,She gets upset and goes on a rampage of revenge. She Kill's a couple of Abby's Friends which didn't really have much to do with the whole **** show other than being willing witnesses.,She comes all this way while getting Jesse killed, Tommy shot, she loses Dina and their baby only to spare Abby in the end
5775) I want to be crystal clear whit one specific detail because we all think similarly so i'll go straight to the thing that's killing me. If anyone ever golfs Ellie, Joel would've killed every last one of them in the whole country. He would've become The Last Of Us. The fact that the story is so depressing to the point that leaves Ellie completely alone is beyond disturbing. Its almost a torture to play the game. I mean, there is nothing wrong making a game with a darker thematic, i say darker because it's actually quite gnarly and sick.  I just feel sad for her and. I really don't care about the so call Agenda related issues. I can take it, but the general tone after "that death" is just sadness.
5776) The stupid dodge system has turned the game's fight mechanics into a rhythm game.  It sucks.  You can't even open a fight with a punch.  You have to start with a dodge.,Hot garbage, minus the heat.
5777) Media ratings are misleading. There is no explanation for the shortcomings of the game. The plot of the game is like a piece of ****.
5778) i dont get it. did the writers for part 1 get fired and replaced by 12 year old brainwashed fanfic writers? i havent seen writing this bad since the last jedi and GoT season 8. this is not enjoyable, not artistic, not fun, plainly weird and really really sad that someone actually allowed this to happen. we need a reboot or a complete remaster because this is the lowest point in gaming outside of monetary issues.
5779) Fridge Simulator was a huge disappointment. Definitely the most WeirdChamp game I've ever played.
5780) very good game, nice job, team. I really felt that when I saw the first cut scene, get it, patriarchy! Also, non binary genderless male was a good addition to the game.
5781) This game sucks it has sad ending and even the whole 30 hours ellie goes on killing spree and at last lets abby go. Seriously? Was this the point of  the game. I wish it should have never been released. And joel just dies within 2 hours if the game. This is what you call pure ****
5782) This game has very good gameplay, but the story is dull and feels forced.,It was not an good experience
5783) They Ruined a good game, worst story line I've ever witnessed, massacred the game fully, can't believe it
5784) Great visual effects and gameplay,,Terrible continuation of the story with no satisfying end
5785) This game is one big disappointment in 2020 i don't recommend it to play it's not even a fun game
5786) Really should be named "The Last of Druckmann" because it's what the community is calling for at this point. From the inflated ego, to blatantly terrible storytelling, to the same damn game mechanics. I was fortunate to play a friends copy and glad I didn't spend a dime. Violence was good, necessary even, until the end. It's Far Cry 5 all over again, no satisfying payoff. Getting rid of Druckmann might be the ending we deserve.
5787) TBH i don't mind killing Joel in the sequel, but at least make a good proper send off  like making his a death an honorable death or sacrificial death for Ellie, instead they did him dirty. In the first game Joel never trust any strangers while in this game they made him a complete idiot, Plus WTF with all the critics giving this game 10/10? This game deserve a negative score for making us waiting for 7 years only to gives a middle finger to all of us in the face!
5788) Terrible writing that butchered the story. Great visuals indeed, but what of it, if the story sucks? Would anyone play this game if it weren't false advertised that much?
5789) Dumb decision making, unlikable characters, outdated gameplay, full of plotholes.
5790) it is barley a game its a really boring soap opera that is a far cry from the story build up from the original. when you have to push yourself just to get through the next part it is not a game anymore. graphics are top notch but the game is full of bugs, horrible written AI scripts bugging around or doing nothing.,,should have just made it a CGI movie people could buy, and sony and naughty dog milking all these overpriced extra items to buy a 2300$ guitar come on really? just wait for it to go down to 20$ thats a fair price.
5791) Good graphics, but story and gameplay outdated. TLoU was way better I think they tried to much about this game.
5792) the Joel I remember would’ve seen this from a mile away.
5793) Pure trash. This was as big of a let down as season 8 of GOT. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. Give it 1 week and buy it for $5 game basket at Walmart. The graphics were great don’t get me wrong, the story however was god awful. I get killing Joel randomly to show that he wasn’t a god, but to have Ellie turn the other cheek after killing hundreds of people after she gets a chance for revenge? Terribly and sloppy writing.
5794) Spit in the face of everyone who loved the first game. On no green earth is this a good game by any stretch. You are forced to witness the death of a beloved character and then play as the murderer of said character all the while the game wants you to sympathize with them. Then towards the end, Ellie can not even bring herself to take revenge but seems to have no problem killing hundreds of people instead. This game may receive lots of criticism for political reasons, I am just appalled and the disrespect this game showed towards the first one. Would not recommend, save your money folks.
5795) The story was horrific even though the gameplay was barely decent.,,Us fans waited 7 years for a great new arrival and what we got in return was a pile of vile trash.,,I tried to enjoy this game regardless of all the bad reviews but honestly could not force to trick myself.,,False advertising to promote their game is just a red false flag. 0/10. WOULD NEVER pay again for a naughty dog game.
5796) Influencers and youtubers lured me into buying this generic third person shooter with shockvalue cutscenes. Druckman **** destroyed the story with that nonsense **** If you want to be inclusive no problems with that, but what's this politically charged crap? If you want a GOOD homosexuality inclusion, look at games like Dragon Age Origins. This game feels like an unnecessary attention cookie to jump on the sjw bandwagon. So here's my 2 cents and my **** refund.
5797) Holy god the story was so god awful I waited 7 years for this. I wanted to quit so many times though out the Abby line. Completely devoid of an interesting or satisfying plot. The graphics where okay and the gameplay was the same as always which does get old. Solid use of destroying all character development from the previous game and forgetting to develop characters in this one. I do not suggest buying this game if not only for the graphics.
5798) Awful story, wasting characters, false trailer, and ruined one of the best game series.,,R.I.P. Joel.
5799) The video game equivalent of The Last Jedi.,,Don't buy this game if you care about the characters or anything the previous game set up.
5800) Everything built up in the previous game was destroyed here. Side characters weren't memorable, story made no sense, and the ending was absolutely garbage. The devs tried to go for realism by killing characters randomly, but this makes for horrible story telling where all your favorite characters will end up dying.
5801) Honestly most dissapointing game of the generation for me. I saw the leaks but still wanted to go in open minded and enjoy the game for what it has to offer. While the gameplay is ok and the grafics are good everything about the story turned out to be even worse than exspected. First time being dissapointed with ND. I really don't get how all those reviewers brought this game up to a 95.
5802) Clear political agenda affected the characters and story we know and love. Nuff said
5803) This game is a tragedy. Following up on one of the most critically acclaimed and popular titles of the PS3, there were certainly high expectations for The Last of Us Part II, and it has not only failed to meet those expectations, but has become emblematic of a far larger problem in gaming, and the entertainment industry as a whole.,,To start, I can see the spirit of many good ideas throughout. The visuals, the gameplay, the music, it's all top-notch. The framework for interesting narrative and character developments is present, but what has been applied to that framework is frankly terrible. What could have been a compelling tale of revenge, given Abby and Ellie's near identical personal quests to 'kill their father's murderer', becomes a poorly handled mess as desperate attempts to make Abby appear more likable and relatable fall apart with her ultimate characterization being that of a dangerous psychopath, consumed by her own bloodlust and unchecked by the lawless nature of this post-apocalyptic world. What's worse, is as a person of LGBTQ+ status, her poor characterization feeds into the prejudices many people unfortunately hold to this day, resulting in a character that feels less like positive representation and more exploitation. Ellie, on the other hand, is made out to be far worse than we know her to be in a clear attempt to improve the perception of Abby. And the same is certainly true of former series protagonist, Joel, who is made out to be a monster.,,Abby's past is framed in a manner that neglects Ellie's lack of consent in the operation that would've killed her, trying to further endear her, as well as the posthumous representation of her father, to the player despite their complicity in the murder of a young girl. And while there is opportunity for a deeper exploration of 'sacrifice for the greater good' it goes largely untouched.,,The game's story and characters all are mishandled and misused at best, or outright abused at worst. Now, does this make the game a 0 / 10? No. What does is the impetus of The Last of Us Part II and what it represents in media.,,It's difficult to miss the controversy over the last decade. 'Subversion of expectations' has certainly made its rounds as an excuse for rushed, forced and sloppily handled properties. There's also the implication, particularly in gaming journalism, of a 'cut-off' of insider information which in turn can lead to such outlets losing traffic and by extension, money. It's difficult to remain a competitive news source when you've been restricted access to review copies, trailers, and interviews all because you've been critical of a particular company. But that's not the biggest problem here. That award goes to the sheer venom and spite many companies and teams in the entertainment industry have towards their fan base. To see the directors, writers, producers, all of these major personalities associated with movies, TV shows, and games to show such open contempt for their detractors and critics and to see associated news outlets scurry to their defense is far beyond insulting. We live in a world where if a film releases starring a female lead and it is panned by audiences, there are marketing crews to spin the criticism as sexism to undermine their validity. If a video game releases and consumers flock to berate it, it's classified as 'review bombing' or 'trolling' or sometimes also 'sexism', 'racism', or 'LGBTphobia'. In the Last of Us Part II's case it's all of the above.,,This practice isn't just becoming normalized either. It IS the norm. And that's unacceptable. Entertainment media should thrive because of its audience, not in spite of them. The Last of Us Part II is yet another case study in a long, long list of these controversies. It is far from the first and sadly I fear it'll be far from the last.
5804) How can I put this? not sure but here goes. First game was a masterpiece story that evolved with characters we came to love throughout game, feeling genuine emotions when Ellie was in danger As a fatherly figure trying to protect her it gave us beautiful experience. On other hand we have this abomination totally degrading to its first part yes game play and graphics are on higher level but story is utterly disgusting no one should put himself/herself to sit though this hot garbage and ruin experiences they received from the first part.
5805) Lesbian here who owns the collector's edition. I was extremely excited for this game and had pre-ordered on the first day. The only true last of us is in my favorite games of all time. I was excited up until the first leaks came out. I had a small piece of hope that it would be at least somewhat good as I already expected Joel would probably die in the squeal just not in the way the leaks showed. When I played the game and saw how they made Joel/Tommy go against their characters, by telling these people where they live and their names when they do not know these people at all. The way Abby just kills Joel when at this point the player has no idea who Abby makes her insufferable. All the work they do to try and make her sympathetic does nothing. At the end of the game, I agree with Ellies's decision to still go after Abby cause 'it can't all be for nothing'. It does not make sense that she would almost just let Abby go, she had just killed a man to get information on where Abby is. The ending is inconsistent with Ellie's character, as the entire game she has been killing people to try and get to Abby, and it is stupid she did not just shoot her in the head. Ellie's ending is bad and she does not even get revenge if she had just killed her straight away all that would be different is she would still have 10 fingers. A waste of £160.
5806) i liked previous series, so i expected this would be even better. i was wrong. story , characters , everything is bad about this game. very Disappointed.
5807) I was waiting for a masterpiece, but got one of the worst games. “The Last of Us” was one of the best games I played, the plot of “The Last of Us 2” is one of the most disgusting, it seems, the developers decided to spoil what they created. They took and killed one of the protagonists of the first part of the game, and put another in his place. It’s better to eliminate the heroine herself or her friend ...,I am sorry for the money spent on this game.,Currently the worst Sony exclusive.,My rating for the game:,Graphics 10,Gameplay 7,History 0.,Since the main thing in the game is the story itself, the result is 0.,And now it seems impossible to believe the critics, only those who played ... This is clearly seen in another game, where critics smashed the game, and the players liked it. I advise everyone Days gone, to replace The Last of Us 2 ... The game is really good.
5808) Nope! Nope! Nope! What a way to end the franchise...in the first 2 hours of the game.
5809) Could have been the best game of all time, but it suffered from a bad narrative.,I got the game early, I liked the world, but hated every character in it.
5810) This game is an insult to life itself.
5811) This game sucks, Neil Druckmann managed to end one of the best franchises of all time, just mediocre, horrible.,,An affront to all the fans, mixed their mediocre ideology making one of the most shameful games of all time.,,Fully purchased positive reviews, these reviewers are a disgrace and do players a disservice by deceiving and selling an illusion that we only discover the truth after spending money on such crap.
5812) This game is a shame, seven years waiting for a great sequel and they create a ridiculous story like that, the priority was not the fans but putting all possible agendas in a game. Even a five-year-old child would have made a better story. The beautiful graphics and details don't save anything when the main focus is the narrative.
5813) Neil Druckmann has been trying to shift the blame to gamers who don't like the SJ issues. And that's pathetic.,,The story is at Grade F by killing a lovable protagonist and replace with a douchebag regardless of his/her/its gender.
5814) Killing one of the most beloved gaming characters for pure shock value, then going into a quest of revenge killing tons of people along the way just to suddenly decide its bad to kill and let the murderer go is completely idiotic
5815) Visuals- better than the first game.,Gameplay- About the same. Moving things around to get from place to place replaced with jump. Story- Pretty much uprooted the first game, put into a fire pit, and burned. The characters are turned 180 degrees and pretty much unnoticeable. Post apocalyptic doesn't mean anything in this game. It has gone from a game of survival in which you need to survive with wits into a revenge plot that makes characters unlikable to the point of setting down your controller and returning the game. I found no enjoyment playing this story.
5816) The game is terrible. It's a disgrace for Naughty dog. I am very disappointed
5817) Poor writing and politics don't belong in video games. Druckman can hang his hat up on this one knowing he FUBAR'd this one.
5818) its like naughty dog gatherd their writing team and they all agreed to write the worst possible script for this game ..doesn't even deserve a 1
5819) you know one advantage that tlou 2 has is that it has good graphics other than that story, game mechanics, etc. it is bad. you build Joel in the first game to never trust a stranger then suddenly he trusted and give his name to a bunch of strangers like what is that **** storytelling.
5820) If I had a choice between this game or Knack 2... I’m picking Knack 2.. hopefully we don’t see pt 3.
5821) The Last of Us Part 2 did something that no other game has done.  It made me lower my expectations lower than they have ever been and I was still disappointed.  The plot is absolute garbage and that is no over exaggeration. A C grade revenge plot with utterly uninteresting characters.,,Abby is some angry chick who gets saved by Joel just for her to blow his leg off with a shotgun and then to club him to death with a golf club in the first 3 hours of gameplay. The rest of the game is a one-dimensional revenge plot that tried really hard to include some edge and depth but failed miserably.
5822) For a game centered around the story it doesn't lend itself to it very strongly instead relying on shock value which is just too lazy in the current year.,,The Good: graphics, mo-cap, voice acting, and sound,,The Bad: Tired linear game play (No improvement or attempt at evolving from its predecessor), AI worse than previous, clunky movement, and bad/sometimes forced story telling really leaves a lot to be desired.
5823) The weakest game of this half year. You know, there is such a practice, if you can’t do a good work, then shove hard violence, sex, very harsh words, unexpected and / or inappropriate plot twists into it and people will eat it. So now they do half the series. They take a very bad plot, which earlier they would have wandered to hell at the level of synopsis, add the above-described ingredients and advertise it everywhere. Well now this practice has come to video games.
5824) This about proves that critic reviews are not trustable anymore. This game did not need a sequel, the first story was well written and very enjoyable to playthrough. Letting you bond with the characters as you progressed through the game.,,This is not the same for this game, where you watch your favourite characters get tarnished and ruined. Like spitting in the face of the fans. Then you spend the 2nd half of the game just chasing down and getting revenge. Save $60 and don't get it
5825) This game did not give respect to the prequel. 2 hours into the game and we see our most loved character killed ruthlessly with a golf club. There are infinitely many better ways of killing off Joel but this game just chose to be bad. Joel also lost sense of guard which is not his usual attitude and this clearly highlights the weak depth of story-writing. The prequel attracts lots of people mainly with the story and the sequel should also do the same but the game just threw away hope for the fans. Also, the ending is just speechless. You got to play as someone who murdered Joel who was a father-figure like to Ellie brutally in front of her and when she  eventually met her, she just forgave everything and just let her go? Are you serious Naughty Dog? I am really disappointed.
5826) I want to go into this review and just say… What happened? How do you mess up a story this much to the point you don’t even understand what’s going on? The story is horrible, its starts off by killing Joel and you play as the killer for majority of the game while Ellie plots her revenge in the background. It’s literally the equivalent of in your favorite show if mid-way through the season if some random person comes in and kills off the main character and replaces him/her. So much stuff just randomly happens that doesn’t make sense or is ever explained. Like many times through the game you get into these big moments and you think something is going to happen for it to just randomly stop or be interrupted without explaining anything! Why did you guys stop fighting? Why are we here now? Where is this? It’s so choppy you don’t even get to process what is happening. They went from this great story telling to just figure it out yourself. Graphics, game play, voice acting are amazing but the story is what needs to carry the game and it just wasn’t there.
5827) The only thing that i regret in my life that I spent 60 dollars in this game save your money
5828) This is an abhorrent game that is just bad storytelling and old buggy gameplay. This sequel is a punishment/sermon not a game. This is a game that turns 180 from what the first game was. The concepts and ideas were promising but the execution and what makes a game is so badly done that it blankets over what was it supposed  to be. This a kick to the face to the fans of the supposed “heart”of the Last of Us. For me, Last of Us never had a sequel.
5829) game play was amazing, graphics are amazing, but the story is bad, and there is nothing left in a naughty dog game if the story is bad.
5830) No. There was nothing enjoyable about this. Go waste your money on another game.
5831) If you change the name of the game for "linear as hell" no one will ever notice any difference! Feels so predictable and repetitive... and let's not talk about the game plot... stick to video games and avoid political statements. This company went from excellence to pure trash in just 2 games!
5832) So this is where we are in video games, gratuitous sex scenes for no literal reason? This game has a flat story with no worth while characters or character development for that matter. This game just takes a steaming dump on the first games story and world building. Anyone who rates this torture porn garbage a 10 is SICK IN THR HEAD
5833) Im glad i havent bought this game, first game was overrated in my opinion but this, this is just a waste of 20 hours and 60 dollars. Also the only character i liked in the series was Joel, well thanks for killing him like that.
5834) This game is not worth you to cost $60 to buy,if you are a fan of TLOU .It really sucks
5835) I was looking forward to the The Last of Us 2, however I was left bitterly dissapointed with the direction the game took especially after the enjoyment i got out of playing the first one.
5836) Just one reason, wtf, Joel?died? and what are they **** doing? In my opinion, maybe Joel will be died before I play this party, but I just can't accept him being killed by a golf club. ****
5837) How can you kill joel when the reason everyone was so invested in the first game which was a masterpiece is because of the relationship between joel and ellie theres no logic to this the game itself is a massive flop sadly i cant believe people think its because of the lgbt no one is bothered about that.
5838) They have ruined what could have been a great franchise and legacy characters for the sole purpose of playing identity politics. Absolutely disgraceful. If you want a game that does that then make a new game and don't take already established and beloved characters and trash them.
5839) The story is terrible and the ending makes the whole story pointless. You go on a **** killing spree only to decide “rEvEnGe iS bAd”at the end and not kill the one person you were going for the whole time? That doesn’t even make sense. If revenge is bad why the hell did Abby get her revenge and end up getting a better ending than everyone else? The ending makes the whole story pointless.
5840) Let me break this down for you quickly: PANDERING has negatively infected gaming culture and the Last of Us 2 is the quintessential example of it,,Before we get into game-play, story, sound design and overall fun of the game; we need to have serious discussion on what pandering is and how it effects culture negatively. Pandering is defined as doing things for an individual or group in order to gain a favor and advantage for yourself.,,Every game, comic book, movie or music may contain some form of pandering, and in most cases it isn't a big deal. In modern culture, however, we have reached a point where pandering has become an issue, particularly when a medium appeals to a certain demographic without making any effort to understand the people they're supposedly representing.,,It often feels like an afterthought, something thrown in to reap the benefits of including that group (typically a minority) without doing any actual work.  Typically it's lazy representation at best, and at worst it can be actively harmful to the demographic being (mis)represented.,,The Last of Us 2 is the latter.,,I am a huge fan of the first game; but not in terms of the its game-play, graphics and sound design. The game's story, specifically its masterful pacing and development of the two main protagonists Ellie and Joel, is what draws players in (myself included) and captivates them throughout the entire journey. The writers knew what these two characters represent: Joel is a damaged, old and experienced man that has reluctantly partnered with an energetic, young and naive Ellie in order to  potentially save humanity from a deadly virus. The game has a beautiful thematic narrative on society and human-beings; Ellie represents humanity's hope for the future (the literal cure for the virus), and thus needs to be protected by the battle-hardened adults, which is where Joel steps in (both story-wise and in game-play). Both characters grow and start depend on each other, and the game ends with an ambiguous question of whether this father/daughter relationship has either doomed or saved humanity.,,The Last of Us 2 has this beautiful theme and relationship dynamic completely thrown out of the window in order for the writers to pander Ellie as a strong female LGBT lead. All the charm and charisma she had in the first game is completely gone as Ellie has been reduced to being part of a, as writer Neil Druckmann puts it.... "diverse cast of strong female characters".,,Being female and gay does not make Ellie a strong character.,,Being deadly and proficient in killing does not make Ellie a strong character.,,Having a tortured past and being an emotionally distant does not make Ellie a strong character.,,In fact, being the potential cure to save humanity, also did not make Ellie a strong character either. She became a strong lead because of how her actions dynamically affected those around her, specifically Joel and his group. In this bleak future, Ellie is the Last bit of humanity (of Us, if you will) in a literal sense but also in an emotionally resonant way for all of us.,,In an effort to pander to certain demographics, the story takes a complete thematic nose-dive to have so-called representation of minorities surviving in an apocalyptic wasteland. Ellie, our future for humanity, is now comically emotional for wanting vengeance to the point of absurdity for the death of a close friend. None of her witty lines, or virus-curing antiques is needed here. All the Last of Us 2 seems to concern itself with, is how violence is violent for violent characters because a violent world needs violent people to justify the violence.,,And who better to justify this game's theme than humanity's last hope for the future... who's a lesbian.,,Pandering with no thought of the narrative pedigree that the first game had, has a sure way of alienating audiences and it does not make for a great gaming experience; especially when the first-game to this day is a herald for refined video game story-telling.,,In my humble opinion, Naughty Dog Studio have never been the creators of original game-play and stories, however, they have always been prime examples of expertly "refined" experiences. Uncharted/Crash Bandicoot and even the Last of Us were not pioneer games; but they were amazingly refined platformer/survival games to the point that it gave the illusion that they were.,,The graphics and sound design of the Last of Us 2 is worth praise as enemies converse realistically and move dynamically through the environment, a touch of the naughty dog refinement that is muddied unfortunately by the bog-standard run-of-the-mill 3rd-person action game-play.,,However the sound, game-play and the game's overall fun factor is connected to the story Naughty Dog has written, thus it suffers immensely for it. 1/10
5841) What happens when you remove a character dynamic from a game that already has mediocre action and story? You get TloU part 2. Gone are the interactions between the 2 leads, gone is the moral greyness, and in their place we have virtue signalling, the game director writing the actors into a fully mocapped sex scene with his self-insert character. Do yourself a favour and don't waste money on this game, buy something that's actually good, like Witcher 3. At least it had actual strong female leads without patronising its fanbase.,EDIT:at least it looks good
5842) This game just broke my heart into pieces for real..,my biggest regret 2020
5843) To bs honest, everything that made TLOU fun was just thrown to the trash. The naughty dog you knew that made the first game is just gone. 20 hrs of story that in the end you'll wonder why you even bought the game. 60£ went to the trash
5844) A spit in the face of the original. Nonsensical narrative and a total disregard for beloved characters, how did this make it to print?
5845) Please hear me out. I really, really wanted to like this game. I am a huge fan of the original, and when I saw the announcement for Part II, I was beyond excited. Despite exceptional gameplay, sound, visuals, and acting, this game simply doesn’t deliver in terms of story or meaningful character development. I simply don’t understand what went wrong here in the development studio. It’s bizarre, and as a diehard fan of the first game, this is beyond frustrating and disappointing. Also, this has nothing to do with the game being “SJW” or “agenda-pushing” (I’m a part of the LGBT community myself). I just simply feel like the story, in terms of writing and character development, is laughably bad for a game of this caliber, especially when compared to the brilliant first entry in the series. Please save your money and save yourself from the major disappointment that I experienced while playing this game. While I am rating this game a zero, it’s not because I think this game has no redeeming qualities whatsoever. It’s to simply point out the hypocrisy of many influenced game journalists, as well as blind fans, when they rate the game a ten. Thank you for reading.
5846) It takes a bad game to get a low score. It takes a downright insulting one to get a zero. Everything about this game's plot is either nonsense or spits on everything the original game stood for. I am honestly enfuriated that so many people excited for this game are going to be let down by a game that is essentially someone's hate boner for the original.,,I don't even care about the SJW parts. I care about how dirty they did all these characters, making decisions so unbelievably stupid that it makes you wonder if they're just new characters pretending to be the old ones. I really don't know what happened here.,,This is like if Sonic Team made a game where sonic is considered the bad guy for all the human machines he destroys. A ludicrous idea that is fan-fiction at best.
5847) In the graphic aspect, gameplay, and mechanics, it is great, but once you finish it the feeling inside you will not be great, you seek vengeance for very long, Ellie took a lot of lifes during that path, and once she has the killer of Joel in front of her, she decides to let Abby live, after all of that? That is a slap in the face to the players.
5848) Good gameplay Bad story,Worst ending I’ve seen,Focuses on sjw stuff more than actual players
5849) Awful story, lazy writing, completely destroys everything the first game built. Characters make atrocious decisions, unnecessary gore. Ending leaves much to be desired.
5850) Such a huge disappointment after years of waiting.,Don't buy this game if you care about the characters or anything the previous game set up.
5851) Complete utter fecal matter. Story was literal garbage and the developers made sure to piss off all the fans. DO NOT BUY.
5852) Gameplay-wise, this game is amazing. Graphics-wise, this game is amazing. The world is beautiful and you can tell the devs put a lot of time into making it a better game than the first. I can agree that in most cases this game should deserve a very high rating. Unfortunately, the developers have decided that anyone who was invested in the first game and everything that took place during it can just go kill themselves. After everything that happened in the first game and the player having to come to terms with the decision Joel made at the end of the game, killing him off right at the start of this game because "his decision was wrong" is a massive kick in the balls to anyone who grew attached to both Joel and Ellie. It's like the devs are saying "you liked the story we told in the first game, so get **** you weren't supposed to like it." Even after seeing all the leaks, I wanted to give this game a chance assuming that Joel's death would happen towards the middle or at least a third into the game and be a turning point for the story. Unfortunately, it happens within the first two hours. This completely killed any enjoyment I had had in this game and ruined my motivation to keep on playing it, regardless of the fact that everything else in this game is absolutely award winning.
5853) You can't customise the golf club, very disappointed, better get yourself a Fallout 76, you can put spikes on your golf club here, or blades, or make it heavier
5854) Neil Druckmann completely ruined this series. Should've kept the original writers instead of firing 75% of the studio after the story was almost completely finished and replacing it with his own.
5855) Awful story, cringe characters. Such a shame compared to the previous games...
5856) If only psn had a refund option like steam. I haven't finished the game and I don't want to. This is a story driven game and the story is trash. Soooo what's the point in continuing? Garbage
5857) The plot of the game is terrible and totally unacceptable. A mandatory ending that doesn't give the player a choice.
5858) This game has legit the worst writing I have ever seen in a gaming industry and Abby is one of the worst if not the worst character ever.,,Why the hell would you ever force players to play as her/him? I dont give a damn about her/his story.,,The ending of this game does not make any sense.,,Plot armors + holes everywhere
5859) Leaks are true, to the T, the games narrative is just as bad as we were warned, save your money
5860) Totally disappointed. The gameplay was ok but the story was a big failure.,I love the I.
5861) Story is literally trash. Plot holes and the characters have no link with the first game, they are completely different.
5862) Successfully murdered the everything The Last of Us 1 stood for me.,,This heavily story driven game isn't like it has meh story or something, it's just very bad writing and I've been asking myself the question "just why?",,then I realized they had other priorities to show and agendas to push.
5863) I loved the first one, but what they did with this one is utterly pathetic. What they did with my man Joel was despicable. The story was filled with clichés and an extraordinary attempt to pass a political agenda. Politics shouldn't be part of any game. It was all over the place and ruined the characters we loved. The threemance was obnoxiously bad, Abby was terrible and the zombies were almost nonexistent.,The ambience and music were subpar, especially compared to the previous game and the gameplay was extremely boring. The graphics looks like Switch graphics, which is weird for a naughty dog game.  In addition, the length of the game is unfulfilling. I regret buying this and I advice every one to not waste their money on this.
5864) Joel would NEVER trust strangers and walk in to a trap like that... What kind of **** writing is this?
5865) It’s a SJW game, terrible story in the process that makes this game unbearable to even finish. What a waste of time and money.
5866) well, this game is just political stuff to pleasure some social justice warriors, absolute trash
5867) the most overrated game of all time , **** gameplay , boring story , bad characters,don't ever try to buy this game !
5868) It's funny that they were putting so much effort to be political correct and don't really care if the whole thing makes sense or not
5869) Usually I abstain from posting negative reviews.. but after spending 18 hours awake just to realize I played essentially a fan-fiction with ultra violence gore on is an absolute waste of $60. The game-play COULD be forgiven but the plot is such a divergence from the original, you can't even call it The Last Of Us.
5870) game play was amazing, graphics are amazing, but the story is bad, and there is nothing left in a naughty dog game if the story is bad.
5871) This is an absolute abomination. They butchered the story and it is clear character assassination, Joel is nothing like he was in the first game, makes a very stupid and out of character mistake that real Joel would never do. They went for shock value... so many disgusting scenes. The graphics are downgraded compared what they originally showed and the gameplay is still mediocre, this product has nothing to offer.
5872) Ruined franchise by an almost unbelievable bad story. So much stuff to discuss in a post apocalyptic world and Naughty Dog chooses to focus on an empty and stupid vengeance, sexuality and gender. For the sake of this agenda, it even killed a very loved character in a  very hateful way. After finishing the game, I wish I haven't played it to preserve just TLOU1 in my memory.
5873) What is this garbage. There is no game in there. Just a number of different agendas they tried their best to show.
5874) Disaster dont waste your money. Keep it. Even worse, this game is not fun at all.
5875) Starting parts are mostly BORED!!,Relation between Dina and Elie is totally teenage  row and uninspired.,Game is really repetitive in conflict parts.,There is no differemce between cheap hollywood scenerios.,Naughty Dog have to be more respectful to customers.,We have to balance againts inflated rates.,The game chance characters without focusing any character than as result you can nit connect with characters.
5876) Pathetic game. Bad storyline killing one of the most favourable characters in a stupid way and playing as the killer for half the game.
5877) It's an unoriginal and predictable story. The writing is not good either. Disappointed
5878) I was very disappointed, the story is terrible and they do not give the development to the characters as it should be, and the fact of playing with the most hated character in the middle of the game and that in the end what you expected so much does not happen seems horrible to me I am going to have a bad taste in my mouth I do not recommend them,Estaba muy decepcionado, la historia es terrible y no dan el desarrollo a los personajes como debería ser, y el hecho de jugar con el personaje más odiado en el medio del juego y que al final lo que esperabas tanto no sucede me parece horrible voy a tener mal sabor de boca no los recomiendo
5879) The ending is a giant spit in the face towards everyone who played the first game and liked the characters.
5880) Naughty Dog ruins the series and I am so disappointed for how they handle this!
5881) this game destroyed all of my good memory of firs game this game has great visual but.........but story is sucks boring oh my god ..... i expect more from naughty dog
5882) The game doesn't give option for revenge at the end. All the way you come just for the linear ending. And after 5-6 hours story progress gets very boring.
5883) One of the most horrendous examples of poor writing, SJW stuff is besides the point, even without it the story is purely nonsensical with gameplay that feels a decade old. Don't bother wasting your money on this disaster.
5884) This game has the worst pilot ever, if you like characters from the first part, do NOT buy this game, save your hard earned $60 for something decent.
5885) When I'm watching the last episode of game of thrones I was having a mental breakdown like the hell break lose I was sad and angry at the same time I was asking my self What happened to my beloved complex multi layer characters what happened to deep meaningful surprising rational storyline I can't believe what I have witnessed  with my eyes and This horrible feeling strike me today my beloved video game the characters that I loved so much over the years act so irrational the plot is antiqued and the gameplay stretched to 25 hour's and other characters is so tedious and boring as if they all end up dead u wouldn't care less The whole game gather around go from point a to point b And do it all over again Kill or bypass enemies and go to another location over and over again For Animations and visuals is top notch one the best in the industry but we don't play last of us for gameplay or geraphics we play it because we so attached to character and it's cruel world and beautiful well thought written story and deep humen relationships but the story here is horrendous Ellie keep making so many irrational decisions that makes my head hurts  she is so unbelievable selfish it feels like I'm watching game of thrones mother of dragon last season all over again Whole thing is so cringy and super clishe revenge story.  last of us 1 storyline was unique you see the beauty and ugliness in this world and character's interaction and decisions all makes sense but here in last of us 2 nothing makes sense and storyline are full of Holes and leave my questions in the air.,conclusion: I'm not bios and I'm not following any company politics like many big reviewers are . the hype will not affect my judgment. for me last of us 1 is the best game I've ever played in my life so,Because of previous game ((last of us and left behind)) last of us 2 is a huge game and huge drawback to the series and this game should not exist.
5886) I was moved by TLOU and incredibly diapointed in its sequal.  The story and messaging is terrible!
5887) This whole game is a frickin joke. It splits at the first part, and destroys everything that was great about it. Political correctness have destroyed tlou.
5888) I don't know who this game was designed for but it is certainly not for fans of TLOU.
5889) The story is just wrong, the characters wouldn't do what they do. They could do this type of story if it didn't have characters with already established personalities, from the first game, that wouldn't do these things.
5890) While the gameplay is nice and the developer made fantastic job in graphical and audio departments. The story is a giant rock that drags this game on a bottom of the sea. The uninteresting and unappealing character of Dina. What in the world happened to Elli for god’s sake? And Abby. No words for “it”. Senator Abbystrong is just there and while the memes are funny, in the game it’s just nightmare. Don’t buy it. DON’T WASTE YOUR MONEY. I wish I could return mine.
5891) Well I started to play the game and i started to enjoy it. The character development was fantastic and the plot was very intriguing. However the Last of us 2 was god awful as the lack of Ben Banks was disgusting and it made the game unplayable.
5892) Controls seem to lag although that might be because I'm playing in 4k It's not true to the original and there's large plot holes and the graphics are downgraded from the trailers they might as well have just made a different game since most characters look so different than the first part,.
5893) Good graphics, but bad history and outdated gameplay. The game becomes to much political, and if you don't agree with creator's political ideologies, play this game is almost a torture.
5894) This is a disgusting game that spoils the memories of the beautiful first part with its feminist and inclinations. Awful gameplay, bad graphics and nasty plot. All this on ps4. How could a great company fall so low?
5895) Such a huge disappointment after years of waiting.,Don't buy this game if you care about the characters or anything the previous game set up.,This game is not bad because of SJWs!!!
5896) Garbage game. Typical revenge plot that is executed horribly. It’s also filled with woke nonsense. Do yourself a favor and save your money for Ghosts of Tsushima.
5897) Graphics are top notch, but what we are here for is the STORY, and let me tell you, it sucks. If you enjoyed the first game for its fantastic storytelling and wonderfully writen characters, STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME.
5898) This is not a game that we know,Silly story Repeative gameplay High budget,7 years of developments,That ends like trash.. nothing is worth to play this game
5899) Golf simulator What Jo did in TLOU didnt happend in TLOU2,WHAT THE HECK ND,The only thing is that the graphics are good and thats it Worse story telling I have ever seen
5900) If you want understand new character? You should make grinded meat pie. I can understand why joel is die, but you should be show respect who saves abby's life. She does not mention about it who takes risk to save unknown person. Even he is enemy. Kill with one bullets his head. Then we can understand abby's situation or something. But naughtydog is using anger for joel's terrible death. So player can consentrate playibg revenge for joel's death. It is very simple and easy way to concentrate player's attention. But it's too simple so it can not contain various meaning or aspect of related characters. So concentrated with ellie, it is distinguish thing play who killed joel and make him grinded meat pie. So if you play This game, game will sucked you mind and experience what's the failure of story telling
5901) An insult to everything that made the first game so great. 25 hours of revenge nonsense with no payoff and every character is unlikable. The story is so pathetic and meaningless you won't care who lives or dies by the end.
5902) This game has nothing to do with its predecessor. The scenario is horrible, politically oriented and compete nonsense. Where are the infected? The gameplay is average and the graphics have not much improved since episode one. I don't recommend it, as a fan of the first episode, I was deeply disappointed.
5903) The Metascore reviewers were only allowed to play a portion of the game and could not talk about story. This makes the reviews controlled just to get sales and Naughty Dog knows what they did. Not going to go into detail but the story is a travesty. I don’t mean to compare it to fanfiction, because it’s an insult to fanfics everywhere, but the overall story and direction  is the worst they could pull on their fans.
5904) Very bad story, charecters, dated gameplay lotta poinless shock value......
5905) the game is garbage and has the worst story ever,it was made to support their agendas ! no one should buy this ****
5906) I really loved part1 but this game is quite different the story doesn’t make sense . First we thought that eilly is gonna take revenge for Joel but she didn’t she just destroyed herself
5907) for Joel and **** golf,I can't imagine how Naughty Dog can do those things , They look like have no mercy with Joel and Ellie and write a terrible story as we all know now,I wonder I never know anything about TLOU2，This story just ended 7 years ago
5908) Playing Warcraft 3 reforged brought me more joy than this piece of garbage.
5909) This is what happens when you make a story driven game & screw up the story. Gameplay is the generic third person gameplay from PS3 era which feels so outdated comparing to innovations of games like Witcher 3. However you can ignore that if the story was amazing. Story feels like a boring revenge plot which goes nowhere. It’s just there to shock you like GOT season 8. Some people might not agree giving 0/10 to a functional AAA game.However if the game gives you no entertainment & makes you angry for spending money on a thing you absolutely despise, there is no other score.
5910) This was a let down. This is absolutely not worth the price. The only good this game has to offer is the scenery and that's about it. The first one wasnt that bad either. When you wanna make a game woke maybe start it on a newer franchise. Dont ruin one that was currently doing well.,Get woke go broke.
5911) The story was so anticlimactic for an apocalyptic world. Naughty Dog putting SJW agenda.
5912) Makes me want to pretend there's no part II. Damn, what have you done ND. Anyone who loved the first game, don't buy this game. Please don't.
5913) This story is a shieit don't waste your money on it even the graphic ana the gameplay not that good
5914) The masterpiece of game engineering, with the worst piece of **** game story. If you gonna play this game, do not play the part I. If you already played the part I, do not play this game.,,The political correctness things did nothing for this score, but the story is just bad as hell.,,This game made same mistake as "Spec Ops: the Line".... forces the players to do wrong thing without any other choice, blames players for doing that, makes player to confuse why have they done such hard works for. Furthermore, this game made this error with the two main characters of the previous title, Joel and Ellie. This makes the fans of previous title to feel their loved characters being treated very disrespectfully.
5915) I really wanted to give this game higher score at least for visuals but I’m not gonna , this game and it’s characters were ruined solely because of Neil druckman’s ego .. I absolutely hated how he treated the characters.. more than that , the choices the protagonist makes doesn’t make any sense , hell even choices that Joel makes didn’t make any sense .. the progression of the story didn’t feel natural at all and felt forced specially the ending
5916) I hope this a bad joke. This game is pathetic. The fact that this story made it to production is insane.
5917) You used political correctness to manipulate reviewers. Metacritic put this game on the same level with the gods and goddesses of the gaming history like "Skyrim, Mario Odyssey, Breath of The Wild etc.". You made people waste their money with this reviews where people potentially don't even enjot the game after the second hour because they were such a fan of the first one. That was the first mistake.,,You Neil, didn't know jack **** about Joel and depicted him as a shy dadlike character who would'a save a random stranger/follow her and just announce himself in a place full of strangers. I cannot compare this story choice to GOT Season 8 or Star Wars Last Jedi **** show BECAUSE they have a lot of hours of content so maybe that can be justifiable as directors losing consistency over a long shot. This is the second game of the franchise. Who do you think you are to change pace of the story in such if this is 10th season of some Walking Dead like show? This is the second mistake.,,Finally you pushed a political agenda in your game for every inch of an hour. People just want to play their game. They do  not want to relate to poorly written characters who just happens to not be cis gender. They just want to play their game because they like the series so much. You could have written literally anything else and it would be worth our while. and you treat your devs who sweat 12 hours a day like robots that third and fourth mistake. I was handed 100 cards full of mistake I just don't have patients to go on.
5918) The last of us 2 is a massive step down from the brilliant first game in the series it may have incredible graphics and scenery but a mediocre story with terrible dialogue and boring characters make this a game not worth wasting 20 hours on.
5919) This game is very old gameplay mechanics, seems to play to the first assassin's creed is not a 2020's game.,,Ugly animation, ugly fight combat, boring stealth section crafting is the same of the first game ..........
5920) The graphics are amazing, the gameplay also really good,but the story, god, its so bad, it's awful in every way possible, forced and dumn plot. Why would you ruin a good history just to be "good" and acepted by a comunity.
5921) The Last of Us Part II lacks every single aspect of the first game that made it great. It’s characters, their decisions and therefore the overall story feels extremely forced. The Last of Us Part II is nothing but an insult to the original game itself and its fans.
5922) The last of Us 2 is a great game in terms of visuals and graphics and while the game does look good the story, gameplay, and characters are brushed off so easily. Everything you know about the first game is virtually erased. The combat system hasn’t changed or been redefined in anyway. The characters feels off or don’t have any relatable qualities. It’s a revenge story but somehow feels hollow and bleak. The SJW pandering is back and feels extremely out of place that’s supposed to be about survival in a post apocalyptic world. I’m deeply disappointed that ND had to go with an agenda based game rather then write a good story and really flesh out their characters. Feels like a regressive step backwards and undos what we felt about the characters in the past.
5923) The reason for this low score is not only due to the game doing nothing special, being underwhelming and generally uninteresting. The game does everything it can to ruin your favorite character from the last game and put you in an angered, frustrated frame of mind. I barely played through it. The story made it feel even more like a chore. Frustrating, agenda filled story,lack of an improvement in gameplay, and awfully poor writing.
5924) I saw the leaks and thank god it saved me a 60$ Thanks naughty dog for this **** game
5925) If you didn't realize that this franchise was for game journalists and not you with the first installment then I don't know what to say. You had to learn sometime I guess. I have known TLoU was boring and preachy for about 7 years now, how about you?
5926) This game is a scam. Wow! Talk about lying about Joel being in the game. They destroyed him and his character in the worst way possible. The game is only 20 hours long and no one wins in the story. There is no end game. Everyone loses. Don't believe these credit reviews. They were bought. This game has no multiplayer either. It's so depressing how they slapped the fan base and destroyed the TLOU name.
5927) Completely trash game, horrible story and gameplay. Ruined the whole series
5928) Neil Druckmann literally ruined The last of us. Horrible writing, literally killed the game.,I don't recommend buying this game, the only "good thing" are the graphics, nothing else.
5929) Created an account just to review this masterpiece.,If you already played tlou 1 and is attracted by its story, character... DO NOT BUY THIS GAME.,If you never played tlou 1 before, but cares about a good story... This game is also not a game for you.,Only buy this game if you do not care about story and aims for pure, 100% game-play. I suggest you look away, wear a blindfold or something to avoid direct contact towards the cut scenes though, or hey, an even better idea - just pick another game.
5930) The Last of Us: Part II is an undoubtedly story-based game. So my review will be focused almost entirely on the story. The gameplay is incredibly similar to the first with added movement options and different enemy types.,,Instead of following in the steps of its predecessor, the sequel throws away much of its character-development, atmosphere, and world-building for the sake of adding a playable antagonist. Despite early news promising the development of Ellie and Joel's bond, the latter is killed in the prologue of the game by said antagonist. Instead of naturally becoming a revenge story, the writers try their hardest to make the player emphasize with Abby - something incredibly difficult to accomplish if the player developed a connection to the protagonists from the first game. Characters close to Ellie die or abandon her unceremoniously throughout the course of the game in scenes that seem more reliant on shock value than good writing. Those who die are always taken out by Abby, and you'll occasionally play as her for these scenes. At the ending, Ellie saves Abby's life before challenging her to one last fight. Despite having two of her fingers bitten off in the struggle, Ellie gets the upper hand and is all set to drown the woman who has taken everything from her. With a brief vision of Joel flashing through her mind, she makes a disappointing decision to let go of Abby and allow her to get away. At the end of the day, Ellie is left with nothing. The player has gained nothing.,,The central issue that pervades the entire story is characters acting unlike themselves. Tommy and Joel give their names and home location to an armed group they just met. Jesse, who has been shown to have a level head, rushed through a closed door into a room that could have had any amount of hostiles. He was, of course, immediately shot in the head and killed. Ellie murdered possibly hundreds in her quest to kill Abby, and not only untied her, but she also challenged her to some strange form of honorable combat before letting Abby go free. It is not good writing. It's characters acting completely unpredictable just for something terrible to happen. It's like they can't create shock value without making someone act like an idiot.,,Lastly, there is no joy in The Last of Us: Part II. Not if you came into it with the previous characters in your heart. Every beloved character is dragged through the dirt constantly with no moments of reprieve. It's one miserable scene after the other. The only "uplifting" moments tend to happen when the player is controlling Abby. At the end of the day, there is no satisfaction for the player. None for Ellie. None for Joel, Tommy, Jesse, or Dina. You don't get your adventure with Ellie and Joel. You don't get your revenge. You don't get a glimpse of the hope for a better future that was present in the first game. It's devoid of hope. The only thing you get at the end of the day is a message that revenge is bad, but it falls flat once you realize that the only person who got their vengeance is the one that came out on top.,,The only people who legitimately enjoyed playing The Last of Us 2, for it's story, are people whose ONLY personality trait is either their gender, sexual orientation, or skin colour.
5931) this game is a boring sequel and history is a **** this installment must be taken out of the canon, they ruined the first
5932) The story is pointless and destroys all the build up from the 1st game. How can this game get 9.5 from the critics is beyond me! Don't buy it until is on sale!!!
5933) I dont mind Ellie being Gay or someting. really. But they destroyed the whole Story for Nothing. The whole Story is a Trainwreck. See Skillups Review on Youtube.
5934) This is a walking simulator ,the story sucks Abbie friend's deaths are More powerful than Joel's death,when you finish the story you will not be satisfied,the game is more liniar than a runner,and oh god lord and savior that sex scene ,oh God blind me.Joel dies in the first hours.Allie is now unlikable , Abby looks like Frank West with a girl's wig,and she **** lives by the end,.
5935) This is an abomination in compare to the first game and a lame attempt of Neil Drunckman to force his agenda!No justice is given to joels death and you play the half game as that guy abby??!?!on top of that you dont kill abby in the end!!!Naughty dog is done after that.
5936) I have never been this depressed over a video game. The story has been completely butchered. If you enjoyed the story of the original Last of Us, then there is absolutely no way you will enjoy part 2. A few hours into the game comes a point in the story where the game will leave you in absolute disbelief. From this point on I couldn't play any further. I'm getting a refund if I can.
5937) Take this linear gameplay and make a Netflix exclusive out of it. I still can't believe I avoided spoilers for this awful story.
5938) Disappointing. The game is boring, the pace of the game is not working for me. The SWJ here is extremely annoying.
5939) Bad writing. Graphics are amazing, the music and the gameplay.,But the story, the literally killed beloved characters for the sake of killing, Joel's ending is so bad I wanted to end the game at that moment, the game feels so empty and sad, it feels like nobody, non the writers or the director was able to go over that moment.,And Abby, the most forgettable character of all time, not because lgtb stuff, it felt very cute when Ellie kissed the first time in the DLC, it's because how she is introduced, I mean Joel saved her, and then they tried to survive together, then seeing how it ends? man...,I loved TLOU, it's my favorite game period, but this, this is bad.
5940) Played the first few hours with my brother then refunded the game at my local store. Glad I did cause the rest of the game is trash
5941) I received a great disappointment.,Being a long-awaited and praised video game ....,Its gameplay receives improvements, the violence is well represented, the artistic section is impeccable, but highlighting the negative, a very predictable television series story, cartoon characters, it almost seems like a cheap series with many cinematics, it fails in the aspects that made good the first installment, despite being a video game with an impeccable technical section and worthy of praise. The whole work went to waste because of the aspects that I think make a "good" video game. I also emphasize that this note deserves it for trying to sell a commercial garbage as something 10/10. I hope that Naugthy Dog feels ashamed. .,"It was supposed to be the best on Ps4 but it turned out to be a forgettable and disappointing bitter taste in my mouth there is only one The last of us."
5942) Its the must pathetic plot/writing I’ve ever seen.,Neil by his “NARRATIVE” simply ruined our memories and beloved characters from the original The Last of Us.,RIP Naughty Dog......
5943) A disservice to the whole gaming community. As a story-centered game the story is extremely important, and being as bad as it is the wight on the score is massive. Technically it's an "OK" game (gameplay, graphics, sound) but the story is hot garbage.
5944) The story makes you want to jump through your screen and strangle every characher in the game as well as the writer's who wrote them
5945) MGS 4 has more gameplay. As a movie is really bad, as a game you barely play it.
5946) When I'm watching the last episode of game of thrones I was having a mental breakdown like the hell break lose I was sad and angry at the same time,I was asking my self What happened to my beloved complex multi layer characters what happened to deep meaningful surprising rational storyline I can't believe what I have witnessed  with my eyes and,This horrible feeling strike me today my beloved video game the characters that I loved so much over years act so irrational and the gameplay stretched to 25 hour's and other characters is boraring and if they all end up dead u wouldn't care less,The whole game gather around go from point a to point b,And do it all over again,Kill or bypass enemies and go to another place over and over again,Animations and technicality and visuals is top notch but we don't play last of us for gameplay or geraphics we play it because we so attached to character and it's cruel world and beautiful written story and deep humens  relationships but the story here is horrendous Eli make so many irrational decisions that makes my head hurts  she is so unbelievable selfish it feels like I'm watching game of thrones mother of dragon last season all over again,Whole thing is so cringy and super clishe revenge story.  last of us 1 storyline was unique u see the beauty and ugliness in this world and character's interaction and decisions all makes sense but here in last of us 2 nothing makes sense and storyline are full of Holes.,conclusion: I'm not bios and I'm not following any company politics like many big reviewers and the hype will not affect my reviews. for me last of us 1 is the best game I've ever played in my life so,Because of previous game ((last of us and few of us )) last of us 2 is a huge drawback to the series and this game should not exist.
5947) I hate golf after this game, and the story is just bad, and they killed my favorite character
5948) I don't want to think of any memorable scenes. I just want to live without knowing the existence of this game.
5949) This game was better when was unreleased being just a meme, now it's out I can see it's very Cringy
5950) Overrated and overhyped game.,This game is a living statement that money doesn’t solve all problems. Graphics? Great.truly bimpressive. story? Trash. Character development? Trash. Character Relationship development? Trash. Gameplay? Straight out of 2013.,And honestly.. all these game critics who gave this game 10/10, are shooting themselves in the foot Collapse
5951) the story is everything in this game.  I don't like the story. There are things I don't want in the game.
5952) Pros:,- Environments, Landscapes, Sceneey all next gen,- Beautiful semi-Openworld,- More open options to move in different areas,- Interesting difficulty setting - Beautiful graphics Cons:,- Unimproved gameplay,- Plotholes EVERYWHERE,- Excessively and unnecessarily long.,- Poor AI,- Poorly-written characters,- Complete disrespect to the last game,- Extremely bleak story,- Horrible deconstruction of Elle,- False advertising - Disgustingly bad scenes,Don't play it. save $60 for other games.
5953) The story is trash. The original was an excellent game, save your money and replay it. I am sorry to anyone who spent money on this garbage. This is honestly the worst video game ever made
5954) Naughty dog has dissapointed me,-uninteresting plot,-meh gameplay,-graphics is good though,compared to the 1st game this is an absolute trash, shouldnt have bought this
5955) horrible story almost no gameplay its like a walking simulator with an encounter every couple of hours and the fact that they do what they do in such a humiliating way disgusts me this a disgrace to such an amazing franchise
5956) they ruined the characters it also looks more like a movie instead of an actual game
5957) Stop politicizing games! Your obsession with pleasing 2% of the population. If your afraid of leaks ruining your game because it will turn off your fan base make a better game! I’m sick of having left wing, liberal ideologies forced down my throat! I will boycott every future release you publish!
5958) Lackluster failed level design/ terrible story/ gameplay mechanics with no actual level design,good graphics don't make a game ! all you do is run kill a wave of enemies unlock next cutscene repeat,that's not how u make a ps4 game ! on ps3 it was okay since it was the beginning of 3rd person shooters ... we are at the end of the generation after re2 remake Witcher 3 ... why didn't take notes ? and the puzzles are trash ! the story is garbage !,that's what you get for overrating the first part ! that was already average gameplay wise but it was a 8/10 for me,Stop pushing agendas and stop making terrible stories !  this game SUCKS !!! they had 6years and still managed to make a terrible story lol
5959) The story is unfaithful the characters that meant a whole lot to the player get treated like trash and killed off horribly just to push an agenda for a female trans character the ending tarnished this franchise the gameplay is same old first act is a walking simulator graphics are amazing but you can clearly tell they were forcing an agenda this is the last jedi for video games these companies need to stop and start listening to there consumers this isnt right at all and this is the final straw
5960) It's a shame that the industry has come to a point where political and ideological messages are the main driving force creative projects. As a fan of the original Last of Us I feel the same as many others that feel robbed.  There may as well have never been an original with the way the world and its characters were treated.
5961) This game is an absolute huge steaming pile of garbage. There are too many cutscenes and boring walking sections in this game. This isn't even a game, this is a movie. The story is by far the worst story I ever seen in a videogame. There are too many plot holes and it is poorly written. The dialogue is extremely cringeworthy. The characters are bland and cringeworthy as well.,,The gameplay is so boring and repetitive. The developers were too cheap and lazy to overhaul the gameplay, despite multiple delays. The level design is a joke. The physics are trash and the gore is exaggerated, which breaks immersion. Speaking of immersion, the AI is incredibly stupid in this game. There are very little puzzles and all of them are lazily designed. The running animations are laughable.,,The pacing is so horrendous in this game, it almost put me to sleep out of boredom. The developer who directed this movie game even admitted that they don't use the word "fun". If their goal was to not make the game fun, then they nailed it. It's pathetic that game developers don't even want games to be fun anymore. If I'm not mistaken, games are suppose to be fun. That is the reason why I even play videogames in the first place. There is so much SJW influence in this game.,,There is no multiplayer at all. So once you beat the story, there is not a reason to touch this game again. It will go back to the shelf and collect dust. Charging $60 for a game with no replay value is a cashgrab. The greedy developers are basically charging $60 for a movie ticket. They promised there would be multiplayer and decided to cut it out. The developers were too greedy and lazy to develop multiplayer. The only good thing in this game is graphics, but the graphics sacrificed the gameplay mechanics. I don't recommend this worthless game at all.
5962) What can I say? Massive disappointment, the characters are **** and empty shells of their former game title, the gameplay is mediocre sometimes fun but barely, introduces a whole new story nobody cares or cared about ever. The only redeeming quality of this game is how good it looks. Also the fact that this isn't even Joel or Ellie's story's really anymore is full on bs, don't waste your money on this please.
5963) Bad gameplay, Very bad graphics for a Triple A game released in 2020, don't waste your money on this game.
5964) You took one of the best game series out there, and completely destroyed it, im speechless, the game couldve gone too far, but you decided to bury it, for what? It is devastating to witness the gaming world being filled with today's real world problems, It not a game that is meant to be enjoyed anymore, It has a message, did we ask for that? I suppose not.,The game was leaked way before launch, you have seen people raging over the leaks, and yet still you decided to launch it without even considering delaying it and changing what couldve been changed. This was a totally failed attempt to copy Red Dead series (with killing the protagonists),It is indeed heartbreaking for me to see Naughty dog murdering this game, Unexpected from them i must say, but here we are.,I'am giving this 0 out of 10 because TLOU was one of my top 5 games ever played and i'am very disappointed to where it has come. I will not tell you to not buy, because everybody sees this in their own perspective, But i'm definitely not playing this game, even if it was free.
5965) The game has amazing graphics but only mediocre gameplay. The prequel quite literally was carried by the story but this time the story is lackluster.
5966) The characters are completely different and none of them are likeable. Graphics are solid but that's all this game has. Story is uninteresting and empty. Only play this if you didnt have to pay for it.
5967) Ty for 60$.This game is very big dissapointment.What were they thinking anyway?
5968) I really wanted to believe this game was good but after i saw the leaks were true and that joel is killed like a dog, all the characters from the previous games were totally killed or destroyed just in order to amp up some new poorly written character like abby. And you dont even have the chance to get your revenge on joel because the ending is a cliche one where (revenge is not worthy) and basically all of the previous characters lives were destroyed.
5969) Absolutely horrible, of course sites like IGN would rate it a 10/10 the guy that reviewed literally looks like a liberal. Hopefully game developers in the future will learn not to to put this leftist political movement in games.
5970) This isn't entertainment so much as it is propaganda. The developer leveraged the goodwill generated by the first game to push a woke political agenda, packaged within a trite message about violence which would seem shallow to a young child, let alone thinking adults. It also subverts the classic first game's powerfully ambivalent message about what we are prepared to do for our families.
5971) Cant belive what they did to our characters, i am actually spechless. Let that be a warning for other devolpers, that politics, feminism, and other stuff have nothing to do in a Videogame
5972) It`s my first Review and i had to create my Acc for it. i just wanted to say, thank you FOR RUINING this Game Story. That`s how u destroy a potentially great game.,,Just dumb Story telling
5973) This **** doesn't cost a penny!,The story, the plot, the characters - it is a total failure!,I was literally crying over my spent money for about half an hour.
5974) Cliché script and another bad ways. I don't want to see sjw items in games. Sorry Naughty Dog. Real Gamers are here.
5975) Worst ending, seven years of waiting not worth it. Most stupid story in AAA game this level
5976) Game Of Thrones Season 8 Level Bad,Hellboy 2019 Level BAD,Ghostbusters 2016 Level BAD,Just terrible writing and story Felt like I wasted my time and money
5977) Unfortunately this guy/company did not understand why and what people loved about the first game. Even more sad is, that they are not able to grasp why and what people are upset or disappointed are about this game.,There is a reason why a lot of the old developers of the last of us 1 left the company and I'm sure it's also related to some stupid ideas of some specific head ofs.
5978) first game: Joel reluctantly takes on Ellie and develops a fatherly relationship that blossoms from cold to warm as they overcome mental hurdles to accept one another.,,this game: Ellie is basically Daenerys from GoT S8 and spends the entire game being a sulking irrational teenager, also the rest of the cast are unlikable, partly due to them getting acquainted with Ellie before this game even starts so you don't have any emotional connection so whenever named NPC #7 (like Jesse) dies unexpectedly the game (Ellie) acts as if it's a big deal but you the player REALLY don't get to care because you've only known these dudes for a few minutes while Ellie spent years building up that relationship, it's a tone deaf narrative experience.,,also the entire plot is a trope with each twist and turn being predictable, the game actively hates you for being an evil murderer despite not given a choice to play as a pacifist, this sort of thing DOESN'T make an impact on you as the player because it's railroaded, compare this to something like the first Dishonored where you're given an ending based on whether you killed people or not.,,AI is **** you can do jumping jacks in front a patrol and they'll take a few seconds to even notice you, hence why there's little actual gameplay in this game and most of it is walking around environments (very beautiful ones at that btw) giving exposition about **** you don't care about.,,i'm giving it a 2 based on sound design and the graphics which are great, the story is **** the AI is stupid, and the gameplay is what you expect (derivative with the usual Naughty Dog setpieces which don't impress me).
5979) This game is immensely bleak, with the bright hopeful spots of the first entry being altogether absent. With that being said, just about 12 hours of the game are wasted on fruitless plots, and the entire story (potentially of both games) is rendered meaningless by the weak plot and dumbfounded ending. The way the developer changed the main characters for woke talking points has not helped. The way they ended Joel and made his character stupid. The way that Ellie is portrayed to be the more violent one (kills animals) and then Abby is "all sweet" (loves the animals) is a complete joke. If you buy this game, try to return it asap. It's not worth the money you paid for it. If you really want to have it wait a few years for the price to go down to $5...and even then think hard about it.
5980) What u have done to the story?? The first was such a good game...but this...not even closer.
5981) Like fans are not even mad about Joel's death (we all know mentors always die), it's just the way it was handled. On top of being SJW trash, Naughty Dog butchered (literally) EVERYTHING fans loved about the first game. From the story to the characters to EVERYTHING. The worst thing about it is that they force you to play as a character whom you can't sympathize with, whom you ABSOLUTELY HATE playing as & CAN'T WAIT to put down the controller while playing as her FOR 40-50% of the **** game. Like WHO TF even wrote this **** story & WHO TF even approved of this trash & HOW TF is this getting 10/10s is utterly beyond me.,Well, thank you neil druckmann for ruining my beloved franchise & characters with your sjw agenda & garbage story. Not that any of this really matters to you cuz your game's getting 10s & selling like hotcakes.
5982) It's a Bad Game. It's a ugly Game. It's a progre Game. don't buy this game it's not worth spending your money.
5983) Not worth your time. 100% pass!,,Pros:,- Nice graphics.,,Cons:,- Bad and boring story.,- shallow and uninteresting characters.
5984) Overhyped as usual from all the official review sites so they can get their names on the games poster.,Needlessly violent and too political for no reason. No wonder its been banned in some countries
5985) The political **** is so bad in this game its cancel culture the game. Also my favorite character just got **** randomly killed just like wtf
5986) Story is very bad they ruined the whole series will never buy again from naughty dog
5987) This is not what the fans deserve. A cheap ass vengance story where at the end you don't complete your objective because of a 1 sec flashback? Wtf, Abby deserved death, even more than any of the rest of the thousand death characters.
5988) This game has an awful story written by a bunch of snakes who want money from every trans persons wallet. Game companies don’t actually care about trans rights or issues. The gameplay is buggy, glitchy and filled with a bunch of boring ****
5989) errrrr..... I knew that why  so many people are so disappointed.They've been waiting for this game for so many years. But now they found that the game they had been looking forward to for several years was different from what they imagined.
5990) **** **** of the stupid boy.,Worst sequel of all time. This is because of the new director of the game studio.
5991) This game is not bad because of SJWs.,,This game has poor, contrived writing that is trying to prove a point. It is forced and unconvincing. In addition, you have gameplay from 2013 and NPCs that speed up and slow down like GTAV in 2013.,,I remember others complaining RDR2 in 2018 was behind the times. I wonder what those people think about TLOU2..
5992) i really liked the first game and had pre ordered this game, the graphics are nice but the game play is boring and the sex scenes are pretty cringe
5993) I don't care about the LGBT story. Stop! I want my refund! Why did u do this NAUGHTY DOG?! why?
5994) The first Last of Us was a great story telling game, I could even say if some sort of apocalypse like that has happened that would how real life will probably be. The second Last of Us take that "realistic" and experience that a guy would learn after many years of fighting the unknown off. Also the plot twist that's not making any sense at all.,,This sequel does not worth your dollars. Stay off.
5995) They killed the game in the first 1,5 hours. And  I should keep playing because I am (am I?) curious about why did they or who are these f.. guys? And I am forced to play this disgusting caracter?? What the hell is wrong with you Neil?
5996) characters act way too stupid and out of character,characters have dumb motives and conclusions ending is just terrible so disrespectful to the original characters just a **** story in a story driven game.
5997) Femi and gay political correctness combined to create a game like garbage. Praise the Last of Earth 2!
5998) I  cant understand,what were they thinking?,Just want to write a stupid story and fook up gamers?,Kill every Npc and save your enemy?,double standard，typically.
5999) Terrible game with obvious paid reviews. The characters are unlikeable, the story is lackluster and the graphics could be better. This game also oozes of propaganda.
6000) They Put Politics in the game and very strong opinions as well, this does not usually work out for games. However the reason why my review is so low is based on how pointless and bland the story is. One last thing I can point out is if the user reviews are this bad but the Critic reviews are almost perfect means that they are fixing reviews.
6001) The game is exactly the same as the last in terms of gameplay. Nothing hereis new. Aside from a prone and jump feature.,,The story is abysmal
6002) This is the first time I have ever given a 0.  Who would ever think that what started as one of the greatest franchises ever made with TLOU1 would end up in the drain like this.,,I am one of the victims of knowing the spoilers before getting the game and was terribly sad to hear it, as I waited in excitement for 7 years to see my favorite characters joel and ellie again, maybe taking on the virus situation, and seeing their relationship grow more and the story progress, possibly finding out more about the world and infected etcetera, the leaks were terrible and I knew they were real, but I still wanted to give the game a fair chance, while all my friends were already full on hating and saying they're not gonna buy the game and that I shouldnt either, I still wanted to try it first anyway, I loved the first game so much, I couldn't not try it.,,However, sadly the leaks are as said, and it is actually worse, I never thought this could be possible, I thought even if I didn't like what they did with the story at least I would still enjoy the game at least for whats left, but I didn't.. The whole experience I was not feeling it, its not like its predecessor, the first game flowed so well and the characters drew you in so easily, it felt realistic and relatable, the story was perfectly paced, here almost everything is the total opposite, I ended up forcing myself to keep playing as I was losing interest early on, then when the dreaded moments from the leaks came into play I just literally despised it, not in a good way like when you hate a movie character because it is played so geniously evil by the actor, but i hated naughty dog, i hate what they have done to this wonderful game, i am all for lgbt, and equality dont get me wrong, i dont mind transexuals or gays nothing, it doesnt matter what someones prefference is or love interest, but you added and forced so many things in this game to the point its not even about the orignal story anymore but something totally different, almost like spinoff. The writing is terrible.,,WHY do you have to include and force this narrative into a story that had NOTHING TO DO with that, sacrificing everything people loved about the first game to make a point, it was about survival, about characters we loved, Joel and Ellie, Joel having such a rough life and but staying strong through all the crap he experienced, meeting ellie, slowly growing to love her as his own daughter, this was wonderful, we wanted MORE OF THIS. It didnt matter that ellie was a lesbian, it wouldnt even matter if joel was gay, do you get it?! but you made the whole sequel focus on this subject, it suddenly has nothing to do with the apocalyptic world and the virus anymore, it just DOES NOT make any sense, it turns into an lgbt driven story about "hate" obviously white male hate and straight hate, Joel.. One of the greatest characters of all time who went through so much, had to be sacrificed for this?? I expected that joel would die in part II, im fine with that, but this? this is SO forced and does not make any sense, it doesnt feel natural like how the story in 1 felt, in the last of us 1 everything felt like it was really just happening as you went on, it was written perfectly, here you just know its forced, it feels like they HAD to include this.They just killed him because hes a strong male. YES JOEL WAS A STRONG STRAIGHT MALE, so what?? He was a good example of a father figure, a strong man who protects his loved ones, who WENT THROUGH SO MAN AWFUL EVENTS BUT STAYED STRONG. I hoped for something like where Joel was Old and now Ellie had to protect him, and that maybe he would die in another way n ellies hands or something, something emotional that we'd love bittersweet. What you did is totally destroy all the potential of a wonderful sequel. The new character is also NOT a good example at all and feels totally forced, its just ridiculous, and actually offensive to the lgbt community.,,WHY the heck did naughty dog let Druckman do this? Why was he not removed at some point by the ceo? Kojima did not deserve to be removed from MGS but Neil Druckman sure did.  It's ja slap in the face for all the fans. You let Druckman burn a whole franchise to the ground and turn all the fans who loved the first game against you, let that sink in Naughty Dog... You let him do this so you are also responsible. If all of that wasn't enough yet afterwards you restrict YouTubes talking about the game or giving honest reviews, AND paying for high ratings at review outlets to make sure the game still sells well even if it means deceiving fans. This is unacceptable and you went from my favorite developer to my most hated in a matter of days. I will never buy your games again. Unless maybe you fire Neil Druckman and make a public apology to the fans.  Fans have taken **** from developers long enough, but this takes the cake, you get the award for most effed up destructions of a game in gaming history.
6003) Well what can I say about this game that hasn't been said by all the other genuine purchaser's. Words fail me on how genuinely soul destroying the story is . Spoiler it's a revenge story without revenge , that just offers pandering to anyone it can.
6004) The first game was a masterpiece but for some reason ND decided they had to completely butcher the entire thing with woke nonsense.
6005) You feel like you're in TLOU1's parallel world - IGN 10/10,R.I.P Joel,R.I.P TLOU,And maybe R.I.P Naughty Dog
6006) I’ll not add any spoilers but this is an incredibly poor game which offers nothing new from the first game. Terrible plot, repetitive gameplay, and unlikeable characters. Forgets any character development before the second game
6007) Spoilers: this game is terrible. If you’re playing it for the story you’re wrong. If you’re playing it for the gameplay you’re going to be disappointed. If you’re playing it you made a mistake.
6008) Horrible game. I have never seen such a bad sequel of a game in my life. They disrespected everything tlou1 created.
6009) A lesson on how to f*** up a sequel. The game play all ready feels outdated, the story and graphics are the only reason to care at all about the game. Even then the story is weaker than the first game, Don't buy this trash if you want to know what happens just watch it on Youtube. save your money and buy some better games
6010) What the F is that????? In beginning Joel dies then close game and refund. That's not wise choice.,It is disgusting and boring.
6011) Don't buy it, that's all, it just **** up the whole story. It doesn't worth buying it at all
6012) thanks to sjw that made this game look like a bad funny game! storyline of the game is awful!
6013) Why couldn't you make Ellie more attractive?  Or dina?  Or any female character in the game?  Thanks Anita, thanks ..
6014) No reason to kilo joel, by the daughter of a weightless npc from tlou1. The saga was interrumped so Quick.
6015) A step back from the original. Kinda sad that I got this. Wasn't a fan of the story hence the bad review.
6016) Save your money. This game will be available used and steeply discounted in the very near future.,,Beautiful graphics can't save this absolutely terrible story. So many plot holes. Most of the character decisions make no sense. Seems that it was written to be divisive for the sake of being divisive. The bait and switch tactic of using new character models in trailer scenes to make you THINK the game is going to involve certain characters is a straight up lie. ND only preying on your feelings for the first game to get you to purchase the second.  I genuinely feel sorry for everyone else who pre ordered this game. The only lesson this game taught me was that i will never pre order anything from NaughyDog. I laughed when i first heard about the leaks, thinking there was no way they could be true. It was. It's written like some kind of awful fanfic set in an alternate universe.,,The ending isn't even satisfactory. You will just sit there, staring at your TV thinking "why the heck did i just go through all of that"
6017) This game is just a mess. They gave no respect  for previous game characters, by torturing and killing them and in the end of hours of poor game play reminding worst of uncharted series and playing as annoying characters you just can’t take a revenge, you let go your main enemy. Poor script, written maybe by some Neil Druckmann’s random boyfriends from the street with 0 knowledge of how to write it, bad gameplay and oh... it’s just a shame.
6018) Feminist ****. Don't buy that. Really. Watch letsplays on YouTube, Twitch, but DON'T. BUY. THIS.
6019) This is by far one of the worst games I've played. compared to the original this is just sad
6020) This game is disgusting. This is an insult to gamers. This game should have ended in part one. One of the worst games of 2020.
6021) Disclaimer: I haven't finished this game and I never intend to do so.,,This game is a disaster, and it's apparent from the offset. Reading the critic reviews would have you believe that this is the greatest game ever made, I suspect their ratings have more to do with ideology and financial incentive than actual objectivity. The game isn't particularly pretty to look at in context of the budget, and while graphics aren't everything this 'game' doesn't have much else to offer. The story devolves from the first game into a petty revenge fantasy, I could harp on about this but honestly what's the point? The characters are totally different from the first game, there's no consistency. You're lead to believe that Joel will play a large part of things, they kill him off within a couple of hours. A man who trusts nobody and is a hardened survivor walks into a room full of thugs and announces himself, something he never would have done and simply isn't believable.,,There's a horrific 'love scene' in which we're forced to watch Abby get railed that's more hardcore than some of the things you can find on pornhub. I did not want to see this, I don't understand why it was in the game. The fact Sony has censored the likes of anime games yet allowed this is the height of hypocrisy.,,The gameplay? Stale and dated, the gameplay in the first game wasn't exactly stellar either but it had the story to carry it. This has nothing, it's not worth your time or your money. It's a strange fetish created by the self absorbed narcissist Neil Druckmann.
6022) The story, characters, are crap. The only thing redeeming about this game is the graphics. Such a far FAR fall from the first one. It is such a shame since I have been looking forward of this game for so long. Should have just left the game alone.
6023) "A good story can save bad art, Good art cant save a bad story" I'm not a bot Neil so dont delete this quote
6024) Game for feminists,I hate you Neil **** hope Naghty dog will understand,why I hate this game
6025) What a waste of time and money. The whole story is a big disappointment. Dont get me wrong the graphics are amazing but that didnt save the gave. 0/10
6026) The worst story I have ever seen in any game I have ever played, a literal piece of crap. Don't waste your money on this and buy something like an VR headset!
6027) Why have a zero rating of you won't let them through? Why are you so corrupt? CHINA CALLED, THEY WANT THEIR STATE CONTROL OF EXPRESSION BACK. LOSERS. Graphics = 9,Gameplay = 3,Story= -12
6028) Awful story, characters make stupid decisions. Agenda pushing over actual quality story telling. Visual stunning game, such a shame it has been ruined.
6029) I'm really disappointed. The game is designed to tell you that the story is not probable and that our graphics have improved. The story is too serious.
6030) The game play is quite good, it has similar mechanic as the previous game and it is crisp, exciting to play.  However, unliked part 1, there is no motivation to continue to play.  The story line is absolutely garbage, it makes very little sense and is offen cringeworth.  I don't know how they went from such a beautiful story in the first game to this.
6031) the developers pushed for inclusion and decided to shoot their fans in the foot. they kill the beloved main character in the first game not even 2 hours into the game. Ellie wants to avenge his death but let’s Abby walk. the story falls flat and is just embarrassing. it’s sad that this happened. Ignore the reviews that naughty dog paid for. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME
6032) Over rated, ok plot, annoying and repetitive. This could be revolutionary but stood the same.
6033) نيل متخلف ومريض نفسي This game has poor, contrived writing that is trying to prove a point. It is forced and unconvincing. In addition, you have gameplay from 2013
6034) My man Joel deserve better farewell than what naughty dog did to him. Come on Neil, and ofcourse from out of no where , you forced us to play as Abby. The ending is far worst than what fans expected. I'll just gonna stick with the first game and pretend that TLOU II never existed. Joel and Ellie live happily in Jackson.,Round of applause to the leakers out there. You saved us $60.
6035) if they paid the story writers as much as they paid the reviews, the game would be good
6036) game have boring gameplay from 2013,epic sjw propaganda, **** ending i ever seen. It is absolutely disaster
6037) **** ND.(double meaning)I've been searching for what is a beautiful **** for many years,and now, I got it.
6038) Graphics don't make the game good and this is a perfect example of it. We're are forever told not to judge a game on it graphics and instead the story and gameplay. Here the story is a makes a perfect sequel to destroy a franchise. While the gameplay is hardly game changing from the original, but a new coat of paint.
6039) Not recommend for Real gamers and the Part 1 Lovers,Game play looks good enough like part 1,Graphics good,Story.. Hell no way So Bad
6040) Worst sequel I played. After reading spoilers I thought gameplay can save this game but I was wrong.
6041) Complete and utter garbage, i feel ashamed of even trying to play this, thank god i was able to refund this garbage.
6042) What is the chance of having all these minorities in the same setting in an apocalyptic world? add to that the supremacy of females in that setting, and you'll get obvious forced agenda that they not only sacrificed the plot for, but the whole legitimacy of the story.
6043) No spoilers. Expectations did not come true. Advantages: 1. Graphics. The game is insanely beautiful, only a fool will argue with this 2. Attention to detail. Attention to RDR2 Level Details 3. The ending. That's all, then solid minuses The gameplay has not changed since 2013. Especially stealth. Only grass appeared as in Uncharted 4. Good old bottles and bricks have not gone away. Despite the fact that the ending turned out to be interesting, the rest of the plot cannot be said so. Characters. The story of the first part is beautiful. This love between Joel and Ellie was real. So why don't you show the love between Dina and Ellie? Where is the chemistry between these characters? Or you just said, This is an LGBT couple, they love each other for the sake of a tick. If they love each other, show it. This game is a disappointment of the year. I do not know what else to say. This game has no advantages other than graphics. It does not deserve 96 points. it's a bad game
6044) I can’t accept such a ridiculous and unreasonable plot, I was forced to watch the orangutan mate, and felt that my eyes were raped
6045) The game is a lamentable experience compare to their first title: The Last Of Us. It might have good visuals but apart from that is far from enjoyable.
6046) I hate every part of it.Pathetic storyline,nonsense characters and poor ending.Worst Naughty Dog game ever.
6047) Man this game is disappointing. Instead of being a proper follow up to the original that focused on the story threads that one set up, they ended up making one of the worst, most unsatisfying revenge plots i think ive ever seen. Complete disrespect to the original characters and one of the worst endings in videogame history. The gameplay and story in this game is hot garbage but graphically its fantastic. As a huge last of us fan please stay away and save your money
6048) I waited 7 long years for this game. Tlou 1 had such a beautiful and emotional story that I instantly fell in love with the game and I waited such a long time for this sequel, but I can't believe this is what I was waiting for. I just can't accept this as the second part of that beautiful game that I used to love so much. Niel Druckman I can't believe what you have done to my most favorite game, you only deserve to be insulted.
6049) It's been a long time since I was so angry with a game. I have to say that the narrative and interactive experience is the best I have played in the PS4 era, and the performance of music and pictures is also top-notch. But this cerebral palsy plot ruined everything.,Joel can die, but he can't die so stupidly, Ellie can be kind, but he can't be so kind. It feels like the entire production team is enjoying the process of destroying all the original characters. nausea
6050) This is the best looking terrible game I've ever played. Literally forcing myself to finish the rest because I'm so mad I spent money on this.
6051) Honestly this game is not for fans, en serio esto honestamente no es para fans
6052) The story is not good. Game graphics have no meaning. It wasn't a popular game because of the good graphics.
6053) This series does not deserve a sequel like that ...........................
6054) You give a one of the best characters in gaming history a **** end compared to GOT or Luke Skywalker
6055) This game is full of SJW content, weak unsatisfying story, and the gameplay doesn't help at all! Why Naughty Dog? Just Why?
6056) These games are mostly played for the story, and that is where this game fails. The first game is a masterpiece in narrative, and part 2 takes a huge dump on all of it.
6057) The graphics are great, gameplay is bland, but the story drags everything thing down.
6058) Takes the masterpiece of the previous game and does nothing with it, expands on nothing, just throws in political **** to get journalists to rate it 10/10 “so brave” Boring gameplay, poor story that relies heavily on shock value, graphics don’t even look impressive , motion capture looks really *really* awkward that gave me just cause 4 vibes, especially during those awful sex scenes. Ffs.   druckmann, please, never make another game
6059) They took a good game and ruined it totally flipped the story over into a **** one that doesnt make any sense
6060) I am big fan for the last of us 1 but part 2 it is big shame make me sick doesn't deserve to buy the game also Neil have mentality issue and he but it in the game also the story all about lesbein
6061) Naughty Dog, never would I have thought you'd do this.,Their are few video game studios out in this world that I believe to be "True to their craft". Santa Monica Studios, CD Projekt Red, Rockstar, Insomniacgames & Naughty Dog
6062) Where to begin? Last time I was this angry over a piece of entertainment was The Last Jedi and dare I say this is even worse? Joel and Ellie were the reason people love the first game. Their characters and their story was handled with love and care in the first game. This game not only butchers their relationship it completey throws it out the window in favor of this new Abby character. The marketing was deceptive and everything was in service of Abby. They might as well have killed Ellie when they killed Joel because this franchise is effectively dead now!
6063) I am so sorry I bought this game.. How reviewers gave this game 10 out of 10 makes me wonder how much they were paid to do so ? You guys have a responsibility to the public to give an honest review of something and not let your review be bought by a company for the sake of generating sales.,,Guys, this game has nice graphics, and nice mechanics, but the story / plot / character development is horrid. They completely trashed The Last Of Us 1 here. I wish I didnt buy this game, I should have saved the money for ghosts of tsushima.,,So dissapointed in Naughty Dog.. You guys ruined the game.
6064) The worst storytelling, the worst ending, and insults to those who played the previous game.
6065) As nuanced and subtle as a brick. This is what happens when your starting point is your agenda, and then you build your story and characters around said agenda.
6066) Excellent animation, beautiful graphics. However the main points of the franchise, the story and the characters, have been butchered and **** upon, all in the name of feminism. Druckman please leave Naughty Dog, and start your own damn company, I'm 10000% sure Sony will fund you without question. Just give us back Amy Henning, and you can do your own thing, nobody would mind. Just please stop pissing on Naughty Dog's name and history, for the love of God
6067) {Graphics} Beautiful,{Gameplay} 2020 Quicktime event buttons,,{Audio} Very good,{Audience} Purchased youtubers the only ones who rly like this game,{Difficulty} Very easy IA,{Game Time} Average for a AAA game,{Price} high for the expectations , they destroyed one of the best franchises in Playstation story,{Bugs} Saw few, but most time visual bugs,,Most of the good reviews show how you should not trust game companies and youtubers.,I feel really bad for people like wasting so much time and effort to make this game.
6068) Its just wrong to push your sjw ideas to places they dont belong . And it just make this game a garbage
6069) A mass of political correctness. LMAO. Naughty Dog is conceited. They should respect to players who love the first part of this game.
6070) An absolute **** on gaming and one of the least enjoyable pieces of media in existence, this is as bad as it gets. Pure garbage.
6071) "Last Survivor 2" has a very good experience in terms of screen performance and combat, but the plot is over-rendered and the sense of singularity of the previous game, and the characterization of the new character is not very good. The editor also pointed out that the narrative part of this work has structural defects, which ultimately leads to the story experience feeling with Ellie as the protagonist, which is far from the previous work.
6072) this is an insult to all the fans that played the first part back in the day, just don't play this game and go watch a playthrough if you're just curious about the story, don't waste your money.
6073) Gameplay is OK typical Naughty Dog style,but Storyline,It is just SHOOOOOK,No one want game like this
6074) So funny that just IGN Japan wrote professional honest review on a game. Im not against the teenager's ideas of this crap with good graphics. It just need more talented writers, like in RDR 2. American games from a masterpieces became sjw twits. Wasteland 3 postapocalypse is more real than this untalented crap
6075) to all those reviewers who gave this BS a 10/10 you are destroying the gaming community just for your own benefit and relationship with the devs to get more review copies and fame. the Last Of Us 1 was a masterpiece this **** is a disaster 0/10. Good not that much but good RDR2 had better. story? 0/10. Character development? 0/10. Gameplay? same as in TLOU1 with a Jump button.
6076) Abby kills Joel in front of Ellie.The full game scenario based on revenge.In final fight we finally have opportunity to kill abby but we didnt kill her and just let her go??? IS THIS JOKE OR SOMETHING JUST WTF!!!!!! IF ELLIE DIES IN FRONT OF JOEL, JOEL SHOULD HAVE KILLED EVERY **** PERSON ON THE WORLD
6077) This game destroys the legacy of the two main characters and the story is complete crap.
6078) This sequel to the first game Is a massive disappointment . They added a doge button, jump and prone. Other than that nothing really changed. The game pace is slow but the artwork and graphics is beautiful. There are plot holes and  some characters Decisions make absolutely no sense. The character feel like entirely different people making choices they would have never made in the first game. But they don’t explain why there making these decisions.  I feel like the writer was pushing agendas instead of actually caring about the characters and players. I’m truly disappointed with the last of us part 2. Especially considering the first game to me was one of The greatest games ever made
6079) Such a terrible game, cant believe the leaks were true and now I wasted money on this. I won't be buying from Sony anymore
6080) If they actually spent time trying to write a halfway decent story instead of trying to be the most “inclusive” game ever made. This game was trash.
6081) a piece of **** this game, and all who defend it are strong allies, you mess up the game disgusting this
6082) This game ruined the series such a disappointing game,The gameplay and graphics are great but the story is bad really bad
6083) Graphics are great, sadly graphics don't make the game great. The story (which the original did great) is terrible. Gameplay is lacking heavily especially around stealth. What kind of game, motion captures and digitizes the lead designer for a sex scene???,Needless to say I got my money back
6084) This the worst sequel I have seen to any game, and easily the worst Naughty Dog game to date. Whoever calls this game a masterpiece is either being bribed or has zero brain cells. They said most people wouldn’t like this game before it released, so then what was the point in spending millions of dollars making a game that you knew would be hated by the fans. Naughty Dog has lost all my repsect and I hope they do not make an Uncharted 5, because they would ruin that franchise too. Do not trust people who claim that this is a great game. No wonder over half of Naughty Dog’s staff left during development of this game. Do yourself a favor and save your money for games that don’t spit in the faces of its fans. Joel dies 2 hours into the story, Ellie turns into an idiot for killing all of Abby’s friends but not killing her just because she gets a flashback to Joel playing a guitar, and the game tries to make Abby a likeable character even though she kills Joel and Jesse, and almost kills Tommy, Dina, and Ellie. Joel dies without knowing who killed him, and Abby even gets saved by Joel but still kills him. If Ellie was killed and Joel was the one hunting down Abby, the last thing he would do is spare the person who killed the person that he sees as his daughter. There is no way anybody can say this is on par with the first one, because the first one is leagues above this pile of trash we waited 7 years for. The graphics and music are the only great things about this game, but none of that matters when the story is terrible and the gameplay gets stale quickly. Also, nobody wanted to play as a new character for half the game, especially if that new character is as unlikeable as the one we were given. The focus should have been on Joel and Ellie, because that’s what made the first game so great. They should have also made Tommy playable instead of Abby and have Ellie and Tommy be the characters you play as along with keeping Joel alive until at least the last few hours of the game. There’s a lot more problems I have with this game, but I don’t want to spend time writing them all down. Just know that this game is not something you should be proud to like, because it completely butchers what the first game had established for its characters, and the story has too many logic gaps and characters acting like they’re not themselves. I highly recommend the writers of this story quit and go be janitors at Taco Bell, because they would be more useful there.
6085) what the... Cheap promotional propaganda.  PC is nothing.  Just the story is damn.  It is not a natural PC.  Naughty Dog is over now.
6086) after 9h of gameplay i can tell 2 thinghs. grssphic and motion are the brst thing i've seen in year, nothing is like that.not 10 but 9.5 it's ok. but, and this is the really bad part. the story it's totally a trash. if something belove 0 can be voted, that's the the vote they deserve. **** like professional porn, free drugs, killing protagonist of the first chapter like a animal. drugs free like this is normal in theen. u dont give player any tipe of chose. i hate drugs, i hate **** and gay scene u have to GIVE ME CHOOSE WHAT I WANNA DO. kill joel in the first 3h of game, let the story go forward just for revenge and nothing,,,,,, u can reveng because ellie is too weak to kill someone that kill u entirely frinde lovers and family. oh and dont fogrt to try play a guitar without 2 figer. u cant. this is why i give 0 to this. they deserve to close they'r develope studio and start from scratch, maybe from someone mentally stable. tomorrow relessed fo 50€. persona 4 golden await's me.
6087) They actually ruined it the effin a holes actually ruined a beautiful masterpiece to force some kind of sick agenda and ideas among the gaming community,Lets begin with the story . IT WAS REALLY BAD this kind of storytelling didn't work with tlou world and they changed so much attributes of our beloved characters just to make it work but it sucked,the ending was really unsatisfying and a pain in the ass to watch with no character development to achieve it,The graphics and gameplay design were great though the gameplay half of the game will force you to play with some character for no reason and it felt wrong cringy and uncomfortable,the plot made some character design hilariously awful .
6088) Joel is OOC compared to part 1.,I can accept his death but not like this.,,Ellie kills so many people to k... forgive Abby.,Double standard? NPC lives matter.
6089) If you want to take this game as a brand new franchise I would give it a score of 7 but not for a game as part 2
6090) In short they ruined everything that made the first one so great.,Summary:,The big open spaces feel empty and lack detail.,Tries to hard to be new "GOT", striving for shock value and meaningless cruel characters deaths,Misleading marketing.,It is also full of leftist propaganda.,It is extremely violent, but it is not justified, it's just for the sake of violence.,Graphics are decent, but inconsistent, some parts of the game look amazing other mediocre, as if  it was made by different dev groups (i guess that's due to the crunch).,Gameplay is good but nothing extraordinary. However story is woeful, it detaches itself from what TLOU special for me,,,My real score is a 5/10 but to counter the press who gave this mess 10s, i'm giving it a 0.
6091) This game can be summed up as bad story telling and discarding everything we loved about the first game. It feels like the studio simply wanted to cash in and ride off the previous success of the franchise by delivering this garbage game.
6092) F this game I didn’t wait 7 years for this sjw and preachy **** I’d rather flush my money down the toilet.
6093) Leftist political garbage completely ruined this game.  Absolutely degenerate.   I made my 16 year old return it.   The narratives even made her feel uncomfortable. It's too bad we just finished the first one together.
6094) The gameplay is so good you cant expect any less from NoughtyDog however the story is so lazy and cheap makes you feel bored and hate the characters.
6095) Only dirty propaganda in this game. Look how they massacred my TLOU franchise
6096) You just can't do that with a such beloved game franchise. Story feels cheap, and unreal. It's nothing worth playing.
6097) It's an absolute shame that Naughty Dog continues to prove that no game company is infallible. The story has been ripped of it's charm and is now full of nothing but cheap shock value and parts meant purely to just cause anger. Spoiler part: The story has been immediately ruined in the first few hours when Joel is killed off for shock value. The angry child of a girl who did it is one of the main characters now and you play as her for a large part of the rest of the game. The story tries to be spun as Ellie being the bad guy for going after revenge, even though she literally watched Joel's head get beat in in front of her. Ellie is then to the side storywise, and is a very one track personality for the remainder, instead of the very lively and deep character she was in the previous game. Some games pull the "flip the player character trick" well; TLOU 2 is not one of them. Pathetic showing from Naughty Dog, and I genuinely wish I could get a refund.
6098) Absolutely disgusting trash of a game. Not one single good thing worth saying about it. From terrible storyline, forcefeeding LGBT culture, butchering the legacy of the first game, ridiculous ending; feels like a rollercoaster ride through the local garbage disposal area.
6099) the media is giving this game 100 bombs, when it clearly doesn’t deserve it. The character developing feels like a commadore 64 trying to run **** crysis and file the entire nations taxes at the same time. The touch of the original is completely gone. The story is terrible and predictable, and the gameplay is even worse. This game can be made **** easy with a simple few switches in the options menu. It tries so hard to act like a movie, but still fails in that regard. This game is garbage.
6100) All the spoilers where true, avoid this trash like the plague.,,The cut-scenes are photo realistic awfulness, who on earth wanted this as a sequel ?.,,The original is a masterpiece, this makes it obvious Sony is the same dead duck that all modern A+ game companies have become, allowing Naughty Dog to make this and putting there name too it. Just sad.
6101) There's so much wrong with it.  The plot!  Killed the one character we all cared about.. What happened?  I mean we know what happened.   SJW virtue signaling in a game. And it checks all the boxes.
6102) Visuals and gameplay are good but the story is absolute ****  Naughty Dog just ruined the game.,The last of us was a masterpiece but part 2 is pure trash
6103) must remember ND, you guys are just game makers not a social activist. if you want a change the world, go to capitol with pickets not making **** PC stories
6104) This game is just an all round mess.,The only thing it has going for it is the semi-decent graphics and even they aren't amazing for a game releasing 2020.
6105) It is horribly educational and boring and has no consideration for fans. -10
6106) Disappointing... I'm sad I'm saying this about giving naughty dog this...but I'm really disappointed
6107) The successor of one of the Best Games ever made is more a political statement than a game.,While it does have great graphics and a wonderful sound, the gameplay is fluid but not on a near perfect level. Sometimes it feels too clumsy and not polished enough.,The story on the other hand is nothing more than making a statement against men while focussing more and more on gender issues. With killing of the first games main  character the story feels more constructed than anything else- while you shouldnt judge anybodys work solely on a political bias, the trailer are false marketing and nobody should ne encouraged to buy this game.
6108) The Last of Us 2 is a kick in the dick for fans as they ruin or kill off likeable characters for LGBT rubbish that should NEVER be in these games. The graphics are very pleasant and the gameplay is okay but the overall experience feels terrible due to its bad story.
6109) First 30 minutes are perfect, flawless. Graphics are great, the story is cool.,And then in one scene they totally butcher the story (I won’t spoil it for you because I want you to get as disappointed as I’m right now) and you end up losing any interest in playing this game, because there’s no point after that. After that, it's not The Last of Us you love.,,The dynamic that made the first game great is gone. We can’t have it because Druckmann employed Anita Sarkeesian, so you can only imagine where that’s gonna lead. I don’t mind shocking U turns when logical. But to me it seems Druckmann did it only to clear up the path for Anita’s version of The Last of Us which is why it feels so nonsensical and forced. Such a waste of potential…,,Another reason you’ll get angry is because you’ll feel cheated. You paid for 25+ hours of gameplay, yet the game you knew ends after 30 minutes of play straight up. I’d advise everyone to watch the walkthrough on youtube up until the U turn scene and then if you think that’s something you’ll enjoy for another 24+ hours, then go ahead and buy it, more power to you.
6110) Year 2020 ofcourse graphics beatiful ofc details is so good but scenario?,Its realy.. realy!! BAD! no feelings no hype no meaining,Naughy i'm sorry but u f..d up
6111) So perfect part one, and so ugly part two.,Waiting so much time and get this s...t.,,After that I realized, I dont buy PS5....
6112) My answer is to Drackmann and Co., for lying trailers, for lying reviews, for a weak game, for the vile removal of Joel in the prologue, for the destroyed history of the first game ...
6113) I can’t believe you’ve done this it’s terrible it SUCKS worst game ever there’s no comparison to the 1st game I don’t know why you had to make it a lame ass game but congrats you and your game suck would NOT recommend don’t buy it you’ll 100% regret it , it doesn’t even worth $10
6114) Bad story, bad pacing, stale gameplay, good graphics. Not nearly as good as the first one.
6115) Bad stooooooory from a game must have great story so I give you this score We wait for this game for 7 years and that's not what we waited for
6116) This game is a disgrace to the franchise, shame on naughty dog. Dont get this game.
6117) Game is really good, but i still hate SJW part here.,I actually managed to complete the game before release so i had time to prepare this short review, sorry for bad eng tho. To be short stealth mechanics are still the same and didn't developed throughout the years.  You still can feel the tension thought. Shootings part are as great as ever and worth buying game already, you can feel every weapon from pulling revolver trigger to hitting enemies with foam. But to get to the interesting part, yes, there is a lot of political correctness in the game. There is a lot about  women are stronger and better than men in everything, and the only community in the game where a man is ruled (suddenly) are fascists. This story is about a cycle of violence, an obsession with revenge, a good story.  The heroes are interesting in the second part, I don't argue.  But even a few of these political correctness and radical femenism in the game is a spoonful of dirt in a barrel of honey. The way white men are presented with chauvinist and biggots scum and women have all the power. In the end, i would still recommend the game, but its defenetly not a masterpiece and not as good as 1 part. Please dont hate the company and its workers but Niel Drakman and his radical femenism friends ( you know who i am talking about). In the end the only way to show them that this is wrong is by reviews.
6118) don't buy this game. it is such a disgrace that they even made this game. what a waste of money and time.
6119) Here's a thing!!!! Disgusting story! You guys just ruined the whole The last of us game story, thanks so much for that.
6120) The worst game ever made Neil Druckmann deserves all the hate he gets for this badly written game. My mum could of written a better script, hope they fire him.
6121) This game is basically an unfortunate progressive and feminist pamphlet of idiom that politics mess with the art of video games. My most sincere rejection
6122) I don’t usually write reviews but for The Last of Us i am not only making and exception, i have gone out of my way to create this account. What was naughty dog expecting? How can you so brutally push a political agenda down people’s throat? Are you guys really dumb enough to expect TLOU fans to see the hero die in the beginning of the game and like it? TLOU was all about Joel and Ellie and the sequel was all about how Naughty Dog destroys that relationship and the game itself. It in fact was not even a sequel, it was a SJW’s murder of the first game. Extremely disappointed with not only Naughty Dog but also Playstation. I kept this machine for 8 years only for this game and this is what I get. I have now decided to sell it and switch to PC. Thank you for your piece of trash, this review is what you get for killing beautiful story oriented games and characters.
6123) Absolutely trash! I'm not talking about graphics or gameplay mechanics etc. It's about the story, what the hell is this sh*t!!!!!?? Seriously what is this??! Great work SJW you done it again, you ruined the another franchise.......
6124) WOW..... JUST WOW....,they have been a naughty dog indeed,Graphics are good, the story, just **** they let Joel die for no reason???,Stick with the first game if you can and highly not recommended
6125) Insult the consciousness of old gamers-Insult the game industry- Insult our memories from the first part- Insult 7 years waiting for gamers-Really embarrassing -  Attention- Attention- Gamers who have not yet experienced playing- .Danger - Danger - The danger of destroying your memories with the first part-naughty dog was destroyed by this Ridiculous game-Adventure with two ridiculous little girls  - This is the end of ridicule - Insulting old gamers who have been waiting for a new series for 7 years -destroyed all our memories with the first part -   It has nothing but graphics and art design -   My score for the first part was 9  - But I give this score 0- The most ridiculous game of the 8th generation -  In three words -The most ridiculous - the most meaningless - the most reckless--Those who say it's a good game don't know anything about the game industry- Now it has been proven that the scorers of these big companies know nothing about the game industry . 95 very foolishness
6126) Horrible game, do not waste your money purchasing this absolutely garbage of a game.
6127) This game is trash and it is absolute proof that metacritic is compromised and untrustworthy that the critics would rate it so high. **** this game.
6128) The history of TLOU2 is a big trash compared with the first game that was very good done. The bigger trash of 2020, consider only the first game for to play. Game for communist, the trash of the world!
6129) A great PC SJW POS. Can we have good games again please?,Seems like all games have to shove politics down our throat now.
6130) Terrible game, PlayStation is awful buy an Xbox and play halo instead lol enjoy your rating bombing
6131) Graphic 8/10,Story 0/0,Gameplay 5/10,Character 3/10,This version so disappoints me.,Total 0/0
6132) Not enjoying clunky controls or having LGBT rammed down my throat. That doesn't make a character believable, and that's not why I go to video games
6133) The Game is just bad with its plotpoints being derived from other media aswell (like the Revenant). The other stuff we dont have to talk about. Most of the good things about the game are either derived from the first game (which it breaks) , other media or souiless Appeasement culture. Actually good that the game was spoiled because it helps a lot of people save money in these trying times rather than spending it on something so bleek.
6134) I can't believe I'm actually giving a 0 to game which I was so passionate about. The simple fact that the plot from this game is so stupid I mean so stupid I just can't bear to think about it. Naughty Dog destroyed it's reputation but also this game in a bit of seconds.
6135) no body is complaining about the game graphics or the gameplay mechanics, but that's not what made the first game great!, what made the first game great is the story and the characters, all I want is to play a great game without controversial topics or politics, LEAVE GAMES OUT OF THIS ****
6136) Gameplay is fair... Story is a bunch of WTFs,Characters are shallow Music is good,Graphics just wooow,Nothing new Linear normal game
6137) Very boring game. Go from A to B, watch a cutscene, rinse and repeat. Didn't  like the story too, nothing new, secondary character are bad represented, and plot twists can be easily guessed. Same bad combat system of the first game too.
6138) This game is nothing more than a bad dream, which is best to be forgotten.  Once you play or watch the game you will realize this game should have never been released.
6139) The disrespect this game showed towards its predecessor is abhorrent, if you enjoyed any part of the first game give this a miss.
6140) Disappointing, Druckmann spit on these characters and their legacy. Insulting to Last of us 1 and the people who loved Joel and Ellie
6141) Some games aren't meant to have sequels. This is the embodiment of how to **** up a sequel and mislead players into thinking OG joel into the game)
6142) As a huge fan of the first game, I really wanted to love The Last Of Us 2. However, TLOU2 simply isn't the game we were promised. Trailers, previews, and other marketing of this game have been totally dishonest. I don't want to spoil anything, but what I can say is this: we were promised a sequel continuing the story of two beloved characters, however this game is barely about them. The game director, Neil Druckmann appears to have become totally self absorbed and goes out of his way to subvert the expectations of the audience, seemingly for the sake of doing so. If you are a fan of the first game, do not buy this expecting another adventure with Joel and Ellie, because you won't get it.
6143) If developers just used the death of main characters to stimulate emotions of players without logics, they're only trying to consume this franchise and making more money from it.
6144) Personal Agenda kills creativity Neil Druckperson.  The first game was one of my all time favorites, what a shame.
6145) Can’t believe they actually got the actors to agree with filming this heap. I spent 7 years waiting for this only to play it for 2 hours. The game makes me so depressed thinking about it. Please don’t buy I beg you.
6146) Worst game I have ever played, boring game play and a laughably bad story. Avoid it like Corona.
6147) game is bad. Yea graphics is nice and all, storywise: not so much. Major disappointment. 6 years of waiting and we are served this SJW mess. Fails to live up to the first game. This is coming from a player who has platinumed and played the game at least 10 times. Acting in the 2nd game is subpar and I don't really care about the new characters, whereas the characters in the first are memorable. 0/10 bigot sanwich
6148) Is a lesbian angry game to lgbt community. 1 hour of gameplay and is a walking simulator.. I recommend just play the 1, and imagine the end.
6149) An incomprehensible and unconvincing SJW's trash story.,It's not probable, it's not convincing, it's hard to understand the characters' thoughts and behaviors.,If you want to promote your values or ideology, rather do a public interest campaign or write a paper or contribution.,Instead of pooping in the game.
6150) Of course, it's good to have a message, if there's anything you want to say. But you can't use movie as the message tool. I think there should be beauty of its own. If you put the message up front and the movie keeps shouting slogans, you shouldn't be like an old cheap propaganda movie.,-Bong Joon Ho
6151) The stupidest story ever. Get your golf clubs ready! The last of ma’am! Whoever green lit this story should be fired
6152) Awful story, irritating characters. They ruined one of the best game series.,,Rest In Peace Joel.
6153) They ruined a good franchise by allowing mentally ill individuals such as anita sarkesian to influence it. The 3 point are for the graphics, sound effects... However the plot is garbage, the characters are garbage and the politic agenda behind this game is garbage. Sorry
6154) The game did to the Last of Us series what Kingdom Hearts 3 did to the Kingdom Hearts series — the only difference being Kingdom Hearts fans defended KH3, but nobody who was a fan of The Last of Us will be saying any praise about this game (unless they have a verified check mark on Twitter, how interesting!) Although being technologically decent (which was already expected), the story is both boring for new players and an insult to fans of the first game. The gameplay is nothing special either. Definitely a disappointing experience.
6155) This release is a very politically biased addition to a series that began with no political affiliation. Leave politics out of video games! 0/10
6156) This game destroyed my heart. It ruined the characters, it made them non traditional to put it politically correct. Naughty Dog ruined the experience we enjoyed in the first game, this game was by far the worst game ever to experience. Just because it has very realistic graphics, it would ever make me by default enjoy the game. The story is disgusting, the characters were ruined, the experience was horrible. Naughty dog is trying to be abstract and different but neglecting what the fans want and what they enjoyed previously is Naughty dogs downfall. Appeasing the lgbt community and trying to win praise from them is why Naughty Dog destroyed a game franchise we loved. If there is one word that describes this game is disgusting! From all angles!
6157) The game is absolutely horrendous. When the developers talked about this game in the beginning, it was going to be about Joel and Ellie and their journey. What they meant by that was Joel has a horrid death and dies by an SJW garbage character named Abbie. The female characters in this game look very masculine and Abbie looks like a a steroid abusing bodybuilder with a head and voice of a female. Not to mention, the sex scene in this game just tops it all off with why you shouldn’t purchase this game. For gods sake, I was expecting there to be buttons to press during the scene. ‘X’ to thrust and ‘O’ to pull out. They ruined this game with the god awful plot.
6158) The first game was an absolute masterpiece of character development, story telling, and emotional investment that its amazing Naughty Dog could screw it up so badly with the sequel.,,I'm reading some of the higher scores and can't stop cringing at how forced their review sounds. Its like some people are so indoctrinated into their weirdo fringe identitarianism that even when they're served up a plate of crap they'll jump for joy if it means perpetuating their sad, pathetic narrative.,,What a total waste of amazing characters to be treated so poorly.,,If I could give this game a negative rating I would.
6159) Highly doubt the so called industry gamers played the game.  I would like to see them stream it and watch there reaction...,The story took a turn for the worst and felt so generic.,Lack of orginal story.,One time play through.,Still no multiplayer
6160) disappointing plot and game play experience. NaughtyDog really know how to add PR tags to the game, but at the end of the day, what reall
6161) I want the last of us part 2, not the SJW part 2!,Why are there huge and strong women in the post-apocalypse? why are the main camps commanded by women? this is a humiliation of men! in addition, the characters are not logical, many things spoil your vision of the world, the first part was complex and complete, there were no inconsistencies! HUGE THANKS TO LOCATION DESIGNERS, and a huge disrespect to Neil!
6162) Naught dog shat on everything we loved about the game from TLOU 1, the writing is just so terrible and we will never forget how they treated our man joel.
6163) They couldn't have ruined it worse. Storyline is absurd, characters' backstories are lame. They literally built up a game for a dead surgeon's daughter, and that makes no sense. Shame.
6164) I will not endure any form of entertainment that puts pushing it’s stupid agenda over making a quality, well thought, and engaging experience for its consumers.
6165) Don't Buy this **** or the industry will think we agree with this bull**** why? Because The game apart from being made solely to favor to the political agenda, discards the characters that we love so much is boring as missions and does not fill the emotion that had caused the previous one
6166) I celebrated my account just to say how **** this game is Joel’s death was so rushed followed by a bunch of other stupid plot points all leading to the must underwhelming and disappointing ending I’ve ever seen. I was looking forward to playing this game for a while just to have naughty dog drop a fat hot steaming pile of **** in my lap
6167) I am just highly dissapointed... The last of us was one of my fav games of all time, I loved characters and great story, but this... I just feel very sad, I would never thought that Naughty Dog will dissapoint me so much. I feel that they only purpose was to shock the player... So they did, but in the worst way possible .
6168) Story is utterly disgusting. Characters lost all their charm, intelligence and personnality.
6169) except for the graphics , the game is pure manure . save ur money , buy ather game or wait for cyberpunk 2077 to be released
6170) Awful story, wasting characters, false trailer, and ruined one of the best game series.
6171) Can't belive how pointless the climax was,Never seen more **** up plot in my life
6172) Unfortunately, the game has nice gameplay, but the plot is described in one word - Disappointment. Many thanks to arrogant people who consider their political views more accustomed to a good story. Hope you come around your actions.
6173) This game touched me... and I can never show you where...,,I hate so much about the things this game chooses to be...,,2020 is a walk in the park compared to this game...,,I saw my father shot... I never cry until today...,,0/10
6174) It was really convenient that the entire game was leaked so nobody has to play such an awful story.
6175) Awful game DO NOT BUY. The core of this game is About women empowerment no deep story not characters development at all! You do not have to make ugly women to express empowerment that is far from real world !! Naughty Dog will be forever cursed
6176) PS4 exclusive, and yet again it's a walking simulator.. just with a worse story than usual :)
6177) Game looks okay, but that's about it. Gameplay is slow and tedious. 2-3 hours into the game and it feel more or less identical to the first one. No new enemies. AI is utterly trash. And let's not talk about the storywriting...
6178) They were all dead. The final gunshot was an exclamation mark to everything that had led to this point. I released my finger from the trigger, and then it was over.
6179) Jesus this game is so bad i created an account just to submit this, they honesty destroyed what could have been a great sequal for points with the lgbtq community
6180) I respect LGBTQ community, however, this is a blatant play that clearly goes against the character development just to pander, nonthing more. Also, the inability to skip the sex scene is downright disrespectful. We are deluding ourselves to think everyone is cool with this subject matter, sad, but true. I do not understand the point of the "official" critics, they are clearly worthless at judging what gamers want. Games are made for gamers, not useless critics who happen to also be gamers.
6181) Gameplay and graphics top of the PS4 but STORY WRETCHED... Please don't buy.
6182) Please.  Save your money. This game is not fun in the slightest. Completely boring. And hard to play.
6183) After playing that you Terrible game you understand how Sony pay for 10/10 scores, I can't believe we waiting 7 years for this TRASH, it's basically a CGI movie with added game play CGI looks ok but the gameplay graphically looks terrible, and the story it's self is shocking
6184) When i played it you always felt something big was going to happen every scene you could feel it was going to end in a amazing big clash, but every scene felt like it ended in a whimper
6185) Just goes against everything the last of us 1 just because and gives nothing satisfactory to the fans, don’t recommend it at all, stick with the first one and believe this game it’s not cannon
6186) So I'm not far in but.....,If you're looking for Last of Us gameplay, good news! You got it. It feels like the Last of Us.,But if doesn't sound like The Last of Us. The writing and direction of the game is very unappealing. I've heard some spoilers and no what's down the road. I just really don't like the direction the story is going. I'm taking my copy back to Gamestop in the morning.
6187) This game was a HUGE DISAPPOINTMENT!! You're forced on a very specific path without being able to make your own choices. When major events occur you are to sit there and watch. When things make no sense occur you are to just let it happen. The ending is absolute garbage. Naughty Dog did everyone who wanted this game so dirty. They made a game how they wanted not what people who pay for the game wanted.
6188) I can't do it. I got passed THAT scene which had been spoiled weeks ago and it hurt me... but thats the last of us. Ignoring the fact that it was totally out if character i wanted to move on and finish whatever new story they felt they needed to rush through that quick and painful exit to get to. And so now I've finished the game and I just wish i had stopped before 2 hours and gotten a refund. The story doesn't stop **** on the viewer's expectations or the fans hopes for a good developing storyline for the characters we grow to love and i hate the fact that it will likely still win a ton of awards because any criticism of the game is being equated to racism or bigotry.
6189) I just create account because this game deserve 0 rate . Naughty dog how dare you?! This Game is Garbage
6190) All I can say is that they did Ellie & Joel so damn dirty, and the game isn't worth the money.
6191) The graphic looks amazing, but that is it , there is no more about this game,the best part of the game is the guitar
6192) I think that i just too upset American game have lots of different between Japanese ones,but it doesn't mean you can make player contorl a fxxking gorila and kill everybody
6193) So many bad decisions were made when making this game, don’t know who would look at the script for this and say “this is it.”
6194) Story direction flopped and beloved characters were treated like trash. At the end of the game nothing was gained and everything was lost.
6195) Rubbish Script. This game really makes me feel disappointed. Actually, I can’t  believe that the spoiler like this before i play the game.
6196) Pool of ****, graphics that's the only good thing about this, everything else is either mediocre or down right awful. The history is a bad movie, Joel (protagonist in the first game) died in a ridiculous way, the history is very very forced, pushes you down your throat sealing.
6197) what a disservice to loyal fans who paid for this and went through the game only to have them play through unlikeable characters and decisions that were uncharacteristic of them. I can't believe that they green lit this storyline what a waste of money.,,*****SPOILER WARNING!*********,*****SPOILER WARNING!*********,*****SPOILER WARNING!*********,*****SPOILER WARNING!*********,*****SPOILER WARNING!*********,,how you gonna make us go through the entire game hell bent on getting revenge while making some questionable decision along the way. Only to have redemption taken away from us right at the end because ellie realizes at THAT! point that the revenge cycle needs to be broken here. Are you kidding me? Abby got her revenge and then some only to have her be shown mercy by ellie. Ellie loses joel, almost looses dina to slaughter, tommy gets shot in the face, jesse gets shot in the head and dies and then ellie leaves dina and their child, loses 2 fingers and all this is directly done by Abby so why in the flying F** should ellie show mercy? Honestly made so mad and disappointed at the end while the credits rolled. I couldn't believe I did all that just for some meaningless self realization of "revenge not being fulfilling".
6198) This game is a dumpster fire, terrible gameplay, bad story, and unlikable new characters. Save your money and buy something else. Send a clear message and vote with your wallet, the developers are degenerates.
6199) The Graphics look like they're from 2013, The gameplay is the same as the first one, buggy and slow, The storyline is utter garbage and I'm only giving this piece of trash a 0 because the critics were bought off by Sony and Naughty Dog...
6200) The story is worse than the first one and You Will finish it very sad if You spend money on it
6201) Why would you kill everyone's favorite character? And everything else feels very forced, just to please the popular woke demand
6202) This game is over even before it began. Its especially trash after the first 2 hours. They definitely paid the critics. Go woke...fine...but dont do what your did in the first 2 hours.. you idiots at naughty dog know what i'm talking about! Your game is trash...not talking about the woke stuff.
6203) Don’t waste your money.  Gameplay is okay, graphics are insanely good, but the story and ending completely ruin it
6204) I can't believe how awful the writing is in this game. It's complete SJW non-sense with awful writing that completely killed this game. If you want to play an LGBT fantasy game then guess what Last of us 2 is just that! They killed Joel within the first hour then you have to play 15+ hours as the person who killed Joel then on top of that you don't even kill the person who killed Joel. Now we understand completely why the staff quit naughty dog before this game was finished.
6205) ugh just ugh if someone offers you this game for free you are overpaying.,,The Great:,Graphics are fantastic graphics alone are why it doesn't get a 0,,The Good:,Controls while not amazing are perfectly serviceable No innovation, but it feels just like I remember TLOUS 1,,The Bad:,Is it to much to say anything not mentioned above or below? no I kid, there is a lot bad about this game most of it has already been said by other reviewers, but here I go.,,-Story: basically boils down to murder is bad and the whole thing is really just some trashy revenge fest,-Characters: I feel are pretty static and one dimensional I just can't make myself care about anyone other than Ellie or Joel and that has nothing to do with this game they just benefit from their previous adventure. All might as well be stormtroopers for how much I care about any of them as individuals.,-Relationships: If you can't make me care about your characters how can you make me care about them interacting, again the only character interaction that means anything is Ellie  Joel. Ellie's new romantic partner . . . (who's name I legit forgot despite hearing it 20 minutes ago) I will call Token you can tell the team didn't spend any time writing her and she was just there to checkoff diversity quotas.,-Music: This one is weird, as I actually like the score out of the context of the game, but I felt they using it in ways that was more distracting than amplifying in game, and I just don't think the musical director did a good job with choosing when to play what.,,The Ugly:,If I wanted to watch sex I would watch porn, the scene feels out of place and I didn't feel it really did anything to tell me more about any of the participants.,,There are several more points I want to list in The Ulgy section, but they would be spoilers so I will omit them for now, my final verdict is if someone paid you a dollar to take this game from them . . . you overpaid
6206) The IGN Japan got it right "uninteresting new characters burden the story, making Ellie's journey feel conventional and not nearly as captivating as the original."
6207) I'm not against LGBTQ relationships, that's perfectly normal, and so that you know i'm a left-wing believer but just to be "woke" or "progressive" you don't have to ruin some characters or disregard the rules of storytelling, it's like tearing down the people around you just so that you feel tall, be woke, be progressive, but don't antoganize people or start unneeded wars just to prove a point, it's like star wars all over again, that Debacle hurt the LGBTQ movement more than lindsey graham did, people saw some "SJWs" come in, ruin their favourite franchise and then stroll right back out, so please stop ruining stuff that people care about just to prove your beliefs, while making all liberals look bad, and gaining us more enemies than donald trump ever could.
6208) story is **** gameplay kinda cool gay thing ruined the game I prefered first tlou
6209) Ruined the essence of a compelling story and continuation of one. No one cares about this. On a sidenote, I hope this studio will never touch the Uncharted franchise again.,Two points for their technical achievements.
6210) Ha! Ha! Ha!,mmm...,The story behind is no longer curious.,The story development wasn't as delicate. The preparation period seemed to be short.
6211) The most disturbing and disgusting game that ever existed in the gaming history, I feel like puking just looking at her face alone!!!
6212) The game story is f@cked up,wish there wasn’t tlou 2 good You killed Joel at very beginning what da ?????
6213) I will keep this short and clear, Masterpiece my A$$!!! Save your money!! Thank you.
6214) Ruined by stuff that shouldn’t be in any video game. We loved the first one and the second should have been great. but why adding some unnecessary ideas that could change the video game industry for the worst.,Spoilers:,Killing Joel at the beginning and not having the revenge after all this? Why? This is stupid and unacceptable.
6215) This game is a disgrace to the first one, absolutely **** on the story as a whole and is empty and meaningless in the process
6216) Dont buy this game!!! I lost 69 euros for this crap i hated it so much that i couldn't finish it.
6217) The ruined the characters and the history. I think they had to write a more fan friendly history.
6218) Shame I really liked last of us too bad naughty dog ruined it should've ended with the first game
6219) The game is a walking simulator with little actual gameplay.  It’s almost as if you are watching a movie and intermittently pressing X button at times.  The story is trash and is nothing but political propaganda piece by druckmann and the ND staff.
6220) Your money speaks louder than your keyboard. Stop pre-ordering games. Stop buying games the second they drop. Protect your money. If you're sick of this, show them in their wallets. RIP Joel.
6221) Really bad story and disappointing ending,wouldn't recommend it. Not to mention the massive graphics downgrade
6222) This game is a TERRIBLE sequel! Graphics and gameplay if the story is awful as a sequel to people that know about the first game story or fans of the first game. the sequel is bad and characters ruined to prove some kind of point to the audience. Most positive reviews are from companies being paid to say the game is great and from people that never played or seen the story of the first game. This game is a terrible sequel and the developers were more concerned about proving a point then actually making a good game.
6223) Just insulting to all the players of the first game. I don't even consider this a game, it's just a political statement, not to mention how they tricked us into thinking we'd be playing as joel and ellie with the trailers (yeah, those two, if they didn't notice that's what made the first game the last of us).
6224) This game was atrocious from the cutscenes to the pacing it was SO SLOW.  Plot barely developed.  Also the LGBTQ scene was not necessary and put in probably for pandering.
6225) This is a joke, don’t buy this SJW wet dream. Let’s face it- story game with a **** story is... well... ****
6226) I never normally write reviews. I bought this game despite all the warnings.,,What made the original game good was the story. Your reason for killing people and mushroom zombies. The heart.,,Instead you're made to play as someone you hate. Not sure what message their trying to make. Some **** about revenge leading no where, but it doesn't make sense. I'll never buy anything with Neil Drucker's name attached again.
6227) Garbage story, So adversely altered, Disappointing process. 0 is even higher than its deserving!!!!!
6228) Poor story, lots of plotholes, gameplay seems dated, the first one is way better in all aspects
6229) The nwo agenda sucks. They destroyed a great saga with it politic correctism.
6230) This game ruin my childhood F Naughty dog you can eat **** I ever seen so much garbage in my life
6231) I hate this game it is nothing like the first game. This game introduces horrible characters and horrible plot in the end bad game
6232) Trash game, sick story, stupid characters. Did they make this game for political correctness?
6233) R u kiding me!? Do NOT Do not plunge the gaming world into such political, homosexual things as personal freedom, but when you have a point of view do not force people to The world of games is not politicized. Players are intelligent, conscious people, and they do not accept that their ideas and ideas are manipulated.
6234) Absolutely waste of money and time. Game play is nothing like last of us one and they might as well of put the characters in a blender then rubbed them in crap before putting them in the game.........
6235) It's the last Jedi of videogames The critics love it the fans don't because they **** with characters we beloved
6236) The games visuals are awesome but the gameplay gets very repetitive and boring also I absolutely hate the story plot and how it’s obvious certain political views are being forced onto us and in the games timeline , that’s why I’m rating this game a Zero. They should have never created a sequel and just left it as the masterpiece the first one will always be
6237) I wish they didn't ruined the game, It is revenge for seek of "We want make revenge game" so maybe make The last of us community sympathize with new characters of the game.
6238) Playing as Abby added no emotion (for me at least). I did not empathise with her because no matter her losses. Therefore, making her part playable was completely unnecessary due to the fact that we did not want to hear her story. Moreover, the ending was not satisfying at all, it was more disappointing really. No wonder naughty dog lost 70% of their staff
6239) Stay away from this game. Ruined one of the best video games ever (Last of us part 1). Good graphics but awful story. This is a garbage
6240) This game certainly looks nice and has nearly identical over-the-shoulder-shooting gameplay as the first game. If that's all you care about in a game, this one will be fine. If you're invested in the characters from the first game, namely the main characters Joel and Ellie, you should stick to the first game. No idea what was going through the director's mind as he crafted this story, but it is completely unsatisfying and utterly distasteful. This game will take everything  that made you love The Last of Us and not only shoot its leg off, but completely destroy it with a golf club, then it'll bite off a couple of its fingers and leave it devoid of any meaningful catharsis. You will find absolutely nothing of substance in part II if you love this world's characters. Revenge bad, and the developers have taken revenge on everyone who supported and praised the first game . Also they are paying game journalists for good scores.
6241) This game is trash it’s full of stupid politics and makes zero sense they murder a main character like he’s some random npc and push the lgbtq agenda how would you even be trans in the apocalypse there’s not enough time to be thinking about all that plus you can’t even get hormone therapy or a sex change since it’s the apocalypse and all plus after watching this piece of **** murder a main character now you have to play as her. Garbage can game glad I didn’t pay for it and got a copy from a friend
6242) If u sacrifice the plot for forcing hidden agenda u doesn't respect ur fans, if but sexual agenda to accuse any negative review to be Homophobic u use the agenda to mute the critics voice, this game ruined every good aspect in the prequel, even the gameplay they convert it into boring reptitve shooting! the characters are too bad we lost thier respect becuase of some new things they call it character but it can't be , they should respect the name of the game the fan base the time of the event u can't put a transgender character in the apocalyptic world where are no hospitals no surgeons, everyone aren't so sure to be alive tomorrow, just to force ur agenda on the whole world in this game it's a wierd disrespcting thing
6243) Anita's Sarkisian killed this beautiful game.,Gameplay 6/10,Video quality 7/10,Brainwashing -10/10
6244) Poor history,Game crashing Joy pad confuse Graphics suspect,More cutscenes than game I really expect more from this game, almost 8 years to show a weak game, no way!
6245) Don’t trust the paid for critics. As usual it’s the real people playing the games that give the honest opinions. If you loved the original characters you will be seriously disappointed with this sequel. Creative director Neil Druckmann has trolled loyal fans by delivering the complete opposite of what they wanted. Joel and Ellie might as well not be in this game. If you really cared about those characters (like I did) then give this a hard pass.  The level of narcissism shown by Druckmann is unfathomable. I cannot imagine how he was allowed to derail what could have become a billion dollar franchise. This game will be bought by many loyal fans and like me they will feel betrayed by the false advertising and the blatant lies that tricked them into parting with their money. Sure the game has pretty graphics and smooth game play but beyond that it is soulless. It desperately attempts to be clever by forcing you to commit acts of atrocity and then preaches to you about how awful this is... it’s moronic, patronising and simply fails on every level. The female writer that delivered the brilliant original had no hand in this utter garbage and it shows. I will never buy anything remotely connected to Neil Druckmann ever again. I sincerely hope that his career is over. Don’t waste your time or money, Ghost of Tsushima is coming out soon and then CyberPunk is following later on this year. My advice is to save your money for what are much more likely to be quality entertaining titles. Or if you really need an apocalypse fix and haven’t yet played Days Gone, it’s definitely worth a look, it’s the entertaining sequel that this game should of been.
6246) Making Joel dumbber and getting him killed 2 hours into the game just to pander to a certain audience is ridiculous and straight up disrespectful to one of the beloved and main characters. It makes no sense, considering how Joel's character was in part 1. All the revenge  killing and violence that we endure for 25 hours, just to let Abby go in the end is stupid. I'm not even that angry, just disappointed that I waited 7 years for this. Graphics are definitely one of the best features of this game and improvement to the game play is noticeable but not ground breaking. Besides that the game is a huge disappointment. My advice would be to save your money and watch a playthrough on YouTube.
6247) Best game evar 10/10, I like cheese and sometimes I eat meat, btw how are you?
6248) The first one was made for the fans This one was made for the woke agenda ..,This is sad considering it was my favorite story game of all time and i had all its trophies and even finished it two time on grounded mode . Ps4user @alanhisoka
6249) Everything in this game is great but the story is trash and half,game as Abby is another trash to US who wanted to see Joel and Ellie story not Abby story about **** revenge for her father and this game dont have multiplayer so you play half game as Ellie you happy the second half and end you are thinking why a play  this **** :D
6250) I heard all the leaks and still bought the game because nd has made nothing but amazing games all my childhood but this blew me away just wow not only did they kill Joel but they make you play as is killer and try to get you to like her on top of all that your met with hours of absolute **** trying to get back to playing as Ellie and get revenge for Joel my favorite character and they can’t even do that for me I’m the game looks and sounds amazing but it means nothing when I have to play as **** she hulk for half the goddamn game Niel druckman you suck don’t ever touch this franchise again
6251) game is still a walking simulator, no new developments in game mechanics, now to the nitty gritty, don't get me wrong I have no issues with gay people irl or in the game I'm playing and I got no problems with some girl on girl action, my issue with it is it seems less like a story development and more of a marketing ploy to get traction in the media(I have no gripes with gay people being in games, I think they should be better represented, I just think using it as a marketing tactic is scummy)
6252) Absolute joke of a game, if you’re a fan of the series just dodge this bullet
6253) Worst game of PlayStation. Naughty dog killed one of my favorite franchises....
6254) Frustrating. It's not even worth the experience. Shame on you naughtydog shame on you shame shame on you
6255) Please, if you loved the first game do not ruin your memory by playing this game. It will destroy everything that made you fall in love with these characters.
6256) Warning, do not buy. Nothing to do with first game. That's a no for me naughty dog.
6257) Okay this game is a trash no story no dialogue just graphic that u can play in rdr2
6258) I had a really in depth review written (almost 5000 words) but apparently there was an error.,Basically. If you have Depression or anxiety, don’t play this.,The main spoilers you may have heard aren’t the worst of it,This is depressing and I dissociated very close to the beginning of the game due to the violence. This actually made me feel like I have the capacity to kill someone and not care which I think is the opposite of what the developers we’re going for, and frankly kind of scary.,I have never hated a character before and I despise Abby.,Also for people looking for LGBT representation... this failed at that too. All there is is suffering and the main message I got from this game around that is that being gay causes it.,The graphics were great but if I’m honest, that just made everything so much worse.,I am so glad I had the beginning spoiled for me because I had originally pre-ordered the Ellie edition, I have no idea what that would have done to me mentally, owning 300 dollars worth of stuff from such a terrible game. I would have lost it. As it was I played for free thanks to a friend that gave me their game after they quit at 2 hours in, I still feel like I deserve a refund.
6259) I was once an adventurer like you, tillI took a golf club to the head..,Im so woke that I forgot to care about the storyline and the salary of my employees..
6260) Game pushes SJW agenda over real story. Not worth the money they're asking and nothing like the original. 0/10
6261) Since joel died. Im not gonna buy this game. Ty for playing the game for us.
6262) The story is just awful... Gameplay and graphics are the best the PS4 has seen. However the line ‘This can’t be nothing’ is literally not true. Once you’ve finished it it literally has been for nothing! notllikethis,,Please save your money, this game is not worth buying.
6263) Is trash game and can't compare to the original, the graphics make me cringe and the gameplay is lackluster and boring, they also make it to easy for an expert gamer like me
6264) While the gameplay is just as much, if not more fun than the original, this was NOT enough to make up for the absolutely terrible story. Being a diehard Naughtydog fan, I truly expected better. They could have brought back the magic of the first game, but instead filled this with too many forced plottwists, characters, and moments that made it feel like something lazily put together by a bunch of redditors trying to write erotic transgender fan fiction. I really sincerely hope they learn from this, because they have effectively killed the story of The Last Of Us. A game I loved playing growing up and regarded as one of the best stories of all time. In short, save yourself $60.
6265) The best way to describe this game is a delicious looking desert that has no flavor and tastes like s$&!.  Visually the game is stunning but is ultimately destroyed from the inside by the story as a whole and terrible choices made along the way.  Watching Abby kill one of the main characters of the game 2 hours in only for her to get away free is abismal story telling. They never created the sympothy that they were going for and forcing the players to play a character we all despise is idiotic beyond belief.  Had I not spent so much money on the game I would've uninstalled at that moment.  This game goes so far away from what made the first game so amazing. It wasn't just the graphics but the story of two strangers connecting on such a deep and personal level and ultimately one of the individuals (Joel)  killing for the other as any father would do for his daufhter.  This game made me sick, the story was terrible, and I no longer trust naughty dog.  Thatt is 30+ hours and $60+ I will never get back and will forever be scarred by a once great series imploding before my eyes.
6266) While,The first game was a near perfect masterpiece. This one was a huge let down. The movement was strange. Not sure if they bug tested it. And please leave your personal agendas out of me our  video games
6267) Such a disrespect to the favourite character of last of us. Its a disgrace.
6268) Who ever wrote and agreed this terrible story should get fired . naughty dog big mistake of the year
6269) When your gameplay is mediocre, the story is the best part about the series, and i can find better storytelling in ANIMAL CROSSING, you **** up.
6270) Alot of sex and gay i need to wash my eyes it's not necessary to be alot sex in the game i play for fun not to make sex
6271) Repetitive gameplay. Feminist agenda. same kill animation repeated. Unimaginative level design
6272) Story is  beyond unbelievable vs the ones we know and love from LoU   1/10,NIce Visuals 8/10,Basic game play 6/10,Rubbing your face in the .... Current Left idea's of life.... 0/10,People review  bombing 10 of 10 has now forced me to lower the score.
6273) Jesus,  what the hell team Naughty Dog done or Niel. When I started play this game, I thought WOW o waited for this 8 year,  and why are all deserved this?  The most important in every game for me is story line, and this is very stupid. Life is changing,  and i am scare for future games
6274) Neil druckmann go **** yourself!!!,The gameplay barely improved from TLOU 1, the story is a ****in joke
6275) Such a disappointment after the first game. How the hell do you even mess up a game this badly?
6276) This game is beyond disgusting. My 10 year old who played this had to be subjected to homosexuality. The destruction of man to make women look better to push an ideology. The whole game is beyond disgusting , I hated everything about this game. Great graphics ; horrible everything else
6277) I think we should just consider that this whole story happened in a parallel universe and has nothing to do with the main universe. Joel is alive and nothing has happened to him. I think the devs should make a part 3 about the main universe where Joel saves Ellie and continue the story from there.,The graphics amazing and the gameplay was decent but storytelling was not appealing and i mean it.
6278) Trash game joel died now jesse? Wtf why did ellie let abby go why did'n kill her wtf stupid trash game
6279) Awful game I hope Sony shuts down the studio and fires everyone they deserve it for what they've done
6280) The game is pure trash. Naughty dog needs to be sued for false advertising. Avoid the game at all cost.
6281) 1-make a really nice game,2-people love the game and u get alot of fans for your game,3-you tell them im gonna make another version and they get hyped 4-make a game with disgusting policies,5-shove the game in your fans,Congratulations you made ****
6282) The last of us 2 attempts to Pander to a demographic which don't even play the game but crave representation.In the hope of Appearing 'Woke',Naughty dog removes everything which makes the last of us series an amazing games and adds needless **** instead.
6283) This game was sold on a lie about another adventure with Joel and Ellie. You get none of that in this "game"
6284) Congratulation, Naughty Dog,You made my most favorite game of all time:TLOU,and now you made my most hated game of all time: TLOU2,I will stop buying all of your games from now until you say sorry to all of us fans, and joel, and ellie.,P.S. I bought all of your uncharted games, and TLOU 3 times.
6285) Game full of bugs, story sucks. Definitely not what I was waiting for. The point is the time that we waited to play this.
6286) The worst story in videogame history combined with boring gameplay. Remember when this was about infected?
6287) I absolutely regret my purchase. They butchered the story and I wish I could erase this from my memory.
6288) It is absolute utter trash compared to the first game in terms of the story. The visual are probably the best I’ve seen on ps4 so far but the gameplay is just an “enhanced” version of the 2013 game. So if you’ve loved the first games story and characters this game is gonna ruin even that experience for you. So even tho the gameplay is  an improvement and the graphics are gorgeous the story actually takes the game back from 4 to a 0!,I don’t care about the agendas or whatever but the game’s story is utter garbage it’s just bad, reaaaaaaally bad.
6289) Naughty Dog proved their technologies from their money. But their story has completely fell into hell. They used useful cliché but it's not right way of it. They made it too easily and they don't thought enough. They wanted game that have lesson or empathy things, but they completely failed. The lastofus2 don't have these. Rather it have peripheral violence that make people get feel ****
6290) It is completely trash game.,I'm going to sleep more than playing this game.
6291) This game has a pretty awful way of treating not only it's original characters but also the fans of the first game. It is clearly an amalgamation of agenda statements that isn't fun to play whatsoever. It is also very clearly falsely advertised to "subvert your expectations". The gameplay is outdated and unexciting. The graphics are unmatched for any ps4 exclusive but in a story driven game it really doesn't matter. Really would not even recommend playing it let alone buying it. Pretend it doesn't exist.
6292) How could you ruin the story like this? I won't spoil but this feels like bad fanfiction written by a 12 year old. The characters are one dimensional. The fun puzzles and quicktime events found in the first game are rare. By the time you are half way through the game you are wishing it was over because all you do is walk around and avoid enemies. Worst of all there is overt political messaging shoved into this game that's probably going to offend half of the country. Why? Just why....?
6293) This game is laughably bad. It single-handedly killed Naughty Dog's decades worth of reputation.
6294) This is a super **** game. This game goes against everything the original masterpiece did/told and should have never been put past the pitch phase. The developers worked long hours and this game had way too much crunch, we should not be treating our game developers this way. The story goes against everything that made the original great and is full of **** PLEASE DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. PLEASE DO NOT SUPPORT NAUGHTY DOG ANYMORE. IF YOU MUST PLAY THIS GAME, BUY IT PREOWNED SO THAT THE DEVELOPERS GET NO MONEY FROM THIS PIECE OF ****
6295) Don't listen to the fake 10 star reviews, this was garbage and the developers know it.
6296) game is beautiful,great graphics...but story ...trash trash  and one more  trash,gameplay:9/10,graphics:8.8/10,combat:9/10,story:4/10
6297) The leaks were absolutely true this game was a mistake and naughty dog should have just left the game alone after the 1st one.
6298) Unfortunately this is a completely miss for the most anticipated sequel of the century. Gameplay and the Story normally comes hand and hand. Gameplay has somehow improved with better accuracy but the storytelling let’s down of what could have been the game of the year, It’s character doesn’t comprehension
6299) Killing one of the few interesting characters and forcing you to play almost half of the game as the antagonist you despise is not how you make a good game. Quite boring and pointless story for a story driven game. Best pretend this sequel doesn't exist and savour the memories from last game.
6300) 0 is being generous for this game. Save your money and more importantly save your time
6301) Unbelievable. As a huge fan of the first game the treatment of the original characters has left me heartbroken. Joel especially. I know it's a dark world out there but I never would have expected the characters to end up like this after all these years. Heartbreaking. If you enjoy this game more power to you but I couldn't have been more disappointed
6302) This "game" is the embodiment of teenage angst, was this supposed to be for the fans?
6303) The writing is crap. The narrative is trash. Do not buy ! I repeat do not buy
6304) I have not finished it yet but I am not really enjoying the story anymore as it is simply too far away from my personal reality which means: I simply can't relate and don't even want to. Providing a basis for a very questionable woke ideology seems more important than good story-telling. So: Was it really necessary? Holy **** . Thank you Naughtydog for this piece of garbage.
6305) To quote a great man in a red shirt, "is this an out of season April Fool's joke?"
6306) Doing everything possible to make your game "woke" does not change the fact that the plot is a giant dumpster fire. It opposes everything the first game was about and tricks people with IQs under 7 into thinking it's emotional through monotone, boring conversations, and GUITARS because we need to resort to that to make people care about the 20th killed character. Cause, you know, they've already been desensitized to characters dying by the many previous pointless, 'shocking' deaths of characters who have no prominent traits other than being LGBT. "Subverting expectations" is **** not good storytelling. It's a shame good acting and graphics had to be wasted on this.
6307) The story lets us all down.  this is a game that hits you over the head with their own very narrow world view as some kind of absolute when its really just sophomoric pablum.,,we loved the first game for the story, for the characters. they were flawed but we could relate. in many ways they were the everyman/woman.  whether or not you agreed with the choice at the end (I did agree. the odds of them just killing her and getting nothing from it were far higher than any chance of success. the corona virus is a far less complex thing and they have currently trained scientists in many top labs over the country struggling with it.. and somehow this game wants you to believe you did wrong rescuing her when all they had were a few washed up surgeons and a dirty dilapitated hospital to work with? they were never going to win that. but that sets in motion this new game where apparently they were so bad and so tainted by that choice that they deserved to be hunted down and killed and they're so bad you don't even get to play as them for the most of the game.  yeah that doesn't fly with me.  I don't need stuff rubbed in my face. I don't need to be told i'm bad and the things I like are bad. I want a good game play experience with a solid GOOD story. this is just not it. this is shock value for the sake of it really and the big moral code that this dev thinks he has isn't all that. middle aged edgelord is edgy. we get it. what a bore.,,to the higher ups at sony and naughty dog studios. Fire Druckmann. he isn't capable. go beg and plead with Amy Hennig to come back. you owe your success to that woman. You are bad and you should feel bad for letting Druckmann soil such good property.  (do you like How I just summarized the game  as it is and turned it against naughty dog?)
6308) Gameplay: kinda the same thing from the first The Last Of Us, with a few improvements. It's nothing groundbreaking, but it gets the job done. The only thing I disliked was the lack of puzzles, which was a nice touch in the first game and in this one its removed almost completely.,Graphics: Really good (as expected from Naughty Dog). Beatiful landscapes. It's the only reason this game will get a 1/10 from me.,Story/characters: That's the most important aspect in a The Last of Us game, and they dropped the ball really hard here. This game disrepects not only the original fans, but every single character previously stablished. It sacrifices its own story to tick off as many boxes as possible in the character diversity checklist. It's not only cheap, it's disgraceful.,There's a point in the game where an NPC Neil Druckman literally spits on Joel's face, perfectly illustrating what this game is all about: him spitting in the face of everything we liked about the series . And that's just what this terrible director does to the fans, gives us a spit in the face. I am only grateful the Uncharted franchise ended before Naughty Dog could shred it to pieces, like it did in The Last of Us part 2.
6309) Sony PlayStation is just a shell of its past self goner the days of fun linear story driven single player games with great writing and characters and no politics.
6310) Worst game of all time by far.  Keep politics out of video games and maybe people will buy them.
6311) After playing the first Last Of Us I had high hopes for a good story. The story I played was terrible and disrespectful to the original characters,If you have to dumb down characters in order to get rid of them for something new, is it worth it?
6312) After being all in with the Last of Us Part I, I was more than ecstatic to hear about Part II even though it had been 7 years since I played the PS3 version. Seeing Joel connect with Ellie in a way that only a father figure can, it allowed me to see the relationship I have with my daughter and how it could possibly play out in my life if the same events were to happen. I loved Part 1, but as I began to play Part II, that feeling of Nostalgia and the longing to see the growth of Joel and Ellie’s relationship was cut short and I felt as if I was thrust into a big budget Liam Neeson movie with terrible a script and horrible writers. I could not get involved in the story at all. I still played through the game in its entirety, but I didn’t feel a wanting for more. I am just glad I was done. Shame on you Naughty Dog for attempting to ride the political wave to cash in on real issues. This game sucks as beautiful as it is and if Part III is released I probably won’t be getting it.
6313) Terrible story it is, Joel and Ellie are dead and sex scene quite not good, quite double standard for Sony censored other Japanese games on non-nudity bikini while their exclusive get free pass
6314) For me, PC is not problem,Joel, Ellie were sacrificed for this game Insignificantly.,Probability, justification, immersion, paragraph Writing, Everything is sucks.
6315) wow...just wow... It's like leading the TLOU 2 theme, Vengeance, by betraying the TLOU 1 player.
6316) I didn't expect this kind of story. Why are you trying to teach us even in the game?
6317) A Story game without a history. Often i didn't really knew what was happening either because i was really bored or because it really didn't make sense. Hateful characters, principally the main ones. As for gameplay there was nothing innovating, every Sony game transitioned to this formulated gameplay.,The Last Of Us Part II is a "game" for people who don't play games and sadly, if this games becomes sucessful, we'll probably be in a very negative place for creativity as developers or players.
6318) This games writing is pathetic and the gameplay is the same as last of us 1 rather play golf tbh
6319) Super disappointed. I had lots of high hopes for this game just for it to be flushed all away. The game was beautiful but the story telling was just a big f you to the fans.
6320) It’s pretty **** how they kill off beloved characters in such **** ways and the ending when ellie says to abby “im not gonna let you leave” then lets her leave such a letdown from the first game
6321) I have made an account just to give my thoughts about the game and I promise I am 100% genuine. I was a huge fan of the first installment and have waited for 7 years almost to play the sequel.,,Slight Spoilers Warning.,I cannot believe that the writer of TLOU and TLOU2 are the same. The difference in quality and brilliance is just too drastic. If anything TLOU2 feels like a badly written fan fiction. The characters ironically are acting way out of character and are not likeable either. Due to the writing you care so little about the new characters Naughty dog, or specifically Neil tries to shove down your throat. It fails miserably to antagonize the original protagonists in a way that the player is left frustrated and disappointed.,,The game kills one of the most relatable protagonists in gaming in the first 2-3 hours of the game and I would love to say it does it in a very nicely written way but it just doesn't. The player is left frowning when the event occurs because it feels rushed, weird and frankly just awkard. After that you embark on a revenge quest which also is horribly written and the new protagonist feels incredibly unrelateable and a chore to play. You constantly miss the bond between Ellie and Joel which we loved in the first game and wished the game would've given you more post time skip Ellie and Joel gameplay, but that option was stupidly taken away in the first 2 hours.,,2nd,Since when did the player care about the protagonists sexuality? The sequel tosses away everything what made the first game a joy to experience and replaces it with Neil Druckmanns personal agenda which in my opinion is a total no go. Can we please keep politics out of game and make games have people come together instead of dividing? Noone wants to play as Abby, noone cares about Dina. We wanted Joel and Ellie and not some badly written lesbian romance fan fiction.,,My final verdict? Just pretend Last of Us ended with the first. I can put my money on the fact that Neil did not write Last of Us 1, the difference in direction and quality is just too drastic.,,Also,,,consider the fact that Naughty Dog under Neil made 70% of their talented; original developers quit. Let that sink in. Most of the people who worked on games that made Naughty dog games exceptional are no longer part of it. Neil never addressed the overworking, salary-witholding of their staff and pretended everything was roses which I found incredibly arrogant as he clearly thinks that it's not worth discussing or giving a statement about, which in actuality is. Naughty dog is no longer the game studio we all used to love, it has been hijacked by people with an obvious agenda who try to force their ideoligy down your throat.
6322) This might be the worst game of all time. What a way to go, Naughty Dog. I hope it was worth it.
6323) Message to all game developers: Do not talk to Anita Sarkeesian.,Only crazy people will agree with this creature.
6324) Very sad game. Sad meaning overwhelmingly bad. What happened Naughty Dog? This is painful.
6325) If you're really THAT interested in the story just watch it on YouTube. it's really not worth playing, let alone buying.
6326) The worst sequel in the history of the video games. And this ending... it's just empty and makes no sense.
6327) Just pretend it doesn’t exist. 7 years for a golf game, such a trash story.
6328) Don't do the mistake I did and give these far left extremists your money. Pretty much shows how useless the gaming press is.
6329) Rest in pieces... How someone could undo a good game so easily is beyond me. Good riddance.
6330) The first part of the game is simply gorgeous, in absolutely everything. The second part is good only in what kind of work the developers and game designers did, in everything else it is exclusively propaganda of LGBT people, the plot is boring and uninteresting. The first game from Naughty Dog that disappointed me. And yes, I am completely tolerant of LGBT people, but I want to play and enjoy the plot, and not watch the propaganda that is on the agenda. Games should be neutral to politics and any kind of propaganda.
6331) If you loved the first game, the sequel will not only disappoint you, but spit on your face and call you a homophobe if you do not enjoy its terrible plot that goes out of its way to subvert your expectations because it's in fashion currently in the entertainment industry. If you have any self dignity, buy a different game. Don't support garbage with your hard-earned cash. There is also no payoff in the game as well, just in case you ignored what I previously wrote.
6332) very very bad game probably the worst game of all history 0 graphics 0 gameplay 0 story throw this to trash
6333) Bad story, sjw propaganda, seeing who is behind this game there is no way to give anything but 0.
6334) They ruined the characters and the ending is an absolute joke. This studio should stick to making good games rather than trying to inject woke stuff while neglecting the rest.
6335) the ending is pointless Abby is no interesting Joel deserved better Ellie deserved better,The flashbacks with Joel and Ellie are the only Good thing this game is a disgrace to the original
6336) This games was falsely advertised they tried to make people think Joel was in it. The few lines he had in the trailer were actually said by other characters... they made him look older and had him say stuff in the trailer to make you think he would be in it for a while. I won't say too many details but i put spoiler in case people felt what i said was spoilery. The narrative is bad. The lack of choice is bad. The characters don't learn. And when the player has learned revenge is bad and you want to make other choices you can't. And they just beat you over the head with all the bad decisions.
6337) No, this is not better than the first one, even if the game system is good (still feels crappy like RE6) the ducking story, and the characters, you would be better not paying for this, get a bag of Doritos, it will last longer and will be way better
6338) SJW **** game, the game is visually awesome and mechanically great but the story is just completely ruined by this sjw....
6339) The treatment of flagship characters in this failed attempt at a squeal is truly embarrassing. Everyone should ask for and receive a refund. This is clearly a cash grab by Naughty Dog. How they can expect you to play as a character that you have no empathy for in a game based on character development and storytelling is ridiculous to say the least. I am just truly disappointed.
6340) Despite the outstanding gameplay and graphics, this game was made for snowflackes SJW's.,Naughty Dog forced us to pay attention in the LGBT/ Gender Ideology themes than make a good story.,The ending is also a lame and wrong way to finish the playthrough.
6341) Being a linear game, here if the story matters more than the graphics, although the setting is spectacular, the game is horrible in terms of history, I don't know what they tried to do.
6342) the story is nonsensical at best, pretentious at worst and the self-insertion of the director is absurd. they try to paint it as a "revolutionizing, groundbreaking, grown up experience" but end it up looking like a pretentious, unoriginal movie that try, and fail, to copy what other games did 15 years ago.
6343) I knew it would push an agenda but wow.....I will be making my game choices very carefully in the future as I do not see forceful pushing, pandering and spreading views through games. I am sure Anita won't pick on this game but it is made more for the message than the game. Companies like Meta get paid to give high reviews, as we saw with Death Stranding it was a good game. I feel like a played a virtual super republican super pack sponsorship lol have fun everyone. That's all and I dislike where some games are going not due to content but due to over-burdened message inlaidened content
6344) Honestly the worst have already happened. The 2020 game doesnt even give you a choice of anything .Like literally it is so tunnel, it will look like i put the worst rating because of the Joel death but its not, why do I need to play for the character that I hate?Why i cant just kill Abby lol there is even no bad ending for this charachter, like in Detroit it so flexible. Thats everything because of the Anita thanks for the ruined game. The game play is beautiful so but its not perfect like 8/10, sfx at all is very good 9/10 but the plot and the STRONG WOMEN ruins it
6345) This game could not live up to its hype. It started off as a let down and left a bad taste in my mouth.
6346) It breaks my heart to write this, but I really did not expect such a poor story after all these years of waiting. While there were a few genuinely good moments, majority of game filled up with plot holes. It just took elements of what worked for the first game without understanding what made them compelling. It seems like this game was done by other studio, but its not!!. The basic gameplay has stayed the same (for better or worse), environment puzzles are almost gone. So remove story from the table and you are left with the shallow gameplay that will have you looking for some other game
6347) I would rather get the corna-virus than play this games again. Nothing but a waste of time and money.  Going to trade the game in at gamestop asap.
6348) Beautiful graphics and scenery. Plot and story is just awful. The beginning of the game re writes the ending of the first LOU and then its just all downhill from there. The ending Is awful.
6349) Utter garbage. Disgrace to the original game. Why on earth would we want to play as the character who kills the protagonist of the first game.
6350) oh man this game is a waste of money. well i didnt pay for it haha my girl bought it for me and she watched me play it and even agreed how bad it was. The game isnt fun i had to stop multiple and check my phone because wow this game is horrible. DONT PAY FOR THIS GAME!!!!!! AVOID THIS GAME AT ALL COST SPARE YOUR SELF THE MONEY AND GET ANIMAL CROSSING!
6351) I played 6 hours and there's nothing I can honestly compliment. Repeating tragedies, marketing lies regarding story, a genuine lack of interactivity with the VIDEO GAME and no real reason to stay engaged with the plot or the little gameplay there is.
6352) I actually was hopeful for this game and thought it would still be good even though I knew the spoilers... that being said why would they make a story like this with a clear political agenda. This is why people hate neil right now he gave up an entire sequel to the best ps exclusive to virtue signal for 25 hours, hope naughty dog realizes that the score on here is a real depiction of how the people who actually spent money on this Game feel. The gameplay is improved but there isn’t anything groundbreaking here... people came here for the storytelling and it’s just not there
6353) Absolute SJW cancer being shoved down our throats. Good graphics. However, a terrible storyline with gameplay that has not evolved one bit since 2013. A slap in the face to all lovers of the original.
6354) Poor game. Assome audio and Video but history so bad. Disipointed of the this generation.
6355) It plays like a PS3 game and the story is way worse than the original. Also, it destroyed all the built-up and characters from the previous game just to add new characters that are not memorable or even relevant to the story. It's impossible for me to recommend this game, the gameplay is outdated and the story is horrible.
6356) Naughty Dog is Abby and The last of us is Joel.,I waited many years for this game and the only thing I wanted was a good story with good characters and an ending worthy of the previous game ...,everyone knows I didn't get what I wanted
6357) The story is disappointing the new characters are not interesting in any way with no back story to know them better the way joel is dead with a golf club is just disrespectful to the players and community of TLOU I’m really sad to see one of my favorite games of all time get ruined like this.
6358) The Game is the typical 'cinematic' trash i've come to expect from naughty dog, yet completely lacking in its only selling points; good storytelling and compelling characters.
6359) Terrible writing, ruins previously established and loved characters for the sake of a new poorly written character. Do NOT buy if you're a fan of the original. Gameplay showss very little innovation and feels outdated. Not worth the time or money spent.
6360) A great first game people loved to death. We wait so long, and we receive this crap ???,From buying console only to play The Last of Us , to **** not even wanthing to play anymore, because this game had so many political adgendas pushed the plot had more holes than an ant nest...
6361) As much I was excited, and all of my friends were excited, we cannot get over the violent, borderline torture porn we’ve witnessed. Misogyny at its finest. The storyline could have been so much better, and honestly read the **** room man.
6362) this game is guide in how to destroy the first part legacy in every aspect! Awful just Awful
6363) What they did to Joel was disgusting and disrespectful towards fans who loved Joel.
6364) It has a weak storytelling. Almost characters do read old coursebook. I can't find a message from this video game.
6365) I thought the last 3 Star Wars movies were the worst thing that could happen to a franchise, I was wrong. Continuing with the SJW pandering trend, Naughty Dog has outdone Disney creating a game that disregards everything we loved about the characters in the original game and introducing characters that just check boxes and are bland and uninspired.,,The gameplay mechanics are the same, there is no new mechanics. The whole system feels dated. The only good thing about this game are the graphics and the sound which, coming from such a high budget production from Naughty Dog, it was to be expected.
6366) I've been bamboozled. Why u guys do this tho? I've been waiting so long for this game only to be let down by the plot. Has u guys lost respect for your customers? Whoever wrote the plot must be fired. Fkg get me hyped up for nothing. Hope y'all learn your lesson. Game's sucks
6367) What a lousy story coming from part 1, I came in not reading any spoilers or watching any of the leaks as I got rid of all my social media for this game. I mean the game looks good but so did The Order 1886 and Killzone Shadowfall
6368) I have no words. Worst game ever. They completely ruined the series. I'll just pretend this 2nd installment never existed.
6369) This game sucks do you want me to play with a character that killed the orginal game character i wont play it and this gays things hhhh naghty dog did this in chloe from uncharted but we did not say anything but this a whole story about gays wtf naghty dog and i am very suprised that it has 95 wtf at least the players have a better rating for now but i whould say this game needs the goty ( gay of the year ) thats what i wanted to say
6370) Metacritic please ban these review bombers, this game definitely deserves a higher score. At least an 8. The production value of this game is easily triple A with incredible graphics, voice acting, and immersive gameplay
6371) After marathoning the last of part 2 from start to finished, I feel like Joel did in the first hour of the game... should have listened to the spoilers.
6372) i can't believe how naughtydog could f up so bad, killing joel in the first few hours, the story makes no sense, it's just a basic b*tch revenge story, it's nothing like the first one. Gameplay is basically the same as before, but they added jumping or something, they also reduced the environmental puzzles to a minimum what is a bit of a shame. Save yourself a $60 and don't buy.
6373) Joel's death was meaningless. Ellie killed so many people and made his father's death worthless.
6374) Worst story ever.. This story is rude to Last of us1 Players. I don't see any spoilers and I'm very expect for this game, But finally I'm very dissapointed. 그리고 알바구해서 점수올리진 말자 추하다.
6375) advantages:,a game by naughty dog,not bad graphics,,disadvantages :,worst story i have ever seen,undeveloped gameplay,lack of game play
6376) Absolute trash....,How could they do this, im crying.,they butchered the story.,The game looks amazing, gameplay is fine, but the story is just a big fu to all the fans of the first game.
6377) The story is meaningless, it is stupid, the game became yet another victim of the trend in the entertainment industry.
6378) The graphycs are amazing but the story that is the heart of the last of us is trash i dont know why abby have escenes nrop ,and joel .....
6379) The Last of US Part II is a big dissappointment,İt has Bad Story, Unnecessary SJW elements. noooooooo!,by by Naughty Dog.
6380) The only good part is the graphics, gameplay is repetitive and boring, it does nothing that hasn’t been done before. The framerate is sloppy in a ps4 slim thus making the game not as pretty as advertised.,The story is a dumpster fire, forced politics and inclusion and, on top of that, the director of the game thought it was a good idea to make himself a character and put explicit sex between him and a steroid filled woman on a not adult only rated game. This is the debacle of Sony as a game publisher, I will be very cautious when buying Sony first party games in the future and I’m sure I won’t buy the ps5 until there is a proven must have exclusive without forced politics into it
6381) Just because you don't like the story, you can't explain the problem precisely. TLOU is not a game where the ending is changed by choice, but a story that flows in a straight line. There was no explanation at all, and it was really uncomfortable playing the game because of the selfishness that changed the part I took for granted in Part 1 at will. I don't think I can give a good evaluation.,I really suffered during the time playing with Abbey.
6382) Save your money and skip this bad game.,Don't believe the corrupt reviewers in this industry!,Can't believe how such a game got scores of perfection.
6383) Graphic is great but others are all **** up!,So stunning and brave...,Please stop **** up the story of AAA games!
6384) Absolutely terrible. The first game was amazing but  this  one  was  ruined
6385) Absolute piece of **** they ruined The story,the ending is trash the game is pointless , they ruined one of the best PlayStation games.
6386) It’s such a sh** show that I don’t even know where to start. An iconic character became as useless as regular infected, half the game is played by the most petty character in all of gaming franchise, which you hate this individual and lastly the ending couldn’t be any worse. Essentially I’m extremely disappointed in Naughty Dog. This performance was so terrible that I’m going to have to expect the next Uncharted (one of my favorite game series) to be below standards.
6387) Does your life suck? Do you hate yourself? Do you like to be disrespected? Do you like feeling depressed? If the answers are yes. Than this game is for you. This game will disappoint you in every way possible. Don't trust these critics. This game should be 2 out of 10 at most. It disappoints in every way. Lackluster gameplay and ai and boring gameplay. No fun and enjoyment, Story is very cheap and writing is horrible in plots. No respect to the loyal fans that cared about the first game. No multiplayer. The first one had it and they removed it. They destroyed all the characters. There is no satisfaction in the end. We all lose. We all lose even worse if this game does well.
6388) Such a HUGE disappointment. The AI of ennemies is terrible... the story is even worse. My soul is crushed and my dreams are shattered for this series.
6389) If The Last Jedi and Game of Thrones Season 8 had a baby this pile of garbage would be it
6390) The story in this game is just absurd subverting your expectation nonsense. I truly regret buying this!
6391) they completely killed chemistry between the heroes, this horrible sequel to the most unjustified expectations
6392) The game dashed the hopes of many players, where in the first two hours it was fun, but after that you will hate the game and play a character that you will not like and you will hate .. As for the story, you will expect what will happen but it will not happen and the situation in the game will become much worse
6393) Gameplay is really amazing but the story is terrible I’m very disappointed unfortunately, the real cause of the problem is homeopathy
6394) For those of us who followed the development path of 2 right from the start, you'll recall that they didn't want to rush the game in order to avoid "Bioshock 2 syndrome" and were looking for a story worth telling. Well guess what...
6395) Don’t believe the positive reviews and don’t waste 60$ on this garbage **** story u basically play 30 hours or so for nothing and also naughty dog I won’t ever support or buy anymore of your game for what you did to this franchise
6396) Пропаганда ЛГБТ. Ну и зачем это в игре? LGBT propaganda. Well, why is it in the game?
6397) Highly disrespect the first game including the fans. This game is garbage the only great thing about this game is the graphics. Story wise literally garbage. Shame on you Neil for putting politics in this game.
6398) Please just save your money. Please. This game is HORRIBLE I'm honestly speechless at how had it is. Yeah good graphics woohoo, but story? Yeah dont count on it. I can not believe ND would even do this to their fans and how Neil Druckman still has a job? Its beyond me.
6399) 20 hours of game, realy? Where is GAME? its look like i bought a MOVIE! really disapinitng
6400) Utterly disgraceful how the story was handled. Whoever thought it was a good idea to introduce a new character with an irredeemable act against an established and loved character should be fired.
6401) Dont waste your money on this trash.,The worst game i have ever played was this
6402) The story is so bad. it makes the rest of the game seem like garbage. I don't know why somebody would choose to do what they did with this, but whoever did should get fired
6403) One of the worst games l've ever played! ARE YOU FOR REAL NAUGHTY DOG! SONY!!! IT'S SO BAD! Don't buy it, save your money. They ruined the game
6404) The worst storyline I've ever seen. Naughty Dog better change its screenwriter. Totally ruined a great franchise.
6405) Gameplay is quite literally a carbon copy of the first game from 2013. While that's not exactly a bad thing since the first game had fun gameplay, it shows Naughty Dog's lack of initiative to innovate or try to make things more interesting and fun.,,Scenario-wise, it's a complete joke. I understand some of the appeal they were going for, but the execution was pathetic and fell flat almost the entire time, especially in the second half. There was also pointless pandering with the addition of a completely unneeded sex scene that did not serve to enhance or move the narrative forward in ANY imaginable way. I guess Naughty Dog took a page out of David Cage's book here, and it really shows... badly.
6406) This game is the biggest disrespect to the fans of the first one. The main reason fans fell in love with the first game was the bond between Joel and Ellie. And they went off to kill Joel in tye first two hours of the game?? This is the GoT season 8 of video games! Rubbish. Screw Neil Drukman and his forced agendas.
6407) Dumb decision making, unlikable characters, outdated gameplay, full of plotholes.
6408) I waited 7 years for The Last of Us Part II. I tried not to expect too much, and I was right.,In terms of gameplay, its no wonder that Naughty Dog excels at it. It has beautiful graphics and scenery, but that only makes up a small percentage of what makes a great game, especially one with a huge following such as TLOU. The characters were piss poor. Joel's confidence, problems with his past, and badass character is taken away immediately. Ellie's loveable sidekick persona becomes weak, as she comes off annoying in TLOU2. Abby is a whole other story. I can see the direction of making the audience sympathetic to her, but it turns to **** . Almost every direction taken by Druckmann is executed horribly; Joel's death could have been worthwhile and have meaning, and Ellie's goal of revenge ends up fruitless.,The edgy theme of revenge and hate isn't done well at all; the characters are very 1D, and for a 25 hour game, everything is so quick and predictable. Representation is expected obviously, but damn...even that was done horribly too. It isn't a well written story at all, and the characters don't receive an arc despite the journey they go through. Joel deserved better.,It's better to think of the franchise as just TLOU1 and Left Behind.
6409) False adverting with the plot, Naughty dog completely disregarded what people liked about the first game and instead shoveled out this trash, On top of that the crunch time game dev's at Naughty dog had to experience is inhumane just to finish the game.
6410) I don't even know where to start with this review. I've been waiting on the this game sice the day the last title ended. I loved the growth of Joel and Ellie and that has all been taken away from me. The writer of thios title should be fired immediately and the main director of the game shouldn't be allowed to make a game again. If you add the insane amount of violence in it and where is the multiplayer? I would give it -10. if I could.
6411) I am glad the leaks turned out to be true, all youtube is filled with paid reviews that for some stupid reason it was censored and you weren't supposed to talk about the second half of the game, why bother to do a half ass review then? it doesn't make sense to me. Killing Joel was obvious so I am no hater of that, is just that the ending is filled with a quest for revenge that leads absolutely nowhere and makes you play as the "antagonist" so to say, to make you feel empathy towards her (even though most of the time you don't **** care about this character at all). Naughty dog stopped being a respectable company after this game, but there will be fanboys that are going to say otherwise.
6412) When did killing pregnant women become OK in entertainment?,I would urge parents not to let their kids anywhere near this horrific filth of a game.,Yuck!
6413) Disappointment. Stupid story. Uninteresting characters. A great idea was ruined.
6414) This is so disappointing, I really enjoyed the first part, but this, this is a crap, no doubts this is gonna be a acclaimed game, but the players are the base of the enterprise, and when you betray like that your audience you dig your own grave,
6415) This is not art. Who goes on a revenge and doesn’t finish the job. Not sure what all the “critics” think. Better not win game of the year.
6416) The sequel without fans. Game for critics,Ruined the reputation of the previous work
6417) Oh, I don't even know where to start from. If you played first part, just avoid this grim mess. I feel pity for those hard working, talented developers that had to follow through this bizarre and shallow story.
6418) Don't buy this game. We don't need people to reward this kind of game, do the same as with GOT season 8.
6419) awful game ever    .
6420) Look how they massacred the franchise with this political agenda... The sex scene is disgusting knowing the story these simps have with 2d character censorship
6421) Incredibly misleading trailer. Horrific storytelling. Beautiful graphics but the story is just bland and frankly insulting. Naughty Dog have chosen to spit in the face of all the fans with this game.
6422) I wished Joel didn't die like this Would you feel good if your father died like this?
6423) Naughty dog should do an analysis of who its audience is before developing the game's story. There is a lot of progressive ideology stuck in our faces too much. For me the franchise died the moment Joel died in a ridiculous way. Think about creating a new franchise, a new game, if you want to totally change the story like that.
6424) Bad progressist propaganda, forcing LGBT stuff in an zombie apocalypse is ridiculous, shove all that SJW in your a** naughty dog, worst game of the year easily
6425) Naughty dog be like “why don’t people like the game” maybe it’s because you murdered one of the most beloved characters in all of video game history in a brutal fashion with no satisfaction and no dignity. Oh and you gave us a super gratuitous sec scene to. Cool.
6426) The story is trash because the **** trans abby kills joe and ellie kills everyone except Abby because revenge is not necessary,¿what are u talking about,naughty dog?,if the is about revenge,then don't educate us with complete Bs that revenge is not necessary
6427) This game was just awful kratos has more humanity than ellie they did joel dirty the whole game had identity politics long cutscenes of women babbling about tampons You raise a dog than kill it later that was messed  up Ellie and other characters have the iq of monkeys
6428) They killed Joel, character Abby wasn’t likeable whatsoever. I didn’t like the path which the game story took.
6429) The only good thing in this game is the graphics, everything else from characters to story is ****
6430) I nearly bought this game because I wanted to have a fun time, not for gay porn.
6431) naughty dog, you guys fxxk up everything. And all the media giving 10/10, just close your mouth and take the money : )
6432) Seriously no explanation needed for this low score. They ruined the franchise.
6433) If you like tlou 1 and its characters, this game completely destroys them. Yeah, and the leaks were mostly true
6434) **** The leaks were true, most of them. Seeing how my all time favourite game character gets killed off, the lack of sense and overtone and forcing this sjw agenda.
6435) This is the complete opposite of how a sequel should be. This 'sequel' spits on the legacy that part 1 left behind. The whole game is almost as if it is trying to hurt the player playing this game. Gameplay, however, is top tier. But the story and writing is incredibly bad, in the end of the game, it's all for nothing. Just a complete slap in the face to the people that have waited 7 years for this game.
6436) Great graphics even for PS4 standards, but it is the only thing I can complement the game on. Really sturdy and boring gameplay, poor writing and characters that are absolutely unlikable. The one word i can use to describe TLOU 2 is: depressing. I'd rather visit a cancer hospital than play this game trough ng+
6437) This game is a complete failure, the way they treat Joel is completely unacceptable.
6438) This game is **** really really **** Nonsense gameplay. I didn't like this game at all. He should not receive an award at this year's GOW ceremony
6439) Basically trash,77777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777
6440) Killing of the main character just 2 hours into the game and then making the story revolve around that is just **** stupid
6441) Where do I start the visuals aren’t great as they promised and there should’ve been more Joel gameplay
6442) It just sucks, story is terrible, graphics are pretty good, but the gameplay is boring. I found myself almost falling asleep at points during the game. This feels like someone’s fan fiction of what a sequel might have been. Naughty Dog dropped the ball with this one.
6443) What a disappointment. they spat in our faces. waste of money. they destroyed it
6444) The only good thing in this game is quite good graphics. Everything else is bad, stupid story with characters that act strangely and unnaturally or average,,game-play is like 1st part, so 7 years old,The good storyline, in-game mechanics, and game-play should be searched somewhere else.
6445) Absolute horrible. I hated it. **** Bad. I don't even have 5000 words for this.
6446) bad story,ruined with awful agendas,destroy one of the best games and make it worst,they did not listen to gamers,try to effect them and brain washing them
6447) Devs killed Joel. Killed their licence. And **** us. I hope naughty **** gonna stop that **** and woke up with the ps5
6448) Pros: graphics and animation, awesome number of details.,Cons: everything else, it's still 2013 game, with absolutely same mechanics. But story is strange and goddamn SJW stuff ruins everything.
6449) Felt like bad tv writing. We don't want to play some character we are unattached to.
6450) Worst story ever, the gamply is just as it was before, nothing new, the graphic is good. but the story and the characters are just sooooo bad.
6451) rubbish like a ****. I don’t like politics tire. I **** Neil drunkmaan. don’t waste your money. I think this game is a **** It breaks my heart to write this, but I really did not expect such a poor story after all these years of waiting. While there were a few genuinely good moments, majority of game filled up with plot holes. It just took elements of what worked for the first game without understanding what made them compelling.
6452) Spoilers Warning,,SAVE YOUR MONEY!!!!!!!!!,DO NOT LISTEN TO THE CRITICS REVIEWS. They are pointless. In the first 2 hours of the game, Naughty Dog managed to ruin what was once an amazing franchise/storyline. The character development was just so freaking weak. The disappointment was just beyond what my brain can comprehend. Next, because they decided to kill off Joel (whoever wrote the storyline needs to be fired ASAP) is just mind-boggling. Fans did not wait like what 7? 8? years for such a poorly written storyline to be presented to use. It truly felt like such a slap to the face. I tried so hard to push through and finish the game (I did) but the disappointment was just... The ONLY positive thing I have to say about this whole game was the graphics. That's it... The Last of Us was the type of game focus on the storyline. That's what made fans fall in love with the game in the first place. The storyline and character development. It is so sad that so many nasty reviews have been written for this game because it truly had so much potential. overall I am just so mad at Naughty Dog for presenting such a **** game to fans and making us wait so long to be able to play it only to charge an arm and a leg for a piece of poop of game. Shameful of these greedy creators. You definitely lost a fan due to your sad excuse for a storyline in The. Last of Us Part ll.
6453) Totally **** The sequel ruined everything that occurred in the previous game. So sad to see naughty dog pay for reviews.
6454) The story of this game is Nasty and not worthy for 60 Dollars Keep your money
6455) This game killed the first part in a very disrespectful way... Terrible story with characters which remind me of some hipster emotional low budget drama movie. A bigger disaster than 2020 with this whole pandemic going around. Don't waste your money.
6456) The worst game of Naughty Dog and SIE. A game full of disgusting political correct.
6457) don't you have even a brain to think about what is a game?what awful story, i can't even see twice.
6458) What they did with the main characters is an abomination. Naughty dog's worst game yet. Gameplay is also boring as hell. I'm happy the game was a gift and I didn't have to spend a dime on this tragedy.
6459) Why would a hardened killer like Ellie who killed far more innocent people than the scientists be ok with someone killing her father infront of her?
6460) Ending is **** Reall this is disgrace to old game. Because of some "revenge is bad" **** whole game is getting ****
6461) I'm incredibly sad about what they have done to this franchise.. the first game is one of the best written games that brought me to tears in the first few minutes. This "sequel" is just a huge middlefinger to anyone that loved the first game, hell it's a huge middle finger TO THE FIRST GAME!,,The Last of Us 2 shows how corrupt the critics are aswell, this whole thing is a disgrace.
6462) This game sucks. The story sucks. It's not worth wasting 16 hours of your life.
6463) Great!I haven't seen SJW suck up like this in a long time.When developers understand that they need to create games for those who play them.You can see that a lot of effort was put into the game.The graphics, gameplay, and details in this game are beautiful,but all of this is overshadowed by the terrible propaganda of feminism, LGBT, and other nonsense. P. S urge players to stop sponsoring this quarrel.Developers only care about money, and if nothing else is done, it will only get worse
6464) Worst story line ever make you think what the point of playing it. Don't buy this game
6465) Great gameplay, ost and graphics. But unfortunately it destroys the previous game and the sequel with its story.
6466) It could be a great game if it comes out straight in a couple of years after first or after 20+ years. So why we got what we got it's very simple and hard. It's the cause of social media because it's very new features of the way how we share information, etc. But who is using almost everyone in daily basics and from all users how many are very smart and intelligent or incredibly dumb. In the modern city, it's 50/50 but in social media, most of the users are dumb and very dumb. Clear up the point what the !$&@“ people who finished best universities or achieved and develop amazing breakthrough supposed following those dumb users!!! They literally dictator who doesn't know what they want...    About the game unnecessary continue one of the greatest games. The plot retold from the first part with the new ”stuff”. And the best gameplay you be able to experience nowadays it's just so perfect and amazing on hard difficulties obvious.
6467) Boring Monotous gameplay with bad characters and even worse gameplay. A disgrace to the original's ideas
6468) Boring animations, boring storyline, boring gameplay. Neil Druckmann ruined Last of Us 2.
6469) Disappointment of the year 2020. I replayed the first so many times I honestly lost track. This game basically trashes the first game and decides to write a tale about how you're bad all people are bad and it's so full of it's own stink it's horrifying.
6470) This is ridiculous. Graphics are really good, gameplay was fine. But story is horrible.
6471) Good graphics, good gameplay, worst story I have ever played. Nobody likes abby, my heart hurts waiting so many years for this.
6472) I don't know how much they paid the "professional" reviewers for this game does not deserve anything but with five considering most of them gave it top score I doubt they even played the game.
6473) This game is just ridiculus, politically correct will destroy the world. DON'T BUY IT
6474) I don't care about your Graphics, Animations, AI or any technical stuff I can find on thousands of other AAA games. We loved this game for the story and characters, and they ruined it with the second game. Total disrespect to fans.
6475) Well for a good ol spoiler-less review, just imagine if God of War 3 had Kratos kill all the people he did, only to hug Zeus in the end and call it a day, that's how the story felt in all honesty. These beloved characters feel so different that it doesn't even feel like the same characters from the first game and the only way I can summarize the overall story is that it never had a story to begin with. If you are looking to honestly spend money on this game, I honestly believe you should spend it on something for deserving or maybe perhaps some other truly good games coming out this year.
6476) I think this game is not what I really expected from the second part, the first was wonderful but the story of Tlou 2 seems disastrous to me.
6477) I feel as though everything I came to know and love from the first game was scrapped and the ip turned into another **** interactive movie game.   At no point in my play time did I feel the same wonder and amazement felt in the only last of us I'll acknowledge. What I went through is most likely one of the most insanely idiotic things I've ever experienced and I feel as though myself and everyone else who's played it is now dumber for having played it. I award naughty dog zero points and may god have mercy on their souls.
6478) The game is nothing like the first one with a very unsatisfying end that just makes me feel like i wasted my time playing this game, the game-play is ok but the story which is the most important thing is really bad and i think it was just made for the SJWs.,My rating 0/10
6479) WTF was that. The main complaint is the plot component and the SJW agenda. It is also worth noting the outdated gameplay with a boring quick press of certain buttons.,I cannot forgive the author of the terrible story and betrayal.
6480) Great game! I was very excited to lose any plot that I cared about in favor of "fresher perspectives" and "diversity," in the words of the brilliant Neil Druckmann. The ending was fantastic as well, great writing. Just like the critics say, MUST-PLAY!
6481) Disappointing, dry gameplay. I really can't believe I waited years for this.
6482) Worst. Sequel. Ever.  If you enjoyed the story and atmosphere of the first game then stay the hell away from this abomination of a "sequel". Just forget this game even exists. This is like Duke Nukem Forever levels of sequel badness.
6483) This "game" is wrong in so many levels its impossible to name them all - its not a game is on the top. Its just one long animated sequence of a extremelly dull and shallow story. I dont understand how such discrepancy between the objective qualities and reviews could have happened... Seriously DONT BUY THIS GAME. If you dont believe its so bad, just rent it. Dp
6484) The so called "critical reviews" are completely out of touch with the user reviews for a reason. The user reviews are full of normal gamers giving their honest judgement after spending their own money, while the critical reviews are full of corrupt career reviewers who are scared that standing out of line in the current toxic left wing dominant political climate will hurt them. They also care about their exclusive relationship with Sony for PS5, so will dare not step out of line against a big budget Sony game.,,Let's be honest here, this is a game with an expensive studio behind it, meaning it has triple A graphics, even if it is nothing we haven't seen before, buts that's where it ends. The gameplay itself is nothing ground breaking and quite flat when considering where the original was at for it's time. This is fundamentally a single player story game, with a popular Last of Us 1 behind it. This is where the biggest failure of the game appears. The story stinks of Social Justice Warrior politically correct culture, even if you play trying not to think about it, the game will slap you with more, while simultaneously destroying everything that made the original story great. If you hope of continued story of Part 1, then you will be very disappointed. I understand the studio lead wanted a game of strong independent testosterone fueled lesbian women, but it seems that they were more concerned with ticking those boxes than actually making any characters the player can care about, relate to or even remotely like.,,I would be happy for this game to be destroyed after playing it, as I won't ever go back to it, I don't feel happy at spending my time playing it, I feel cheated by pre-ordering it and I certainly won't be going back to buy from a studio that spends the most part of a decade making something as pointless as it is political. It's a soulless attempt by creators who think they are pushing boundaries, but in reality need to wake up and smell what they are shovelling.
6485) This is a **** game. The story makes no sense and we waited 7 years to see our favorite character gets spit upon. Please ND, Please remake this game with a new story, rest is all good and bearable, we will forget this ever happened. I can't even recommend this when it's free, this game is disturbing for fans.
6486) How comes M Rated Japanese developed PS4 games released in Western regions are subject to harsher censorship rules while this M rated Western developed PS4 game gets a free pass showing realistic sex and nudity? This is clearly double standards by Sony for allowing this to happen on their console. You can't have different censorship rules for different developers, that's discrimination and wrong. Why isn't this getting more attention by journalists and reviewers who praise this game for tackling difficult social issues?
6487) Horrible story arc, destroyed by bad narrative writing. I loved the first game, it was epic, fresh, and amazing storyline. This time around it was ruined by an awful story and bad writing.
6488) The story makes no sense, extremely forced. Dont spend your money in this, please.
6489) This game is a complete disaster in almost every way.,,- The story is pathetic,  juvenile, disgusting, awkward, tone deaf, shameful, wrong, dirty, creepy and insulting. There is a point in the story when two characters are talking about the death of a very important character and the scene ends with dogstyle sex, I'm not  even joking. The game director got too involved in the project, there is a character that was motion captured by Neil Druckmann, there is a file in the game mentioning Neil Druckmann, there is an OC of Neil Druckmann in the game, he was more interested in accomplish his personal agenda than deliver a coherent story. And oh god, he forced one of the actresses to have motion capture sex with him in one of the scenes, absolutely disguting.,,We have learned nothing about the fungus, the cure, the fireflies, there is no world bulding or character development, none. Everything here is focused on Ellie and Abby's personal struggle, and oh my god, both are written horribly. It makes everything look like filler, it looks like you bought a DLC from the original game rather than a new game. And they lied to you, they hidden Abby in almost all the marketing after the leaks controversy, you ACTUALLY play with her for more than half of the game.,,- The gameplay makes me understand why the critics gave 10/10 for this game, it basically plays itself with the minimum imput of the player, perfect for lazy critics, it is an interactive movie. The first 6 hours of gameplay is a walking simulator. In the parts that you do have to play for real,  the gameplay is just a tweaked version of its predecessor. There is nothing revolutionary or interesting about it as they promise in the marketing. It's just more of the same generic third-person FPS, RDR2 did it way better.,,- The soundtrack is generic and nothing special.,,- The graphics and facial expression are the game's strongest selling points. But they look pale compared to RDR2.,,This game honestly is a 5/10 but I'm giving it a 0/10 because of the director's smugness and arrogance and because of the way Naughty Dog treated his employees during the development of this game.,,Absolutely shameful, take your money elsewhere.
6490) The Last of Us Part 2 is a dark and violent game that stuffs you with pain and guilt, and seemingly does everything in its power to make you hate playing it. Critics are calling it one of the best video games ever made.
6491) Wtf is this B.S naughty dog !! Story is joke, and disrespectfull for the character of TLOU1. All character from TLOU1 become dumb in this.,Story 0/10,Graphic 9/10 Gameplay 7/10,Ai 7/10 on survivor
6492) How disappointing. All I want is a game designed to be enjoyable with characters i can relate to. But of course their top priority was to push whackjob social justice politics from beginning to end.  Sick of it. Disgusted.
6493) Just please do not by this.save your money for something good.Naughty dog really let down with this game first time playstation exclusive is bad and i am happy that it is not aviable on xbox and pc
6494) Naughty Dog’s worst game by far it is nothing new from them, you constantly WALK and engage in ridiculous small talk, I feel like after Uncharted 4 and now Last of Us Part 2 Naughty Dog are just dependent on graphics than gameplay and storytelling, Uncharted 3 is their last great game so far. The ending is pointless and makes no sense, at least Sony has other great studios but damn Naughty Dog have failed on this one!
6495) It's a lie It's not a last of us game,It's just a high graphics game used for some politics reasons full of gay **** and to get them selfs a fame or let me say to make it easy on there selfs to get a fun base the just used the last of us name in it That might be because the game is trash and no one would buy it if it wasnt with a famous name but still i want my money back for each bucks i have spend They should pay me back for the wast of time fore the bad story,For every secomd i wasted waiting for the season 2 The game is just milking a good name,Its a wast of a good story,It worth -10
6496) This is ruined by the people who made this Plz read,That game is **** awful dog ****,Naughty dog **** why. everyone was waiting for a perfect sequel to a perfect game the fact that abby  is trans ellie and Dinna lesbians dosen't bother us it's the fact that is shoved in to our faces and we cant get a break.,Story: the story is absolute dog **** garbage it dosen't make sense for the motivation of abby that **** to be son of a doctor that we dont know anything about and was just another loop hole for those **** meth drug smoking sons a ****e's to make a lazy lazy game. The games looks absolutely fantastic but it's not justified that is sooooooooo trash **** abby **** abby **** abby **** abby **** naughty dog team this game is **** garbage and no aspect of the story will change my opinion.
6497) The game is a mockery to fans, Joel's death is unfortunate and I think we all expected Joel died, but kill him that way? Spit his corpse? And not even at the end of the game or with a worthy end. The entire game is full of social policies to get along with the public. They ruined a game with a perfect storyline and characters.
6498) The gameplay is okay but the story is god awfull and the charachters were **** The game is a garbage mess naughty dog created. Definitely not worth it.
6499) Disappointed. Sony pandering to a few and ruining a good franchise. Gameplay is dull and story is atrocious.
6500) This game is not bad because of SJWs.,,This game has poor, contrived writing that is trying to prove a point. It is forced and unconvincing. In addition, you have gameplay from 2013 and NPCs that speed up and slow down like GTAV in 2013.,,I remember others complaining RDR2 in 2018 was behind the times. I wonder what those people think about TLOU2.
6501) naughty dog should be ashamed of themselves. lazy writing, bad character design and development, a very unsatisfying ending, just a disappointment that should not have been labeled as a sequel.
6502) garbage story, dull gameplay, unlikable characters, serious scenes that are unintentionally comedic, and unending torture porn.,,it sucks
6503) I think this play style is pretty good.,But, I can say that story was the worst.
6504) This game’s story is terrible and the combat is still as boring and redunant as the previous one.  Game of thrones has ruined video games forever because all these **** will try and subvert expectations for no reason at all.
6505) This game is deceptive at every turn. Without giving spoilers I feel absolutely lied to and manipulated by this game. This is NOT what I expected as a sequel to the last of us 2. Absolute debauchery of everything the game stood for.
6506) The Last of Us: Part II is an undoubtedly story-based game. So my review will be focused almost entirely on the story. The gameplay is incredibly similar to the first with added movement options and different enemy types. Instead of following in the steps of its predecessor, the sequel throws away much of its character-development, atmosphere, and world-building for the sake of adding a playable antagonist. Despite early news promising the development of Ellie and Joel's bond, the latter is killed in the prologue of the game by said antagonist. Instead of naturally becoming a revenge story, the writers try their hardest to make the player emphasize with Abby - something incredibly difficult to accomplish if the player developed a connection to the protagonists from the first game. Characters close to Ellie die or abandon her unceremoniously throughout the course of the game in scenes that seem more reliant on shock value than good writing. Those who die are always taken out by Abby, and you'll occasionally play as her for these scenes. At the ending, Ellie saves Abby's life before challenging her to one last fight. Despite having two of her fingers bitten off in the struggle, Ellie gets the upper hand and is all set to drown the woman who has taken everything from her. With a brief vision of Joel flashing through her mind, she makes a disappointing decision to let go of Abby and allow her to get away. At the end of the day, Ellie is left with nothing. The player has gained nothing. The central issue that pervades the entire story is characters acting unlike themselves. Tommy and Joel give their names and home location to an armed group they just met. Jesse, who has been shown to have a level head, rushed through a closed door into a room that could have had any amount of hostiles. He was, of course, immediately shot in the head and killed. Ellie murdered possibly hundreds in her quest to kill Abby, and not only untied her, but she also challenged her to some strange form of honorable combat before letting Abby go free. It is not good writing. It's characters acting completely unpredictable just for something terrible to happen. It's like they can't create shock value without making someone act like an idiot. Lastly, there is no joy in The Last of Us: Part II. Not if you came into it with the previous characters in your heart. Every beloved character is dragged through the dirt constantly with no moments of reprieve. It's one miserable scene after the other. The only "uplifting" moments tend to happen when the player is controlling Abby. At the end of the day, there is no satisfaction for the player. None for Ellie. None for Joel, Tommy, Jesse, or Dina. You don't get your adventure with Ellie and Joel. You don't get your revenge. You don't get a glimpse of the hope for a better future that was present in the first game. It's devoid of hope. The only thing you get at the end of the day is a message that revenge is bad, but it falls flat once you realize that the only person who got their vengeance is the one that came out on top.
6507) Disappointment from beginning to end. How did naughty dog get it so wrong? Only improvement from the first game is graphics and gameplay which in my opinion were not what kept me playing in the original. For me the story is the most important this and this story goes down as one of the worst. Ps what a terrible ending.
6508) Ruined the game. This game could be a great continuation, but alas, everything ruined
6509) Graphics - amazing achievement,Sound - great,Acting - great (considering the script the actors had to work with),Gameplay - same as previous game, if you liked that you will like this but I see it as a negative due to the lack of innovation,Story - absolutely awful and utterly unbelievable, ruined my love for the world ND built
6510) Can not believe how bad this game is. Textures are awful and game play  is even worse.
6511) They undid everything that happened in the Last Of Us. They made Joel a dumb guy, that in the previous game could spot an ambush in seconds , so that thing could kill him and move the plot forward, they also killed him like a dog. This game is disgusting
6512) An example for companies that want to **** on the fans of a game with a sequel that is narrated at the level of a bad fan-fiction.
6513) Bad Game, is a sjw simulator, all the Game are repetitive and the Cast sucks.
6514) **** Neil cuckmen， **** ND   #JLM #JoelLivesMatter,"#1 Best PS4 Game of 2020",****,10/10
6515) The game gifts an unlikeable character that only proves how a potentially good story can be burdened with cheap shock value and the death of beloved characters, yes the game was divisive, between the people who loved the first game and the paid reviewers from the specialized media, too bad we can’t kill the self insert of you-know-who
6516) The last of us 1 is a work of art. That was spoiled by a SWJ exchange. I want my money back sony.
6517) Graphics 9/10 Great animation and model.,Locations 9/10 Beautiful landscape.,Story 0/10  Poor revenge story that discard everything from the previous game.,Characters 0/10 Are they even the same character from the previous game?,Game-play 2/10 Outdated game-play that feel more fit for 2010 than 2020 .,I just want to point out to the ending is very unsatisfactory and unrealistic to kill hundreds of people that did nothing personal against us but letting go the only one who truly did hurt us. This is a game not a movie after all and a plot like this just doesn't work in this context.
6518) The game has an extremely bland story and panders almost exclusively to sjw rhetoric. I would highly ecourge anyone with a smidge of intelligence to avoid this game at all costs. Don't believe the mainstream game reviewers they are all paid by sony and are too afraid to be viewed in a negative light by the company. The game is not worth anyone's money.
6519) 2020 is hell of a year. Let's hope Cyberpunk doesn't suck this much, and make sure to vote with our wallets.
6520) A pure dumpster fire, and an insult to the fans. Having seen what this "sequel" came to be makes me think that this practice should be illegal. This isn't a sequel. It might be a spin-off, it might be a fanfic, but it certainly isn't a sequel. It took the two main characters from the previous title, used their faces and names, yet stripped them of all of their traits, personality and characteristics, and for what? A typical "bittersweet" story? A "there's no good or bad, just different perspectives" ending? Social activism? Truly deplorable. The writer should be fired and be forced to forever be remembered as someone who attempted to rip people off, by promising to deliver a continuation to a story that was adored by many, and instead seizing the opportunity to virtue signal.
6521) I can’t believe they killed Joel. To sum my feelings about this up, I shall use a quote from a very wise man. The quote is **** this **** i’m out.”
6522) If you are fed up with progressive sermons in your life, fed up with them thinking badly of you just because you are a man or sympathizing with them, then this game is not for you. And if you had a great love for the characters and the story of the previous game then you will be sick.
6523) This is a real tragedy, a complete disrespect to all the beloved characters and fans of the first videogame. This is just a contest for who can be the most unlikeable character... It's full of forced plot twists and lazy flashbacks that literally happen for no comprehensible reason at all.,Neil Druckmann and Hayley Gross will go down as the most incompetent writers of the whole videogame industry.
6524) The game does little to meaningfully develop the story, and concepts that the first game had so artfully woven together. The narrative of enduring such a bitter environment in a somehow nonetheless wholesome relationship is immediately destroyed with the death of the original protagonist Joel. The only thematic concept or idea touched upon in the game is revenge, and if murder can be justified, or understood in certain circumstances. The story shifts from the wholesome relationship that developed in the first game, one that was ominously beautiful, although tinged with lingering bitterness, and opened many questions in the end. The relationship was relatable, and displayed how beautiful the manifestation of human affection can be between two characters who are otherwise sharply contrasted in their dispositions, and character. I cannot even mention the agenda the game pushes down your throat without people thus declaring all of my opinions null, and titling me a "bigot". Hey, remember the first game, in which Bill was gay? And how in the DLC Ellie had a lesbian relationship with Riley? I loved those games. Want to know why, because the characters, and actions meaningfully connected to the wholesome relationships portrayed in the first game, and developed different thematic ideas that the player could question. The second game doesn't do that, and it barely strays from the concept of revenge. They threw in a flimsy ending to feign a moral high-ground, and character development from Ellie -- that'd she'd grown from the violence she was inclined to. This is ridiculous from a narrative perspective. She'd never been inclined to violence, or willing to commit violence with a subsequent clear conscience. She'd broken down when talking to Joel near the hospital, following the giraffe scene; exclaiming that she felt that she should in fact die for "Everything we've been through -- everything that I've done." Remember the scene in which the AMV shot down the two civilians with the operators of the AMV looting the people, to which Ellie subsequently expressed remorse at not being able to help them? Remember when she'd saved Joel and said she'd felt sick. Think about that. She felt sick even knowing that what she was doing was saving his life. With the blossoming relationship with loose ends that needed to be tied now so detestably stripped in the second game, they had to touch upon revenge, and introduce different characters to fill the place (that left even greater plot-holes and logical gaps within the procession of the story). Joel, and Ellie's convoluted, and still relatable dispositions were stripped to more base reactions, and responses in the story that stripped their seemingly vivid personal aspects to carry on such a poorly constructed narrative. Ellie was never inclined to violence, even after a traumatic event (as after the Winter chapter with David upon almost being raped, she'd still never felt inclined to carry out a brutal mission for revenge. She did kill her attacker, and one could claim with excessive force, but she'd immediately regretted it, and demonstrated growth afterwards). They completely changed her character to fit such a tired and shallow plot, made Joel act in contrast to his decades of experience surviving against any threats, falsely advertised the game by implying that Joel would be around for a substantial period of time, and tries to virtue signal by throwing in what is assumedly a transgender antagonist (claim that those who dislike the game are transphobic, or homophobic when the game portrays a trans girl as the genuine antagonist/villain in the story. Have fun working out that paradox). Ellie goes on a brutal mission, killing multiple people now, just for her to once again at the end demonstrate that "oh killing/revenge = bad" as if that's a valid conclusion, and sufficient character development when that concept had been expressed a multiplicity of times in the first game. People wanted the relationship between father and daughter, and the rich characters. They completely missed the mark in this laughable sequel. My advice: watch the flashback segments on Youtube, they're the only redeeming narrative developments in the story, and consider those short segments the epilogue of the first game. They had to have paid the prominent figures who reviewed the game a lot to try and justify giving the game a 10/10, and putting it on the same scale as the first game, and as amazing products such as God of War 4. I wanted to believe it was prejudice against the game, and concepts that caused such a surplus of negativity. It isn't. The game is genuinely that horrid. Save yourself the $60, and the time, and steer clear from this game. I am forgetting that this game existed, and will live off of the first game, and the DLC, and maybe the flashback segments. Neil Druckmann should be fired after such a miserable destruction of a beloved story.
6525) Even graphics are bad if you played GOW. Holes in the history. Lot of movie scenes little gameplay. The 0 rate is for ruining my best game memory.  The people here already commented the rest.
6526) So many years of waiting for this? Why would you subject your playerbase to so much pain, just to tell a story that appeals to god knows whom. Definitely not getting myself TLOU 3 if that ever comes out!
6527) this game is like the bloody cough that indicates a severe illness.,Joel is suddenly a dumb ****,ellie has a completely different persona as well.,its basically new characters wearing familiar faces.,its design is psychopathic, they force your hand to do things that you don't want to, and then berate you for doing it. the story feels like a gruesome video someone shared on social media and you regret watching because you can  never unsee it.,so besides having TLOU setting it has very little relevance to the original.,it seems the recipe they went by had 5 spoons of Woke extract and they just dumped the whole bag in.,it has gorgeous graphics!!!! great job to the art team!.,but all it makes it is a golden middle finger,what a trash fire.,avoid it...  hell avoid even if its free
6528) The story was so horrible, they completely destroy the characters of the first installment, they also do not respect the established. In the curcial moments we have no option to decide.
6529) Garbage story Medicare graphics,Fools characters Just ruined all good memories in the first game with this silly story
6530) I feel sorry for the developers who worked a lot, but the plot is completely failed.
6531) The visuals in this game are magnificent. It's sad that they build up such a masterpiece in the first game but they decided to threw it away with this **** sequel. I hope this teaches Naughty dog a lesson on how not to treat their fans by trying to go "edgy".
6532) Good gameplay and good graphic but the story and plot are really really bad it's all about LGBTQ+
6533) Very preachy and politically driven narrative. Secondly, there's some serious bait and switch tactics going on here. Also, what's with the clunky gameplay? Didn't they learn anything from RDR2's criticisms where gameplay took a back seat to animations? TLOU2 clearly has paid off review scores, and I even heard that they may start censoring user reviews. This is unacceptable.
6534) Such a disappintment. Broken and unredemable. Better to just play the first game again.
6535) That story must be the worst I have ever seen. Never experienced so many plot holes and forced leftist/sjw nonsense in any form of entertainment. Really hurts to give this game such a bad rating considering the fact that I truly loved the predecessor and was looking forward to this one just to be utterly disappointed.
6536) Just bad story in story-oriented game. Such a shame, really. Gameplay is still slightly below average
6537) I’ve been trying to express my opinion for days.  I wonder if it was a glowing, positive review if it would be accepted.,I won’t talk about the story, only to say that where the first game was a narrative masterpiece, this game is revoltingly weak in its narrative.  At a time when Sony censored Japanese games with an anime style that dares to expose midriffs, here they are fully happy to endorse nonconsensual sex and torture that should really give this game an Adult rating. The puzzle elements and set piece encounters that made the first installment so memorable are gone.  Replaced with the opportunity to kill doggos as graphically as possible. The story is weak, cliche, and political. The gameplay is watered down. The graphics are the only positive in the experience.  Save yourself some heartache and play a game that was made to be /fun/. Maybe a nice golfing simulator.
6538) They killd joel and i want to revenge his death but you can't stupid story the writer should hang his self what waste of money and time
6539) Too much political and SJW interference. I liked the background and music. Many choices are just unfair and leads to a political agenda.
6540) Storyline is rubbish. I can’t connect myself to the characters and the game is just going forward and backwards. I felt empty at the end. First one is brilliant with a lots of humour and relationship development but this second one it’s full of hatred and dark.
6541) this is bad really bad naughty dog ,, the story is bad ,, the graphic is been downgraded
6542) This game is nothing but disgusting.,Only recommend for those who want to play golf and can't find a great golf game.
6543) And with this one game, big name journalists (IGN, Polygon, VG24/7, Eurogamer etc) if their reputations in recent years weren't already badly damaged and reduced to the court jesters of gaming journalism, their fate is sealed by a once loved franchise. How did it all go so badly wrong for The Last Of Us 2? Visuals: one of the few redeeming features, the visuals are very good, coupled with sound effects, the animations make killing enemies and such hold more weight than before. Motion capture of faces and lip sync are no issue, all done well as is the voice acting. Sound effects: Again not where the game faulters, the music; often ambient or acoustic is typical of apocalyptic narratives nowadays, for instance The walking dead series. Voice acting is mostly believable, and weapons etc haven't been lazily done. Gameplay: this is where things start to get a tad shaky, the gameplay is reminiscent of the first game a decade or more ago, it's not fast paced action, there's different pacing mixed between some exploration and scantily clad puzzle solving that's weaker and more basic than the first game. Mostly linear sections where you're encouraged to use stealth or distraction to move past or take down enemies. The formula though ok is a bit dated even with all the nice visuals and animations. Storyline: And this is where it all falls to pieces for different reasons. Firstly, what was the first game? An endearing father/daughter like relationship through a dark and hopeless world, with moments of humour or light shone in from Ellie and the few loveable characters. No agenda, no desperation to gain brownie points from certain social activists or groups. Just a story anyone can get behind and enjoy. What has this game done? It's for the most part distanced itself from that winning formula, no attempt to build upon or improve it, one of the most beloved of two characters feels the ramifications of this. The new characters aren't loveable and interesting this time around. The storyline boils down to a cheap soap opera, and the awful direction it goes, the cringe that befalls it, the destruction of a lovely chemistry between two great characters that people simply wanted to see built upon. It's all gone to pave the way for a social justice agenda, for the gain of brownie points, for multiple gay but somehow also bi characters with a bonus diversity character. And it's a colossal disaster. Sarkeesian being involved along with the questionable new director (Druckmann) were a big red flag, all but confirmed by various leaks and studio employees apparently being removed for questioning the bizarre story direction. There's also a distasteful and appalling scene I won't allude to for spoilers sake that appears to involve Druckmann (the game's now director) himself, or a very bizarre likeness to them; as placed within the game as a character. This scene also highlights Sony's appalling hypocrisy on censorship of more innocent nude in other titles, not even sex scenes like this. Then before the review embargo, 10/10 from already questionable journalists, with the knowledge Sony strictly prohibited much of the game being reviewed; namely the parts that players were worried about. But it turns out most of this was all true, and the game does have  pretty awful, agenda driven story, that tries to hide behind the guise of a cheap revenge flick porn. The original game managed to make Ellie's sexuality feel very natural, no LED neon arrows above it, and not a main feature of the story and game, just purely natural design choice. This game manages to make every LGBTQ/SJW topic feel as fake and forced for brownie points and pandering, as Katie Prices chest. And it really detracts from immersion, throw in the poor storyline, shallow characters and somewhat dated mechanics, and you have real heavy fall from grace. There isn't even and choice given at key moments, you're forced to watch it painfully unfurl. The best option is to keep the memory of the first game and leave it there, don't soil it (and soiled it will certainly be) by playing this disappointment of the this gen of gaming.,Verdict: Don't let this £50 disappointment destroy the great memory of the last of us 1, keep it's agenda addled and paultry story telling away from you, and maybe Naughty Dog, developers and journalists will realize this same formula of forcing unnatural elements into games for agenda's sake, will simply destroy a company.
6544) All I can say. Is that I am disgraced by how they killed the beloved Joel. And that they destroyed the foundation of the game. The story line.
6545) the climax of The Last of Us, a blockbuster 2013 video game that is superficially about a zombie-fungus apocalypse but is really about the lengths a parent will go to protect a child, you are forced to kill a doctor. This doctor is not a threat. He stands there limply, holding a scalpel, so technically he’s not unarmed — but you’ve got a gun and the gameplay has made it clear, after hours of close fighting, that your character could subdue the man peacefully if he wanted.,Video games are constructed around choice, and when I played the game for the first time, I expected one here. A lot of games, including highly ambitious ones, present you at various points with a kill-the-guy/don’t-kill-the-guy binary, allowing you to shape at least a part of your character’s morality. At this juncture of The Last of Us, however, there was nothing but a glaring lack of alternatives. The only way to move the story forward — and reach an ending in which I’d already invested 14 emotionally debilitating hours — was to murder the pleading doctor while his colleagues screamed “No!” and
6546) As for gameplay and graphic level The last of us 2 is very good but the story of this is **** and even more so its end.
6547) The graphics, gameplay, and music is excellent. Just like the previous game but the story doesn't follow the first last of us. It's completely different and the agenda behind the story is very obvious. In so many word, the story was horrible.
6548) Writing is terrible and rushed, and just honestly a giant political statement instead of a well thought out story. Shame too, Last of Us 2 was something most everyone was looking towards.
6549) Seriously no explanation needed for this low score. Naughty Dog totally ruined this GAME ID..
6550) wow it's amazing,,I love Sjw so much,,they broken my dream,,i'm so happy happyyyyy
6551) The only point im giving for this game is for its BEAUTIFUL enviroment. The game itself is well made, don't take me wrong (ignoring AI, of course, because, they are still dumb), but the story is God-awful. It is a lazy piece of work where the writers thought, that playing with the shock factor is the only way to go. The story is bland with no flavor. Overall, this game is a good example of a terrible screenwriting, and pushing your own agenta in the face of a customer.
6552) You don't end the life of one of your best characters in that way, at least do it WELL and NOT WITH A NEW CHARACTER WHO WE WILL NEVER SIMPATHIZE WITH! I'm very disappointed, I HAD FAITH on this game.
6553) Bad writing, couldn't even get the revenge plot done right by the ending, and disrespected every single character from the first game that appears here like they meant nothing.
6554) Good graphics and animations, but gameplay... not so good, very boring. Story is full of SJW-trash cliche aspects and propaganda. Characters is so 2D like a piece of paper in emotions and motivations.,This game is ruined my expectations about franchise and I'll never buy anything from (SJW)Dogs studio.
6555) This is probably the most disappointing realease of the year. The story was fine how it ended in TLoU, they didn't needed to **** things up this hard.
6556) Lazy writing for story based game,Gameplay has no actual improvement from the previous installment,Not worth the money at all, just another one of those overhypep game with lots of marketing
6557) terrible plot,they destroyed the characters and their story just for the sake of an agenda
6558) I haven't been so disappointed in my life.. even more than I was with anthem..and that's bad on the scale of bad games.. I don't care if the graphics are amazing it's nothing new..most of this console generation games have great graphics that doesn't mean anything if the game story is bad..worst 50 dollars I've ever spent ..I wouldn't recommend playing it unless it's free and you have nothing else to do,When u make a sequel for a game..u expect it to match the gamers expectations.because they are the ones buying it..and u failed to do so. If u wanna change the game so bad go and make a new game ..don't make a sequel and ruin the legend that was made with this ****
6559) Dont listen to the POS shills this game has garbage writing and constant time skips that try and cope for reasons to make you feel sorry for sh!tty characters.
6560) Please recommend this game to your enemies. Where did the great story of the old work disappear?
6561) Horrible, the story was straight up garbage and they killed off Joel for **** and giggles just to jerk their "revenge is BADDDDDD" troupe. Refunded the game
6562) This is an insult to the users who loved the first game.,I rather hoped a new stage and story would begin
6563) 0/0 This game is a joke,,I actually laughing when Elly trying play guitar with 3 three fingers,,Racist game ever
6564) This is the most terrible entertainment experience to me. Movie, book, series... etc. do not spend money to this junk. Also Sony lied to everyone with trailers, with director omg these are so sad.
6565) N D! they **** my sad but praying for hope journey with me, Joel and Ellie.
6566) Everything felt so forced and didn't seem to represent anything of what the first one created it felt like such an abomination that leeched off the first games popularity what a joke the developers became, Very saddened about how boring everything about this game was
6567) Words cant describe how disappointed i am... it is nothing like the first game,,they have destroyed the "the last of us" legacy
6568) Very bland , very linear , combat/gameplay seems worse , ai definetly not improved. Story makes no sense , characters act facepalm.,,Only + graphic upgrade and visuals.
6569) Killed the series. Pretty much like the writers blatantly wanted to burn this series to the ground. Whether you believe theres a political lens' placed on the game or not, the story just spat in the faces of fans. No need to buy this one. Take everything you remember from the first one with how crazy cautious the characters were, now throw that out the window and replace them with fools. Really sad excuse for a story. Terrible.
6570) Took everything u loved and ruined it, they did it to star wars, they did it to star trek, and now its found its way into gaming too.
6571) Ehough the lgbt **** in games. not gonna spend even a cent. The Last of Hope is CyberPunk 2077
6572) Yes, I am so disappointed. Laggy motions, blur graphic which hurt my eyes. Most importantly, the main story line is too shallow and unreasonable.  Boss fights are so boring and game pace is really slow because map is huge and most dark scenes, you cant find your way w/o mini map that are main reasons to slow you down.,So, best and wise advice. Don't buy it. You wait for 2 weeks, and then spent $20 on beers and chips, and watch the whole game-play through on youtube or whatever the sources are. Enjoy!
6573) Look how they massacred my boy... Congrats, Neil!  You've done well. I mean you must have a talent to create such a game like this.
6574) I play Videogames for 30 years, and one of my top 10 games ever was last of us.,I loved Elli and Joel and their story.,No words for that second part, its unbelievable how this game went, i am so sad...Elli and Joel died in the end of Last of Us part 1.,Looks like someone spent a lot of money to get thos positive review from media, its clearly not possible to give this goreporn game 100 points.....or even 70!
6575) The story is just so bad. Why do that to Joel?,Joel’s character and story is the main reason I liked the game.
6576) you messed this one up, the only reason i bought this game is because i liked the 1st one and i appreciate the teams hardwork and would like them to get paid for their effort, not the directors and top level decision makers, neil druckmann should retire.
6577) we don't need to know creators sex genders cuz it's just a game for fun not for make some one happy this is not the real last of us remake the story ...
6578) Just a terrible story, terribly boring and drawn out, does not catch in any way, disgusting!
6579) in this game shows that graphics are not everything but also need a good story
6580) This game just killed of the whole plot that part 1 had been going between the bond between ellie and joel,just for them to kill off this character in the most dumb **** way,they even changed his **** personality,he was uneasy about any stranger yet in p 2 he decides nah everything its good lemme go with them,then trans senator Armstrong kills him and its the most pathetic revenge story,also why is there a character that looks like Neil and **** Armstrong?,This game is just a bad expensive joke and every so called "reviewer" and "gaming  experts" should **** off and let us the gamers review the game instead of blatantly lying to us their customers.
6581) Bad story, bad ai, bad gameplay. Disappointment of the year. The only good thing is the visual component, it’s beautiful.
6582) Hate that story... I still can't believe how naughty dog ​​can ruin it like this. officially garbage game.
6583) After 10H .. I couldn't go any further with it and there is nothing good about this junk garbage trash story .. not worth trying even for a single dollar even if the gameplay is good this will not relieve the stupidity of the story  .. the worst game you will ever play .. .. save your money and time for something worth .. Neil .. We do not wish to see you again in the games industry ..
6584) "Ellie is the only playable character in the game". -Neil Druckmann,,"That was false advertising." -Fans of the first game.
6585) Gameplay is okay, not much of an improvement from the first. Graphics are good, environments look fantastic but the people look a little off, the motion capture is pretty uncanny-valley. Story and characters are so bad it ruins any goodwill the gameplay brought, nobody is likable in any sense and nothing MAKES any sense. Weird forced political stuff is annoying. Can't see myself buying anymore games by this company, this is the biggest disappointment I've ever had from a video game.
6586) Plot 0/10 in a narrative driven game, with boring game play and great graphics. Didn't learn from the mistakes of the latest Star Wars trilogy. Shock value over respecting characters. Forced LGBT agendas that add nothing.,Don't ruin your fond memories of the first one.
6587) The game promotes the advancement of modern degenerative political movements.,,Because of such people, our society and our planet are degrading more and more.
6588) Save some money, let developers see the point, and leave this trash out. Is CD-Project, From Software, Santa monica and a pile of good ass indies all we have left?
6589) Boring, I don't like propaganda! This game imposes those values that are not close to me, does it in an aggressive form, I'm not against people of any orientation, but that would be so fiercely served, no thanks! "Thank you" so much for Anita Sarkisian's personal contribution!
6590) Piece of **** Naughty dog make the worst game of this generation! I'm really disappointed!
6591) Pure nonsensical trash ..avoid..creator didn't give a damn about the original and took a c*** on fans
6592) This game is a pale shadow of the first one. Bad scenario and SJW agenda. Annoying gameplay and no new mechanics.
6593) Ok let me say this, killing a character which has been potentially the best part of series at 2 hours mark of game is a very worst decision someone could take. It's so pathetic game i can't believe i bought it. I don't believe how some  bad decision can someone make when making a game.
6594) This game's story is a great way of showing how to kill an IP. Making a sequel for SJWs who won't even play the game & spitting in the face of the already established fanbase from the original is a mind boggling move.
6595) the story is bad, bad plot, bad character and also the death of a certain person was not necessary
6596) This game is like an open wound that just wont seal up because the player is forced to unnaturally shove all sorts of objects in said wound in hopes that the bloody hole will magically repurpose itself into something that will never physically be possible. It's awful, wrong, embarrassing and frankly, disgusting.
6597) This game is **** sorry it pushes a gender without limits there spitting on the first game im out
6598) This review has a couple of spoilers for games other than TLOU2,WHAT. THE. ****,WHAT IN THE ACTUAL **** NAUGHTY DOG?!?!?!?!?! THE PLOT IS A PIECE OF ****ING **** SOME ****ING GORILLA SMASHES JOEL AND TOMMY'S HEADS INTO A ****ING BLOOD PORRIDGE, THE WHOLE GAME WE HUNT AFTER THAT XUNT AND IN THE ****ING END AFTER MEETING HER WE LET. HER. GO. LET HER ****ING GO. YOU ARE TELLING ME THAT KILLING EVERYONE'S FAVORITE CHARACTER BY SOME NEW RANDOM CHARACTER IS COOL, GOING AFTER HER THE WHOLE GAME IS COOL, BUT LEAVING HER ALIVE IN THE ****ING END IS COOLER. IMAGINE KILLING ARTHUR MORGAN IN THE MIDDLE OF RDR2 AS MICAH, THEN PLAYING THE WHOLE GAME AS MICAH, AND IN THE END SEEING JOHN MARSTON FORGIVE MICAH AND LET MICAH HAVE A WONDERFUL LIFE. OR IMAGINE SWITCHING TO MAURICE, KILLING AIDAN PIERCE AND THEN HAVING A HAPPY ****ING END. LIKE YARE YARE ****ING DAZE, AM I FURIOUS. YES, I AM FURIOUS, IN FACT I AM ENRAGED, PETRIFIED BY THE ****TINES OF THIS PLOT. I AM SO HAPPY THE PLOT GOT LEAKED. THE MAN LEAKING IT IS A HERO. I REALLY HOPE THIS GAME IS A FINANCIAL DISASTER, BECAUSE FROM A STORY PERSPECTIVR, IT IS A GOD DAMN ONE. I AM SOOOOOO DISAPPOINTED I CAN NOT RATE -16... I AM REALLY SORRY FOR WHAT YOU HAVE DONE TO JOEL ABD ELLIE. IN FACT I LOVE JOEL SO MUCH I'VE NAMED MY PENCIL SHARPENER AFTER HIM. FIST AND ****ING LAST TIME I NAMED AN INANIMATE OBJECT. HOW THE **** DOES THIS PLOT WORK? YEAH, SURE, JOEL CHOSE ELLIE OVER THE WOLRD. BUT THAT'S BULL****, NEIL. WHAT THE **** DID THE WORLD DO FOR JOEL, HUH?! KILL HIS DAUGHTER, BEST FRIEND AND A ****ING LOT OF PEOPLE HE CARED ABOUT, MADE HIM SMUGGLE **** FOR A LIVING AND THEN HAVE THE GIRL THAT CAME IN THE PLACE OF HIS DAUGHTER ****ING KILLED FOR THOSE WHO GAVE NOT A SINGLE ****ING **** ABOUT HIM??? **** THE WORLD. IT HAS GONE TO **** THE PEOPLE THAT SURVIVED-SURVIVED BECAUSE THEY WERE HARDER TO KILL, BETTER, FASTER, STRONGER, SMARTER. AND THE ONES THAT ARE WALKERS ARE ****ING DEAD BAGS OF **** WALKING TO KILL AND EAT. THEY HAVE THEIR BRAINS TURNED INTO A ****ING MUSHROOM, WHAT ARE  YOU EXPECTING TO DO, POUR SOME MAGIC ****ING GEL MADE OUT OF ELLIE'S ANTIBODIES ON THE FUNGI SO THAT IT REPLACES THE BRAIN, THE EXPERIENCE, THE KNWOLEDGE, EVERY-****ING-THING??? THAT **** SO MESSED UP EVEN CRAZY DIAMOND REQUIEM WOULD'T BE ABLE TO BRING IT BACK TO ****ING NORMAL. BUT YEAH SURE CALL ME HOMOPHOBIC, RACIST, EGOISTIC OR WHATEVER IN THE **** YOU CALL PEOPLE WITH A BIT OF COMMON ****ING SENSE,I am sorry for all of this toxicity and rage i put you through, but i just could not keep it in me,Please, call back all of the copies, rewrite the plot and then sell the game. It might cost more, but at least you will not put both the game franchise's reputation and the companies reputation and financial situation. Is it better to fund 10 mils in the game and have a revenue of 5k, or fund 25 mils and have a revenue of 100 mils? Keep in mind, that sucking all this pseudo-equality movement's asses is not worth it. Do not say **** you" to the community that loves you. I am so glad you ended Uncharted before you raped Nathan Drake's name
6599) Tlou2 is the best golf game that you can't ever imagine,just save your money and buy something else,unlest you want to play golf.
6600) to take everything we loved about the 1st game and then trow it all away, go on a revenge story, kill more than 80 people all for nothing. the ending destroyed this game. it was all for nothing.
6601) I hope this is not the future of gaming. Besides all of the SJW **** the game was good at the beginning. But when the Abby Story line began the game was starting to fall down and even further down. The ending was an absolute slap in the face for every fan. Abbys storyline is not interesting at all and its half of the game.... An absolute deserved 0/10,Everybody whos says this game is a 10/10 I have one question. What game did you play?,This game does not deserve a higher rating than Witcher 3. Absolute trash
6602) The Last of Us Part II overwhelmingly disappoints . I'm not angry because of what happened to the story or game play, but disappointed in the overall experience as well as the choices in how they presented characters, new and old. I wish they would have left the series where it was with the first game, as it is a masterpiece, and that they would have never destroyed such a meaningful story that had touched so many people.
6603) this is not story this is a really bad game for 70€   i need my mony back you ...don't buy the game if you like the last of us part 1
6604) "Vengeance is an idiot’s game",,-Arthur Morgan,,If you played the game you know what I’m talking about
6605) Absolutely abismal game. A shame that  the characters were treated so poorly. Please do not buy this game and fall for the critic reviews. Every copy of this game purchased is reassuring naughty dog of people falling for this crap just because of the name and company behind the game.
6606) **** on the writing of the first story. The only thing that would’ve slightly redeemed Joel’s death is if we could’ve **** up abbi but we can’t. Good graphics and everything but overall **** writing. Absolutely atrocious compared to the charm of the first game.
6607) They killed the story, therefore they killed the game. I'm very disappointed.
6608) Garbage and a complete disappointment we waited 7 years for this????? Honestly never ever buying a game from naughty dog if its made by neil
6609) I gave it a chance, my expectations were low but damn they found a new low I didnt know existed
6610) poor history, lacration, mimimi generation, bad gameplay, cancelamento generation
6611) A pointless exercise in brutal violence. Ellie got robbed: No real interaction with Joel, basically turned into a homicidal maniac and then ends the game alone and abandoned...basically it's a game that **** on the legacy of the first by pretending to be deep and emotional. This is the Last Jedi of video games.
6612) After finishing this game i understand why everyone is giving low grades. And now i too am going to give it 0 because of the ending.
6613) The way they killed Joel was so disrespectful and Abby is the most dislikable character naughty dog made yet
6614) Absolutely disgusting follow up to the game I loved. Wow this was over quick, when they killed Joel the main protagonist right off the bat. I had looked forward to playing this belowed character again, and was instead forced to play his despicable murderer, which I hated so much I just couldn't take it. I wanted to blow this disgusting character up with a shotgun, not play her/him, wasn't it supposed to be about revenge? Life is too short for this **** I logged off in disgust and deleted the game. Never buying a game from Naughty Dog again.
6615) while the original the last of us was a blast to play with a very engaging story, this long await sequel is a utter disappointment in most ways apart from the graphics. I’d advise buying the game when it goes on sale.
6616) Boring and dumb,there is no game in there. Just a number of different agendas
6617) Look how they massacred ma boi. I had a hope that the leak gameplay were fake, but wth, it was exactly the same **** that we saw. Do not buy it, it is a waste of f time
6618) Betrayal of fans of the first game and another attempt to force something down our throats. A sick twisted vision of people who can't write and confuse pain and shock with good writing. This game is made by talentless hacks. You will find nothing of the first game in this one. Save yourself the money.
6619) Really disappointed at this game, it would be a waste of money and time to own this. Wouldn't accept this even as a gift.
6620) Last of us 1 was my favorite game, truly a master piece. After waiting 7 years I have never been more disappointed in my gaming life. Game has terrible pacing, characterization & story telling. Gameplay remains almost identical to the first game w/ no major changes. Your better off just watching a let’s play and saving $60. Two hours into the game I didn’t even want to play anymore. The back half of the game is honestly boring and has one of the worst endings i have seen in a long time. It’s like they forgot why the 1st game was so successful in the first place. This is probably honestly a 5/10 ,but Naughty Dog deserves to get review bombed for this disappointment.
6621) TLOU 1 better part, this - bul**hit and i hate this game and developers #alllivesmatter
6622) Because the game developers want to accept their dirty agendas such as homosexuality and feminism and insert them into societies and transform the game story from a game that simulates parenting to a game of sex, violence and killing.
6623) I played 60$ for this game and thought it was gonna be good Until I heard about the leaks,The way they kill beloved characters in such **** way this ruined naughty dog's reputation Dont buy it
6624) This game is an insult to the masterpiece that is the first game. The idea of Joel dying was something I figured would happen in the sequel since it is necessary to close his character arc imo. However, Naughtydog executed it very very poorly. The ending is very anticlimactic and makes no sense and straight up pisses on the first game. The brilliant people that worked on this game such as Troy Baker, Ashley Johnson and Laura Bailey did not deserve their characters to be treated this poorly. The gameplay, graphics and acting are even better than in the first game, but the story is written by an analphabetic sloth called Neil Druckman who should never be allowed to write another work of fiction ever again. Druckman should go straight back to writing academy together with Dave and Dan from Game of Thrones.,,TLDR: Gamplay 10/10. Graphics 10/10. Acting 10/10. Writing -30/10.,,Petition to glue Neil Druckman to a tree and leave him there? I'll start one.
6625) Just don't waste your money on this piece of junk.,You played Joel like a tool. The motivation of Abby is nonsense, and the portrait of Abby is also a piece of **** yet you don't even allow the player to revenge properly with Ellie.
6626) Gameplay and graphics really impressive, but the story is the main thing in the last of us... and they destroy it.
6627) Disgusting storyline! Ruined the franchise! You should be ashamed of yourself Mr Niel. Joel deserved much better. The plot was senseless
6628) Bad story, good graphics its not wat i expected, too much wait for nothing interesting
6629) this game sucks. no factions. horrible story. ruin the whole point of the first game
6630) So they canceled Jak 4 for this garbage .... don’t get me wrong graphics are beyond amazing the story is beyond **** boring. If I could go back in time I would tell myself at least 7 years it wouldn’t be worth it
6631) Rip this is cheesy cracker, butt I don’t know what heck is like it I don’t even know why bruh
6632) Why sabotage this masterpiece?,Don't impose your opinion on me. Thank you for this garbage!!
6633) Created an account to just negatively review this game. Thanks for possibly doing one of the worst sequels seen in gaming that I can remember.
6634) Trash game, SJW nightmare, in my mind this garbage never existed, i hope naughty dog go broke for this, Neil Druckmann i hope you get fired.
6635) It's legitimately the worst game ever made, in fact calling this a game is kind of silly, since it isn't actually suited to the medium.  It should have just been a **** unpleasant movie instead of an unpleasant game. Don't buy this atrocity.
6636) flat and boring characters. horribly written story, boring game play. don't pick this up expecting it to be anything like the first one.
6637) Stop shoving down your retardded ideology down our good game's throat, it's very forceful as fans feel complete distaste for what you just did to this storyline
6638) Before I go into detail, I’ll give some positive  words about the game. The graphics are amazing they’re realistic and everything about the game is visually stunning. The mechanics are an improvement from the first game but tries to stay loyal with the previous mechanic system used in the first game. There’s no problems with the gameplay. My problems with this game is how terribly written it is. Keep in mind I don’t care if there’s LGBT people in this game. The problem is the characters make decisions that are just completely out of character in the perspective of the audience, it just doesn’t sense to us. After surpassing the part where an important character meets his end, I was confused. I didn’t have a problem with him dying but I had a problem with how he died. It seems like he didn’t matter and his death served no real purpose to the game. I still don’t understand the overall theme, I heard it’s about letting go of revenge. That doesn’t make sense.... It’s a weak plot. In a world overrun by a deadly virus and tribalism, revenge is more of a motivation than a burden. If anything if revenge was something I wanted...The ending is incredibly underwhelming and makes me feel the hours I spent on it wasn’t worth it. I don’t care if a game has amazing graphics and great mechanics. If the story is terribly written then it’s not worth playing. This game isn’t even playable the first time, I had to force myself. You can’t play this game more than once. I will be returning my copy right now actually. This is the last time I buy a Naughty Dog game. As a huge fan of the Last Of Us part 1, I bought the game on ps3 and ps4. Played them multiple times and played the online portion. Although, the game was always great because of its good story telling. Waiting 7 years and I’m dissatisfied and disappointed. Who is making these decisions? Don’t they have writers at Naughty Dog? If they had 7 years, that was more than enough time to polish a game, there’s no excuse. Whoever is in charge of this game needs to be held responsible and Naughty Dog need to own up to their mistakes rather than attacking their customers and disrespecting them for not liking their low quality product. In my eyes, the Last of Us ended with the first game, the second never happened....
6639) The start of the game its actually good but it starts getting bad when the game forces you to create empathy with a trash character and also forces you to play 10h of the game with this character
6640) Game feels bugged , lacking history and not well designed . Characters were changed, like old Joel to less old joel
6641) oh I love it so much,the best golf simulator in history,it's definitely the game you MUST-PLAY : )
6642) Spoilers,The positive reviewers like to act like they are making good points when arguing why Joel was meant to die. No one disagrees Joel deserved to die, he was never established as a morally good character and he made a selfish decision which condemned the human race. No one is angry Joel died we are angry about how he died. My take on this would be much different if we were introduced to Abby long before she brutally murders Joel. They set them self up with an insurmountable task of creating empathy for Abby. And they didn't even try, we got a ten minute scene where she saves a Zebra with her father then they reveal Abby is the person who convinced them Ellie should be murdered to save humanity. If the writers are trying to make the player empathize with Abby why would they establish her as the one who condemned Ellie which inevitably led to Joel killing her father?,,Later on in the story we are introduced to Lev who saves Abbys life.  This prompts Abby to betray the wolves to save Lev. This decision of Abbys feels like a fruitless attempt by the writers to establish Abby as a morally good character in order to gain empathy from the audience. They're trying to define Abby as selfless contrary to her making numerous selfish decisions. It's hard to say anything for certain about Abby's character because every other decision is conflicting. One moment she is selfless the next she is selfish. When it comes to condemning Ellie her morals are for the good of the many but when it comes to saving Lev her morals are for the good of the few. She gets very angry when she finds out Ellie has killed her friends yet she's already betrayed these friends and was prepared to leave these friends behind to help Lev.,,The story overall is nonsensical and revolves around and characters literally abandoning and losing everything in a fruitless quest for revenge. Both Abby and Ellie quite literally sacrificed everything over avenging the deaths of two people in a world where everyone has lost someone. Death and violence is around almost every corner of this world. Yet for whatever reason these two people are so special our characters travel thousands of miles killing hundreds to enact their revenge. Even after watching the bond which is formed between Joel and Ellie in the first game I have a hard time believing that Joel's death was enough to bring on this murderous rampage. Especially after Joel and Ellie’s rough relationship has been established.,,This world isn't the same world we were put into in the first game. There is no hope in this world, there is only violence and sadness. The violence is so over the top that by the end of the game I was completely numb to it all. The game heavily relies on shock value that was brought about through overly violent and grotesque actions perpetrated towards beloved characters which was so overly used it left me feeling nothing when the game came to it's final conclusion and this mattered the most.  At no point were we given any sort of relief or loving character development which gave us respite from the sadness and violence of this world previously. In the first game Ellie provided 90% of this relief from the awful world we were witnessing. But she is now a shadow of her former self, despite spending her years safe and sheltered in a settlement with electricity she has completely lost the spark we saw in the first game. The conclusion of the game is hollow, hundreds die in this needless revenge plot and one singular person being saved who the player has established no empathy for is supposed to bring meaning to all the meaningless violence.
6643) This game is a perfect example of critics pushing it because it serves a progressive liberal agenda, regardless of whether it's good or not. The game takes everything good from the first game and throws it  down the drain.
6644) Good graphics and details but this is a story oriented game so basically due to all these out of character behavior and the meaningless death I would give a 0.
6645) Ruined everything good about the first game, killed off your favourite characters and made everyone gay because that's what happens in the apocalypse right, this game is a joke
6646) A horrible story. The story is so bad it’s unbelievable. Killing Joel was a bad move, then Ellie goes and kills a bunch of WLF, Jesse dies, then when you’re about to kill Abby, you let her go! What type of **** is that? The story is super sloppy and messy. I couldn’t even bring myself to continue playing the game. The only good part is the environment and the graphics. Story is utter dog ****
6647) Movie theater simulator. Horrible sorry with even worse gameplay this game had the potential to be great but instead it was ruined with the new characters and many more flaws
6648) This game is not worth your time or money. Bland and boring game that does not innovate at all. It's full of cutscenes that don't make sense, making the game feel longer when it doesn't really have a deep or impressive storyline. You'll find yourself watching cutscenes more often than playing, and when you play, it's obviously scripted, giving the player no freedom of choice or a chance to do whatever you want. I can't forget the mediocre story that has nothing to do with the first game and ends up giving the impression that Naughty Dog did not care about what the players would think, but only worried about how much money the game would generate for them using leftovers and reusing many mechanics and gameplay from the first game. I do not recommend this game, it is better to save that money for something decent.
6649) For the whole game, I was confused. It was mindless and just kept going, throughout the game I would snap out of it and ask, what the heck am I doing? Where is this? Why is this happening? At the end, it was literally worse off for every single character than when it started, why did this happen? Why did this need to exist? Gameplay was alright, but this game puts a stain on the legacy of the masterpiece of a first game.
6650) This game couldn't be more disappointing. Who thought that what happens to Joel is a good idea? Those of us who love the first game do not want the protagonists to be treated like trash.
6651) They sacrificed the first game just for the sake of shock value, this is way worse than GoT season 8.
6652) How to ruin a game: Have one of the fan favourites killed by the hand of a poorly written character nobody has ever heard about.
6653) To all those reading this DO NOT PURCHASE THIS GAME, its a spit in the face to fans and to gaming in general, that being said don't bother tweeting your dislike of this game or sharing a video on social media. Any attention this game gets whether its positive or negative is still attention.,,Simply don't buy it and move on to other games or other things you enjoy because this product is definitely not wroth your time and especially your money.
6654) Expectations were too high and this shouldn't have been a game. Maybe a movie.
6655) This game is not bad but Story killed the game-played for me. Original TLOU is much better.
6656) Joel... The worst story in a triple A videogame, this is insulting and unacceptable.
6657) It's just political propaganda and a forced narrative. The developers even said most people wouldn't like it.
6658) It is the worst thing I have seen in awhile the crazy amount of disrespect for the previous characters for a garbage character no one gives a **** about amazes me
6659) Sony lost a fan. I will never buy another console of theirs after this bull crap. They pin Christianity as a hate group. I wonder what they would do if it was Islam in it? They make gay sex scenes which is disturbing and unrealistic to say the least. The gay sexy scenes reminds me of Sony it went down the poop hole.,Christian lives matter.,I hope Xbox wins.
6660) Disappointed, I has waited for this game for seven years... The final it's horrible.
6661) i give it 0/10 cuz i am pc gamer and this game is exclusive on ps4 so i can't play it or maybe cuz i am xbox fanboy, who knows? maybe cuz i hate lesbians.
6662) I just finished the game, it's a good game in some way, but the ending it's just trash, i feel so disappointed and empty, i expected more than this.
6663) So gutted. I don’t write this with a smile on my face. I played the original 3/4 times and have long awaited the sequel. And then we get this utter junk. I’m in disbelief this is a naughty dog game. Forget about the SJW themes, that’s a detail that can be overlooked. The point is the story is poor, the animations are genuinely clunky which is so weird considering naughty dogs reputation and then the gameplay is boring and uninspiring. The story is disjointed, uninspiring, far too fast paced. This plays like a crappy tomb raider. It’s worth a rental in a year when it’s cheap but I wouldn’t advise buying it.
6664) Terrible game. sacrifices story for politics and SJW pandering, genuinely couldn’t play it after the first 3 hours. A disgrace of a sequel
6665) A minority will dismiss most or all criticism as coming from "incels" or **** or some such. Truth is, most people with some common sense recognize this narrative for what it is. Lazy writing fitted with an inclusive cast of characters with the sole purpose of signalling how virtuous of a company Naughty Dog is. Somehow the triple threat of racial minority, lesbian, AND transgender people are being pandered to for the sake of a company's greed. Congratulations, your identity is now being used for profit. Hope that feels good. It doesn't to me. Besides that, there is nothing at all interesting about the story. Same hamfisted "The Walking Dead" type of writing which uses shock value and high stakes in a poorly paced manner to try and hold your attention. Failing hard in the process.
6666) The game took a huge turn from what we expected and what the first game was about.  They kill Joel to find a reason to make a game to send you on a revenge quest. ND is normal great at making games. This just seemed so poorly made.  I can't bring myself to give it anything but a 0
6667) Expectations:,,Played the first part few days ago. Enjoyed the story, gameplay of it was not up to dates standards, but storywise there were the expectations: Lots of deep stuff between Joel and Ellie and the state where it ended was kind of tense and I really wanted to know how this continues from this.,,Reality:,,Whole game feels like standalone. It did not really continue from the ending of the part 1. Somehow all those things that were open and interesting at the end kind of disappeared. Just feels like that this was not part 2. It was just kind of same characters that are changed from the part 1 and used for "hollywood standard plot". Gameplay was almost identical or even more mundane than the part 1.,,Graphics were best I have seen, but as some streamed noted: Good graphics are kind of wasted when the game is not enjoyable itself.,,Conclusion:,,If you are looking for spiritual second part of last of us part 1. This is not it. You can think it as basic gameplay of part 1 with hollywood movie level plot and it doesnt really continue from the part 1. Its like other timeline where the personalities are different and none of the questions are rightfully answered or developed that are left after part 1.
6668) This game isn't The Last of Us, delete this please, I'll imagine for the rest of my life that this game didn't exist
6669) This is really the final straw that broke the camel's back. I just can't f***ing take this stuff anymore. It's infesting everything. It's time for Gamers to #RiseUp #WhiteBoycott
6670) Naughty Dog destroyed this franchise. The first game is my favorite video game to date but this garbage they call a game was a spit to the face of every single gamer that wanted this game. The story is horrendous and they took everything we wanted and hoped for and told us to go to hell. But hey, the graphics are good right? DO NOT PURCHASE THIS GAME IT IS A WASTE OF MONEY!
6671) Please don't waste your money on this. The whole game was a disappointing mess with bad story.
6672) The game is garbage. Here is my seventy five characters so I can confirm it.
6673) Lazy subversive storytelling with more regard for agenda pushing than character development. Any improved polish from the performance side is being unfortunately overshadowed by the needless teardown of beloved characters. Naughty Dog has themselves to blame. A single player, narrative driven game deserves far better than this.
6674) - No Multiplayer.,- No Story.,- Repetitive missions, and outdated gameplay.,- Forced agenda,- Forced To play as characters we hate for Hours.,=> I'd named it THE LAST OF US : Disgrace
6675) Ruined the game by trying to be "woke" terrible sequel devs are a waste of oxygen
6676) The game is trash, very pretty trash but trash. Trash story trash characters trash ending. Way to ruin a franchise
6677) Story does not make any sense at all. Joel is dead  and you go for the revenge and kill dozen of people and ultimately does not kill the main person (Abby) because now suddenly Ellie does not like the concept of revenge. Wow what a ending . Ruined a great game. They patch it up and atleast give us option to make choice..
6678) Probably the worst release of the new decade. Poorly written story arc, nonsensical dialog, and underwhelming gameplay. I'd rather get root canal than play again.
6679) Joel dies, gets spit on by niel duckmann who plastered himself and his ego onto a character like a **** Niel should **** kill himself, you dont even get **** revenge. **** this game. The story is ass. I ended up hating ellie no matter how much i loved her in the first one. The gameplay hasnt evolved at all, theres a few new enemy types but thats it, they pretty much just it. Weapon variety is about as new as the first game. Game looks great but as i said hasnt pushed any barriers like rdr 2 or gow 4 did. All it did was have cool graphics which even EA could have pulled off. Its a disgusting stain and. a worthless game. I guess it was memorable, in that it ruined my faveourite duo in any game. Now that honour goes back to banjo kazooie. Theres also a disgusting sex scene, that i think is gay? So Christians and muslims be wary. Its a **** show. And any gameplay you can findbin this game, you can literally find in any other shooter, without the disappointment of watching your fave game get muddled up in a political horror show.
6680) The actual game got replaced by SJWs ideas, this aint nothing but a LGBT protest inside a game to make you forcibly accept equality killing one of the most beloved character of the game, Neil CuckMAAM.. you just did the opposite what the word "equality" means, great job to damaging not only your company but Sony themselves
6681) So sad to see the sequel to such a great game take a turn in this direction.
6682) Abomination. Naughty Dog spits in the face of their fan base just like they spit on Joel. Another entertainment studio has shown their true colors that identity politics and forcing a leftist narrative is more important than creating a story that treats its characters with respect and expands the players investment into what is happening. Waste of a huge amount of money to create, and a waste of anyone’s money who purchases this game. It’s better to treat this as fan-fiction that doesn’t exist. Thank goodness for the employee that leaked so much of this dumpster-fire, I hope it spared a lot of people from experiencing  this atrocity.
6683) Don't trust the bought reviews. This game is absolutely horrific and It made me wanna vomit multiple times all throughout. I still don't understand the storyline, but It's clearly made to represent certain identity politics narratives sacrificing everything the first game built over actual storytelling. It even fails as a perquisite of creating a basic form of logical gameplay.  It is pure pure garbage. Do not trust the bought reviews by access media that'll say anything to boost their own status for purely corporate and selfish gains. There is NOTHING even remotely redeeming about Last Of Us Part 2.
6684) **** this new concept of equality in the games, a hoe kill Joel? Really? You ruined the game I don't play again this ****
6685) Very very bad story focus on very bad things they truly destroy that game  With the method of the game is very good but nothing attracts me to continue because I do not want to forget Explore or know the thing The story is the most important element in any game and they destroyed the storytelling they destroyed what attracted me to continue and know what happens after 10 hours I no longer care to continue
6686) Naughty Dog has always been at the forefront of games when it comes to the visuals, and this game is no different. Shame it was functionally ruined by the story.
6687) No word for the story. Total bs. Just save your money for something else and wait for the used ones. There gonna be ton of them soon
6688) Wasn’t a likable game because of how the beginning turned out and the fact how Joel died. Very dislikable.
6689) I heard about the leaks a while back and was incredibly disappointed to hear about how Naughty Dog decided to control the narrative of the game. I wasn’t quick to judge because leaks can be very misleading. I took it upon myself to watch the gameplay of the game and wait for the actual reviews to come out. No I’m not talking about the reviews that are done by critics, but by actual gamers. People that have actually been proven to know what the people will actually like. Critics can’t be trusted. They are always so out of touch with the community. Naughty Dog ruined this game by killing off Joel in the most silly way possible. Then they try to make you sympathize with the man/woman (I honestly can’t tell) who killed Joel by making you play as her, then you don’t even get to avenge Joel by killing her at the end. She just walks away scratch free. The dialogue doesn’t feel the same and all the character seem literally more stupid. Joel walked into the trap for no reason. Imagine being Naughty Dog and coming up with the plot of the second game and thinking it’s a good idea to make it a revenge story because Joel killed an irrelevant doctor in the last game. They could have just been semi-intelligent and made it about the Fireflies wanting to hunt down Ellie to find the cure. Then Joel and Ellie are on the run instead of them looking for someone like last game.
6690) There are only disgusting stories and characters left. it was very disappointing.
6691) The first two hours are incredibly boring and have very little game play. The story is just awful and after about 2 hours in, you'll no longer want to finish the game.,,Worst sequel of all time.
6692) If you say tlou1 is a masterpiece, I just can't agree more. But tlou2 is totally a piece of ****
6693) bad storyline. j haye the changing that happen no main story. nothing like TLOU originle game
6694) Worst game to play in quarantine.,It encourages you to hate with strong motivation but fails to address the hatred with any reasonable attempt. In the game, I'm not gonna forgive the person who killed my father. Outside the game, I'm not gonna forgive the writer who ruined my little precious memory of an apocalypse world that resembles the reality.,Life is already hard. Thank you Neil Druckmann, you made it **** harder.
6695) Yet another game shoving liberal views down your throat whether you like it or not. Don't like it? You're just a bigot/racist/Nazi/etc. Why can't games just be about the game and not some secret agenda to normalize mental issues/psychological problems?
6696) Now that you've persuaded me to forgive my father's murder, I'm sure you can forgive my grading
6697) This game was such a dissapointment compared to the first. I was a huge fan of the first game and was shocked at the direction they took the sequel. Shock value above all else apparently, and a disgusting focus on fringe ideologies that seemed out of place in the fictional apocalyptic world they created in the first game.
6698) This game is nothin but forced Left-Wing LGBT propaganda First game was a masterpiece, but this jëw shill of a game is nothing but pushing leftist propaganda that anyone with any common sense can see, don’t buy this game let these little SJW filths know that no one will buy a game with a forced agenda
6699) An absolute disgrace. Garbage.... Total waste of time.... An insult to the fans.... Trash storytelling.
6700) The way they did the story and how they treated certain characters is horrendous. Not acceptable at all and the political route they went for is stupid.
6701) Worst story ever. This game is an insult to previous game. **** Naughty Dog
6702) I won't invent the bicycle 2 by saying the same things that the majority of others are saying. I totally agree with them. Do not buy the game and support this sh*t
6703) After the storytelling marvel that was the last of us what is naughty dog gonna do? Is a new threat going to pop up, are joel and ellie going to find more people who are immune, maybe someplace somewhere never got hit with the apocalypse and is thriving until some bad guys show up and they need help? So what does naughty dog do? " Nahh thas too much work, les jus falkin kill joel with a golf club and sell that s#it"
6704) This game is main focus is the story so I will focus on that too.,I can’t say that the graphics and gameplay aren’t  good because they are.,But I just feel it’s such a waste to have this amount of attention to detail in the game and For it to be just thrown down the drain.,This game could’ve been something special but due to unlikable characters and a lackluster story It fails miserably to deliver.,I just hope that this once upon a time great studio Can go back to focus on making great games and not hammering home appoint that we all agree upon.,You can feel that there’s something wrong going on at naughty dog studios, people quitting, almost everyone who worked on the first game are gone.,Something in the game happens something horrible and they force you to play the character that did that thing. Which is one of the biggest complaints that see people talk about and They are right because that character isn’t likable and isn’t relatable she’s purely evil she’s not well motivated and she’s definitely not charismatic.,I would’ve loved to play the villain like Negan for example from The Walking Dead someone who is charismatic someone who you enjoy watching them be bad or even good sometimes but no you gotta push an agenda.,you get what you deserve naughty dog.
6705) I want to say thank you Mr Druckman for proving me that naughty dog is not as good of a company as it used to be. I will never buy any game from them ever again, I can't believe that this story was even approved its feels like it was written by lgbt 13 year old. Im done,, it's ridicilous.
6706) The whole game is not fun anymore, obviously the director wishes to make us accept their LGBT logic combined with women’s rights, well I don’t have any objection to these people, but please don’t overwhelm us with these doctrines again and again AND AGAIN! We really don’t care about your views, just give us a story we waited for years just like the first one. The conversations during gameplay are pointless and dumb, unrelated to the storyline. The characters are rumbling words in low voices all the time, sometimes you ycan hardly hear them, but it doesn’t matter, you don’t have to know.
6707) Please keep gender politics and games separate.,As a human with a brain I absolutely don't believe in gender transitioning.,I'm all for people dressing up as they please and if they want to cut off their pipi that's cool. But transgenders claim to be the other sex and then try to force their  believes in others. .. people shall do what they need to do. But when they try to intrude my bathrooms and try to force what I have to say then that's where I cut the line. Men are men. Women are women.  And I don't support The nonsense at all. And making this game a LGBTQ  movement is a no-no... I also wouldn't like to have anti Trump or Bernie propaganda in my games. Already had enough that I need to see BLM movements on all websites if all I want to do is watch a movie. Please keep politics out of  my games. Transgenders are humans which I sympathize with. They will never be able to be the sex they want to be. But I will never be 15 again. And I will probably never be announced as the most attractive guy on earth. Life is full of things you can never be. I feel bad for the high suicide rates. But you can't throw away basic logic. Is someone says he's a bird and he can fly I don't think trying to not stop him from jumping off a cliff it's the right thing to do because you accept him as bird. Mentally ill people need help. People with depression need help. And people who feel as if they're the wrong body need help. You just can't force me to think that men or women woman are men. Men are men and women a women.,However they are human beings and I support their right to dress however they want. I don't support them having the right to take away basic logic and freedom of speech. And thus I cannot play this game. At a game I can play is 0/10.,Please keep politics and games separated. Thanks
6708) The story plot is unacceptable. The game should be named as The Trash Of Us
6709) Don't own the game (go ahead sue me sjw tlou2 defenders), no point in it. Wonder how Anita is liking her new pet, must like it a lot to use him ruin one of the most anticipated games of all time just so that it can be politically correct. I hope Neil gets shown in detail how to use a 5-iron.
6710) Made an account just to post this. What a sick and distasteful way to kill one of the most beloved characters your studio has ever put out. Truly sickening. Furthermore the way characters act completely goes against what they would have done from the first game. THIS GAME IS NOT CANON IF IS A FAN FICTION. I don’t think I can buy from naughty dog again who used to be my favorite studio until this disgraceful mess!
6711) worst game ever, congrats NaughtyDog for ruining a classic, and trying to pin your failure on homophobia and transphobia, I'm gay, and I hated this game, I hated the secret social justice warrior bs, the agendas, and ideologies you tried to push through the game. Do you really think a trans person would care about pronouns in a world like this? really? or an extremist group would care about some trans person in an apocalyptic world.  Do you think you can disrespect a great smart character like Joel and get away with it? did you really think making us play Abby was a good choice? that we'd sympathize with her? You killed Joel in the most humiliating way possible, a great character died in the stupidest way possible. Joel, the guy that never trusted strangers, and barely trusted anyone, the guy that survived 25 years in that world. is killed by strangers with a golf bat, do you think The Joel Miller would be so casual with armed strangers in the apocalypse? the man that didn't stop for an injured man who turned out to be an enemy is so casual with a group of armed strangers in a small clear space without cover, hell he didn't even seem cautious between them, he told them his name so casually. This game is the biggest disappointment of the century. you kept the narcissistic creep Niel but didn't pursue the actual important people that made The Last Of Us so great, no you let this creep Niel drive them out, just to spam the game with his face, props about him, (self-inserts) and characters that look like him. That creep wanted nothing but to make this game about himself. the characters not only are out of character, but they aren't even logical, it's like the game was written by an alien pretending to be a human. What person sees someone they view as a father being bashed to death and then have their fingers bitten off by that same person that killed your father figure, and then you let them live. so basically she went to get her fingers bitten off and then went back home, really? so she kills Nora but lets Abby go? critics huh? great job deceiving us NaughtyDog, making us believe Joel will help Ellie with her revenge in the trailer and making us believe he's going to have a big role in the game, and then you change everything, this is the last game I buy from Naughty Dog, and I'm getting a refund soon. what a let down that was. redo the game, or pull it from the shelves and don't make a sequel in the first place. fire Neil Druckmann. he's the reason this amazing game is now ruined, he is the guy that shoved his face in the game, just to have sex and spit on Joel's corpse. kinda symbolic. bring back the original crew. Neil didn't make this game for the fans or the story, he made it for himself. you can CLEARLY see that from the writing and storytelling, Neil shouldn't even create a game, let alone the sequel to a beloved and anticipated classic game.
6712) Feminism is a very bad thing for the game industry. Leave it to social networks.
6713) A miserable, miserable game.  I loved the first one, there was so much character development and it is still absolutely my favorite game. Ever. Then comes this. Ugh.,,Abby is the most insufferable, self-righteous character in all of video games.,,And Ellie suddenly deciding that "revenge is bad" because of a random flashback, after killing hundreds of random people, is just laughable.,,Returning this miserable excuse for a game first thing tomorrow morning.
6714) Instead of buying this game, donate it to a medical team studying Chinese pneumonia. Make the world brighter and more beautiful.
6715) Thanks for ruining everything Naughty Dog. Should've stop at the first game if the sequel gonna be like this smh
6716) The story doesn’t make any sense. The characters, particularly one of the protagonists, behave in highly uncharacteristic ways in order to serve the writing/political message that the dev team wanted to convey. Play this game if you want to walk through a political agenda for 60 hours. If not, just go on with your life and think for yourself. Also metacritic seems to not want to let me post this
6717) Terribly disappointing. Story is riddled with plotholes. Characters are poorly written. Avoid this disaster at all costs.
6718) Terrible sequel, fans of the franchise should just ignore this game and move along...
6719) Terrible story and characters. They killed the whole series. It's nothing like the first game.
6720) You should never have to play 25 hours worth of a game designed to make you feel awful. Sometimes it works for a movie to make you feel uncomfortable, but video games are too lengthy for this to feel like anything more but abject misery.
6721) Nothing beats a forced writing in a video game, all the new characters that the writer intended to deliver are trash, the dialogues feels awful and awkward and it shows the linearity of the characters building/creating.,Joel and Tommy are bunch of rookies now, no survival instincts, no brutal life experience, both experienced lot of ambushes in the past 20+ years but instead they let their guard down and trust strangers in a matter of seconds. Genuine and honest writing.,It seems like no one cares about survival anymore, in a setting focuses mainly on survival and that’s what bothers me the most, focuses only on revenge and relationships.,They should’ve stopped at Part 1, seven years waisted creating this garbage, and I hope all the gaming industry learns from it.
6722) The story of this game really spat in the face of fans who fell in love with the first game, its story and characters. The writing is absolutely awful, your motivation to continue playing is destroyed within the first hour. The trailers were deceiving and the game is worse than I had hoped after hearing of the leaks. Had really high hopes going into this, as the first game was so incredible, and I enjoy many other Naughty Dog games, however, The Last of Us part 2 was a complete let down, so so very disappointed in this game.
6723) Plays like it came out in 1998. Idk how something like this can get so overhyped...
6724) Horribly mismanaged a potential amazing continuation or end to the first title
6725) I have the platinum trophy for The Last of Us. Instead of taking the easy win with this game, they decided to go their own route with the story and it is bad. Im only giving 2 points for the visuals.
6726) I am gonna keep this short. I was massively dissapointed with this sequel. This is some SJW crap masquerading as a game. The graphics are great but that is about it. Gameplay and story suck big time. WTF where you thinking?
6727) the plot looks weak at first glance,no nextgen graphics,character scripting,lesbian orientation propagand,very weak to continue the original part
6728) Sorry to all Sony's fanboys, im a playstation player but this game is trash . Nothing new, story is 0, boring game like if im watching a bad Netflix movie... Graphics are ok tho on ps4pro . Too much violence. Lesbian kiss was unnecessary. Maybe its time to move on and make diferent kind of game. I got bored by all the Sony's exclusive looking like bad movies honestly.
6729) And you name it “a story writer” funny, nothing good except the graphics and soundtrack
6730) Trash. Absolutely trash. Worst sequel ever. It disgusts me how they could make such a great a game and ruin it.
6731) Total deconstruction of a once great franchise. It is disgraceful to have to play as the antagonist after she kills the protagonist. Naughty Dog has lost their way.
6732) The Iliad is a better revenge story than this and that was made in 762 B.C.,Screw Neil Druckmann
6733) do not waste your money on this game. they paid the critics to give them high reviews. this is the most poorly written garbage i have ever seen in a video game. they ruined everything that was in the first game that made it great.
6734) Druckmann, you made a garbage like, left-wing story with a decent graphics though. You will lead the Studio to failure.
6735) Its worse than what Disney did to Star Wars. DO NOT give your money to this company and personally I'm starting to question giving money to Sony for the PS5 due to their Double standards as they show a very vivid gay sex scene yet won't allow women in bikinis playing volleyball. The game is garbage 100% pure garbage and a slap in the face of Last of us fans. NaughtyDog has lost all future money from Myself and my entire household.
6736) Not really my cup of tea. I typically stick to the early 2000's Tiger Woods games but my grandson convinced me to play this garbage. I could barely understand what the heck was going on and the controls were difficult.
6737) I wih they would have never released it,,they literally ripped out my heart for this game and then forced me to piss on it,,please if you played the first one, dont do this to yourself.
6738) Worst game plot I have ever seen in my entire life, I would not recommend this to anyone. Pure F***king garbage. Btw RIP to the boi Joel
6739) this game makes me so mad that I couldnt even imagined in my life. they ruined my favorite game of all time. my god 25 hrs and that stupid ending.
6740) He was not lying when he said "we dont use the word fun". So many years just to see Joel getting murdered and dont get me starting about the ending
6741) If you are reading this, please just don't believe any of these corporate puppets and shills that will tell you that people are overreacting. This game was ruined by its writers, where all they can see are identity politics and use their position of power to preach on their soapbox, this game is atrocious. Don't support terrible people and their terrible products. It is another generic third-person action game, you can find much more enjoyable experiences than this if you use your brain just a little bit.
6742) You know it's gonna be a flop when you show a big "SCREW YOU" to your old fans and try searching new ones in the face of LGBT minorities. It's a mashup of a Netflix version of High School Musical, Taken and Day Z, and it's pretty, pretty bad. It actually destroyed everything the first game consolidated. Naughty Dog, you just dug up your grave. We will forever remember TLOU 1 as the one and only.
6743) Over rated,How its posible that this game some people says that its the best game of history, its a excellent game  but the press work its repulsive
6744) **** storytelling, bad dog naughty dog killing of Joel was your worst move ever n by a character I don't even n didn't even grow to like,epic fail
6745) 1 hour into the game and you are going to want to return this pice of trash
6746) this game is so bad thank you xqc for saving me 60 bucks they killed him with a damn golf club like wtf   do they think tlou 1 was a joke
6747) Awfull Game awfull hystory Why naughty dog dos this to gis characters? I won't never understand
6748) This game is overrated, neil druckmann destroyed TLOU, don't give your money for this.
6749) Oh boy, where to begin...,Firstly I would like to say that I never completed the first game purely because I didn’t like the gameplay but I Ioved the story so much that I watched a full walkthrough on youtube. Normally with me if I don’t enjoy the gameplay on ANY game, I will stop playing and will forget about the game like I never played it, but not with The Last Of Us. The first game is DEFINITELY one of the best written games ever and the connection you had between yourself and the characters is so amazing that you didn’t even have to play the game to feel that way, and even though I didn’t enjoy the gameplay I personally feel that the story was AT LEAST 9/10. And now moving onto the second game...,I want to say that when the games plot leaked originally I didn’t mind and I thought it would just get better by context, but oh man I was 100% wrong. I Then started to panic a bit when it was coming out that 70% of the studio left because they didn’t like the way the game was heading and the way they treated their staff leading up to the release of this game (AKA Johnathan Cooper). And then that leaves us up till now, when the game has released. I have seen pretty much a walkthrough of the whole game missing out some parts like the middle but overall I know what this game is. All I have to say is Neil Druckmann and Anita Sarkeesian should NEVER be allowed to go anywhere near the gaming industry EVER AGAIN. And before people start to call me a homophobe, this is not the reason I HATE this game it is because of...,1. The absolute HORRENDOUS character development/writing. You could genuinely remove some of these people from the game and it would make a difference AT ALL.,2. The CLEAR AGENDA THEY ARE SHOVING DOWN EVERYONES THROATS. Politics shouldn’t be in games unless it is significant and essential to the games story/plot.,3. The DISRESPECT they have shown fans from the first game because this is EVERYTHING WE DIDN’T WANT. I could think of a hundred better directions this game could have gone in.,4. FALSE ADVERTISEMENT. I COULD GO ON FOREVER AND EVER.,I honestly don’t want to go on because what they have done to this franchise is CRIMINAL and the disrespect they have shown characters that we fell in love with in the original is nothing short of disgusting. I could go over so much more but it genuinely makes me sad, don’t get me wrong this game is beautiful in terms of graphics and it’s gameplay looks much better than the first but the reason we fell in love with the last of us is because of the story. AND THEY COMPLETELY DESTROYED IT. I honestly can’t believe they thought this was a good idea and in my eyes, there is only ONE The Last Of Us.
6750) I´been waiting for this game and now that i have it im just heartbroken, first i don't care about Elie being Lesbian(Thing we know from the first game) or about Joel´s Death because we all knew that would happen. I never watch or read the Leaks but the thing is it doesn't matter, the game try so hard to surprise you and i think that's the reason for killing Joel in that way, but why?,Abby is not a bad character but after what happened with Joel i can't relate with her, if you do something like that first be sure that we care about that character, a 10 minute flashback is not going to make me love her and support her actions.,The second thing is Joel himself, in the first game he didn't trust in anyone and suspect from everybody but here he just say "Howdy Doodly, my name is Joel i live there i'm gonna mark it in your map for you my friend , oh you want me to go inside that room? ok im gonna follow you to this dark room room and let you close the door because in the lord's land everyone is good right?" and he is not the only one, Ellie acts REALLY different and...is just feels like this game was made by another studio, a study that thought "People like meaningless plot twist, let's show them HOURS OF CUT SCENES, that way they'll love our characters" the gameplay is literally the same and the only good thing is the graphics and the music. my final thoughts are:,Mediocre story 0/10,Gameplay exactly the same 6/10,Amazing graphics, I don't understand how ps4 supports this 10/10,Music amazing 10/10
6751) Honestly, you know what you did wrong Naughty Dog.,You don't need me to say how you **** up.,You know what you did, you had your chance.,Joel is dead.,Ellie's relationship gets thrown down the gutter.,She doesn't find true love and doesn't get her revenge because she imagines Joel playing a guitar.,Which I guess is supposed to mean "He doesn't want you to kill her",But people who played the last game know damn well if Ellie died Joel would burn forests and shatter mountains to find the bastard that killed Ellie just to perform every Mortal Kombat Finisher imaginable on them.,,People are now trying to discredit these reviews as review bombers who haven't played the full 25-30 game experience and thus can't criticize the game but that is **** personified. If the game kills off a main character in the first hour, and you give it another 4 hours to get good, why would you spend the next 20-25 hours playing the game if you don't like it. How many chances are you required to give a game before your review is seen as valid.,They're also saying this is because of the "lgbt and trans characters in the game" but we've been fine with those characters every since that DLC of the first game came out. Also THEY are the ones that ended the only lgbt relationship in the damn game, not me. I would've prefered at the very least for Ellie to find love or someone to comfort her after the game's ending other than a **** guitar. But THEY are the ones that ruined that. Don't say the reviewer hate lgbt characters when the developers don't seem to want those relationships in the game either.,,Don't buy the game. The entirety of the cutscenes are on youtube and the gameplay isn't that much diferent from the last game. If you're so desperate for gameplay then play the last game or play a better one. Because otherwise if you're a fan of the series then the story isn't for you.
6752) this is clearly not a good game all those companies that gave this game good reviews are sell outs and damage the community they are part of i can no longer trust reviews from sites that gave this game 10/10 they just lost credibility . i give this game a 4 because graphics are amazing , combat is mediocre/repetitive but fluid, good sound , nice stages/ambient and some parts of the game where fun . but overall the story is what drives you to enjoy the graphics and combat and is TERRIBLE ,lets say that i forget about the LGBTQ stuff , is still nonsense , total garbage, is something that you dont even want to replay again, and they said if you put the leaks into context you will understand  but the truth is that there is no context for 90% of the stuff that happens,  the NPC's are garbage , dumb as a rock  sometimes feels like they are blind and deaf no way this is a 10/10 game it is only 100% not recommended.
6753) Biggest disappointment since The Last Jedi and Game of Thrones season 8!!! Do not give anything to Naughty Dog and watch this piece of trash on YouTube instead, and save your money!
6754) The last of us one had a perfect story, the gameplay was meh but the story made you want to keep playing. Game mechanics, what you're doing, it can all be "okay" as long as the lore and narrative, storyline, and character depth is all there. Your drive to keep wanting to play can easily outweigh a few game mechanics that you dislike. But this game? No. The mechanics are still garbage, and that'd be fine if the story was good. But this story is god awful. Not to spoil anything. But the ending leaves you feeling like you have no actual inputs in the game. Nothing you do matters because at the end of the day, this "interactive" video game is only here to push the narrative of what the game writer wanted. Nothing you would rather do matters because you don't get to choose what you want to happen. There's that single **** you" ending and that's it.
6755) Why. just why. Why do we have to be subjected to something like this something that has a beautiful graphics beautiful scenery even beautiful characters and then t to top it off with the story that destroys everything we loved about the first part of it Neil druckmann told us that what he was going to do was alter our expectations but in doing that he also altered the story he altered everything that was good about it I will not give spoilers spoilers here but I will say this everything that made the game good was destroy and unlike the first game there is no up happy moments there is no humanity to fall upon on because everything in this game all the bad things that happened end up leading to nothing and it leaves you feeling bleak and hopeless The last of us 2 is a sequel that really wasn't needed and now it'll be a sequel that is almost universally hated for the longest will be able to remember.one last thing I'm tired of seeing all these other comments saying that we shouldn't be screaming because it's not our game and we're mad about one detail for the ones who gave our money and invested ourselves into these characters in this story for so long only to get something that's not even worth mentioning only to get something that is an excuse for a payoff this is the worst thing that's happened since Star wars decided to bring itself back from the  90s.
6756) The Last of Us Part II has great gameplay but the story sucks so it's worse than Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing, Superman 64, ET Atari, and Ride to Hell Retribution. Now you excuse me while I go back to my cardboard box and play Kirby.
6757) I really really dislike the story and the gameplay is just so **** boring its unbelievable
6758) Absolutely dreadful story which completely nukes any possibly enjoyment of the game.
6759) Hell story, Disagree with all who gave 10/10.,You bulid nice caracter in first past and then this part just put to garbage,Good job !!
6760) stupid narrative, forced the death of Joel so that you had a goal in the game, I regret having bought it I keep the first
6761) This is a below average game with a shockingly twisted story, dear oh my all that great talent and acting wasted on a script like this. And despite seeing all the anger from many people due to certain scenes, deaths, the ending, none of that really matters.,,What matters is, you took away the loving bond that was the heart and soul of this series by killing Joel and creating a dark revenge storyline that eventually "killed" Ellie too and this series as well, instead of something more positive and vibrant.,,This is what brings depression to the people of our world. Video games are over if this continues, they are meant to relax, amuse and entertain you. Sometimes make you cry, but not leave you depressed, horrified and absolutely destroyed on the inside.,,For example, our dear Italian friend Hideo who sells pizza for a living loved this series back from the PS3 days, he couldn't contain his tears and went off from our discord and into anxiety when this originally leaked, and now 3 months later he is still in such disbelief and shock that he refuses to talk to anyone about anything gaming or spaghetti related. We hope you are ok wherever you are partner. Thanks for ruining him Neil, you and your golf game did this. Ugh, he's never going to be eating spaghetti again.,,Some good moments as to why it's still a solid game, the visuals are very good, as well as the fluid facial and body animations, but it still feels like it's the first game just in 4k with a few more gameplay tweaks. Which isn't bad, but overally due to everything else, yeah...can't get a good grade.,,And last but not least, a few hours after beating the game, i am left to wonder two more simple things.,,Was the sequel really needed? No,,Is our Dedito really gae? Yes.,,Once again, thanks Neil.
6762) Trash ass game. The critics should not be allowed to have jobs.  Complete and utter **** this game is. Ellie is on a huge hunt for revenge. There ya go
6763) Spoiler alert this game is ((TRASH)) TRASH TRASH TRASH TRASH TRASH TRASH TRASH
6764) Worse ending ever... And this spoilers scandat. Sony and naughty dogs just couldn't keep them selfs. Rubbish
6765) Gameplay slow, horrible and outdated,Scenario of the first destroyed by this second opus ...,,Very disappointed with ND !!
6766) what people dont get is we dont dislike the fact that we can have lgbt protagonist or villains what we hate is how bad the story is, the writer just basically tossed everything from the last game into a trash can not worth 60.,,a good game is a like a good pizza if you have god sauce and cooked dough but the topings are trash the whole pizza becomes trash in TLOUp2 good graphics, decent gameplay but the story oof dumbed down characters plot not making sense forced agendas.,,Save 60 bucks do not buy this game.
6767) This game disappoints in every way that matters. It's sad that after all this time since the release of its predecessor, the writers could not come up with a story that improves on the original. I can't recommend.
6768) What is this? 95% are u sure? This game is completely based on the ending of the first game and has a rating highter than 1 game? This is crap. There is no magic between main characters like it was in the first game. It's... Boring and crappy story. Game play didn't change that much and your companions can't be noticed by enemies. Where is the revolution? There is nothing. First game was really something incredible. This is full of crappy LGBT characters with nonsense missions. Nooo pals, this is not how it should be. It can't be better than first.
6769) Ruined the game within first 2 hours, disrespects the first game bad story.
6770) Make a great, strong character. Develop this character heavily throughout the first game. Have fans fall in love with this character. Kill them immediately and act like they never existed to introduce a new character. The end.
6771) This game is straight trash.  This leftist, social justice warrior company tried to pander to the brainwashed, retarded leftists in this country and destroyed a wonderful game. F naughty dog. I would NEVER purchase this train wreck of a game.
6772) Don’t spend a dollar on this **** don’t buy it because it was not worth itg
6773) There is nothing good to say about this game except that the cinematics is good. That's it. The story is horrible. Not gonna spoil anything at all, but the ending is complete garbage. How anyone could give this a real 10/10 is beyond me, especially critics. All critics, especially the ones on this site, must have been paid to give their reviews. Anyone (and most people on here even) know that this game is bad. Don't trust me, just look at the reviews. Bad game.
6774) Dude if someone came to me 7 years ago when I was crying while rushing through that hospital with Joel what was going to happen in the second game I wouldn't believe it for a second , if someone asked me for the worst scenario I could imagine I would do one a lot better than what they made . Simply the most horrible thing ever
6775) Worse game of the year if you ask me don’t waste your money save it for cyberpunk 2077
6776) The story and game was very disappointing! Wish I didn’t buy it! Maybe next time don’t ruin the story to shove ur agenda on your fans. I’ll never buy a game developed by Naughty dogs again.
6777) Doesn't deserve to be called the sequel. They belittled loved characters and shoved PC stuff down our throats.
6778) I dont know why the **** they killed Joel like this, TLOU was mas favorite zombies game, but for me, it never had a sequel.
6779) This franchise is like a big bait and switch. The first game was engaging, fun and interesting with a captivating story. The sequel is a big agenda driven mess with poorly told because its held back by the need to follow an extreme ideology rather than good storytelling. Very sad.
6780) Imagine Star Wars, but you play as a trans person who beats Obi-wan over the head with a blunt weapon, to death. That's what this game is. And then instead of staging the rebellion and blowing up the Death Star, Luke spends 80% of the story dealing with his new gay lover.,,There is a time and a place for those things, this aint it. You have a HUGE problem when you let activists take over the writing of a beloved franchise, and forcefully shoehorn in their agenda like a square peg in a round hole.
6781) I enjoyed the gameplay and the progression build from the first. The graphics, as expected, are almost immaculate (minus some occasional lighting glitches). There were pretty much no bugs that hindered my progress or were game-breaking in any way.,But, of course, the story is behind my low rating and mostly all other low ratings. I'm not sure if it has to do with the **** year or what... but that **** was just a big blow. I feel they failed to make the death the crucial element of the story that it is and everything about the story surrounding that event feels forced.,N.D. probably could have made a better story, ones that both critics and fans can love.
6782) Fck You Neil Druckmann and fck You twice Anita sarkeesian you two ruined this franchise whit your progre agenda BS
6783) First and foremost - this game is not the continuation of Last of Us story. This is nothing but a fan-fiction. Amateurish, vain, talentless, perverted. It is as bad, as latest Terminator movie.,,The story is based only on a revenge. There is no character development, no emotional connection. Remember how long it took Ellie to build a relationship with Joel in first game? How long it took Joel to overcome the loss of his daughter, and to adopt Ellie? Well screw you! Now there is girl, you kissed the day before the game starts, the next day you’re making out and all in love. Also, authors use this logic for the whole game - here we take something away from, and you should be angry. This is a stupid 80s action movie, but not fun at all.,,Gameplay is literally the same as original Last of Us. No new mechanics, no unique encounters, you either slowly walk and loot, or run and shoot. Looting is boring - you can only interact with 1 or 2 objects on scene. Shooting has no feedback at all. You don’t feel satisfied after you’ve managed to make a good shot. And don’t even mention stealth - I thought in 2020 players deserve something more interesting than basic arenas with covers and objects throwing.,,What about famous animations? Have anyone seen any? Choppy, sluggish and absolutely unimpressive. RDR 2 feels more alive than these puppets.,,Visuals are impressive. Impressive how bad they look. RDR2 looked MUCH better than this blurred mess. The very first scene of the game shows you a town, where dozens of people with only 4 different faces and clothes! And it is not action based scene like in a first game, where you don’t have time to notice this - no, you walk slowly and notice everything.,,This garbage deserves nothing but a zero, and I really want writers of this game, those who actually made decision, to understand what an abomination they’ve created, and never do this crap again.
6784) I kept an open mind about part 2 because I loved the first game, it is favourite game of all time. I also don’t have strong feelings about gay people and wouldn’t minus points for a character being gay so I, avoided the majority of the spoilers, kept my pre order and hoped for the best. It is annoying how the social justice scenes feel gratuitous and not linked to any plot or character development. They’re just included to virtue signal. However, that’s not my major issue. The major issue is that the first game felt like a zombie apocalypse... it was barren, it was moody, it brooded. After playing the first game that feeling stuck with me for days. The characters you came across felt human, they left their mark on you and you moved on. Joel was a grieving father on the brink of a breakdown, the complexity of his character - desperation and grief with hope and tenderness for Ellie - was so well written.,I’m about 5 hours into part 2 and it feels like a high school melodrama. The characters gossip and chatter constantly. The social justice scenes serve no plot points. It’s bubbly like a JRPG. Don’t get me wrong I’ve enjoyed Final Fantasy games in the past but that’s not why I’m here. I’m here to go back into that world I saw in the first game. I’m left disappointed.,Naughty Dog have used up all of my “benefit of the doubt” now. I will not be pre ordering anything again.,It’s actually quite sad, I wanted this game to be made for so long... and this is what we get... :-(
6785) Its **** Theres Just Cinematics, and lesbians, plus the dead of joel, the musix is bad and Has No multiplayer. Sony have to learn about Xbox
6786) The characters are the worst in gaming. The graphics are good as to be expected but everything else is terrible do not buy this game.
6787) Great story-NO,Beautiful characters-NO,Interesting gameplay-NO,Gay characters-YEEES, exactly what we needed.
6788) awful story, awful "gameplay" that's more like a corridor shooter, ugly graphics it sucks pp
6789) Honestly just really disappointed in this game, if you are here for the game play that is probably the only good thing with it. The storyline has got to be one of the worst I've ever played, I would have rather pre-ordered fallout 76 knowing how bad it is, than play this game.
6790) This game completely **** on all the ground work of part 1. I don't even mind them killing off a certain someone...but to do it so cheaply leaves a sour taste in my mouth. Are the graphics good? Yes. Is the game play fun? It's more or less the same from part 1, only there seems to be longer drawn out periods of uninteresting stuff happening. But the story??Absolute trash.  I can't believe we waited 7 years for this garbage.
6791) Managed to ruin a great franchises for a social and political  agenda. Neil druckman should never be allowed to be in charge of any   of any game again.
6792) Completely hated how they treated Joel like seriously? That was just disrespectful and unnecessary the team behind TL OU 2 clearly don't care about their own characters and their own fans and their feelings. And the ending??? Disappointing at less. Who tf thought after writing this "yh they're gonna love it. That's perfect " anyway I'm just going to erase this bad experience from my head and act like this game never existed.
6793) Beautiful graphic, but the story is terrible, they have destroyed the characters, too much violence, actually I have rage quit
6794) Nice graphic,perfect voice acting,very good details,a gabage story,terrible characters,the worst ending in history
6795) I didn't want to play Abby who killed Joel. The production team seems to have organized the contents to experience various people's stories, but that's enough to experience in debates and papers. There is also a lack of respect for the former character, and a lack of respect for the users who played it. Why should we learn something while playing games? Aren't we learning enough in our lives? Wasn't the game about getting a break from a weary reality life? It's not worth saying that it hurts the probability of a game to teach users something.
6796) Do not EVER call this game The Last of Us 2, ever. This in no f way deserves to be a sequel to the original masterpiece. This is utter bull crap and I never once in my life want to be reminded of this absolute pile of garbage. The story of Joel ended with the original game, period.
6797) This Game a Clear insult to the Players. Nothing more,,by the way graphics great thank you
6798) the way everything was done just ruined it for me. Such a disappointment. It made the first game extremely pointless and the plot was as if the creators looked at it and spat on it. The graphics are amazing but the plot in itself just made it a game that’s hard to play. I get it’s about revenge but i mean do things a certain way, especially if you’ll kill of a main character like that.
6799) Disrespect to the first game and the fans. It's worse than the leaks. Graphics is the only okay-ish thing this game have left.
6800) Remember when Joel overcame his own personal struggles? From losing his wife and daughter in a tragic murder that scarred him for life, leaving him a hollow shell of a man, unable to love or feel. Then he took on the most important mission for humanity at the time, to protect that young innocent girl Ellie. He lost his only friend in the world to people who wanted to capture her, and he kept going because he thought he was doing what's right. Following Joel and his struggle, not only his struggle to survive or to help save humanity, but the struggle to regain his humanity. Tracing his journey he goes through highs, lows, fights with death and life itself, all to do what he thinks is right, and for us to follow that journey with him. He discovers a part of him that dies long ago thanks to her, thanks to the love he learned he could feel again. To the point where he allowed himself to feel, and loved her so much as his own child that he would rather doom all of humanity than have her die, have him be alone again. Joel had finally learned humility, and humanity.,The last of us was a masterpiece of gaming, revolutionizing the way that style of game was played, and raising the standard for storytelling and connectivity to the player for other games.,The Last of Us part 2 is a slap in the face for every loyal fan that bought The Last of us 1 and then later the remastered version. This was a beautiful story that was tainted by the developer's own twisted sexual fetishes. The creators could not help themselves from sexualizing a poor underage girl that went through so much trauma
6801) Everyone waited for this game for so long just to be disappointed. I'll try to convince myself this doesn't exist.
6802) God the Creator is such a loser for ruining such a great game his excuse is so pathetic "we're trying to normaliz something that is normal" AKA "being gay. GUESS WHAT ITS 20 F*CKING 20 NO ONE THINKS ITS WEIRD TO BE GAY ANYMORE JUST ABOUT ALL PEOPLE ARE FINE WITH GAYS STOP RUINING GREAT THINGS YOU SJW LIBERAL TRASH
6803) Just no...Completely destroyed the store by trying to "get woke." WTB Amy Hennig back....
6804) This game is a dumpster fire.  ND should be ashamed.  ND cohorts claim that it is bots?  Really?  This game is not worth your time or money, even when it hits the bargain bin.  Arguably the worst writing I have seen.  Characters are terrible.  Identity politics nonsense.  Why?
6805) Badenes story, I do not Know why they create That bad story it does not make sense
6806) -Story 1/10: Probably Naughty Dogs weakest story by far, its comparable to GoT Season 7 & 8 or the,new Star Wars Trilogy. Very basic uninteresting Revenge Plot.,,-Characters 2/10: The Characters are developed decently, they have natural conversations,(sometimes to much imo) during the Gameplay and their emotions get conveyed,really well. Sadly its a shame how the Devs treat their old established Characters, it,feels like a kick in the balls to the fans and a cheap way to set up the weak plot,(Disney Luke Skywalker is an easily drawn comparison) and all new Characters are,very unlikable.,,-Gameplay 5/10: The weakest point in The Last Of Us was always the Gameplay. Sure some ppl like,it, but its avarage at best and pretty boring. TLOU2 doesnt innovate here, but,improves the established System a little bit, with some decent quality of life,changes.,,-Graphics 9/10: Not much to say here, the Game looks insanly good. Only negative is the frame-rate.,Ppl should wait till the PS5 release to get the optimal experience out of it.,,-Level design 2/10: Holy **** are these Levels "just there". They look beautiful and all, but are so empty,they are very linear with almost no 2nd path or something to explore. Even some,Call of Duty Levels are more interesting.,-AI 4/10: Improved but very dated, feels like Im playing a stealth game from 2014.,,Fazit: I would give the Game a 4/10, from a technical point the Game is solid, but the Gameplay and Levels leave much to be desired and are never the selling point of the Game. What remains is the story which can in some way be interpreted as an attack to the fanbase (yes its that bad and the leaks were 100% accurate). So I would only suggest this Game to the few people who liked the 1st Game not for the story, but for the Gameplay.,,edit: I'm shocked and disgusted that Naughty Dog and Sony managed to pay this Game up to the rating of a Zelda Breath of the Wild. Shame on you, shame on the industry and corrupt press, Im actually speechless and disappointed.,~changed rating from 4/10 to 0/10.
6807) An absolute mockery of the original. Honestly it’s baffling how people can actually be positive about such an awful sequel that did everything it could to quite literally spit on the legacy of the first game.
6808) Go woke. Go broke.,Thanks for ruining the game and storyline.,Pure garbage.
6809) Even more feminism and tolerant stupidity.  Less than normal plot and logic! And thanks for the women pumped gorillas!
6810) It seems to me that this chapter serves to derail all the progress made in the first story. Playing this through is extremely unsatisfying and disheartening. I wouldn't recommend lovers of the first TLOU to play this because it extremely harsh to previously loved characters. I have no idea how the metacritic score on this game is so high, and I have lost respect for this service and will no longer be using it when looking for games to play.
6811) Just idiot, Naughty Dog.,They spoiled the series.,I wouldn't play any games from them.,Maybe they respect SJW, but not their fans and customers and any other gamers.
6812) Do not buy and get disappointed. It doesn't live up to it's predecessor. It seems like they tried to milk the success of the first version with a nonsense story, the mechanics are buggy, it doesn't live up to it's predecessor in terms of engagement, if you are a fan of The Last Of US, skip this version, it's better to remember it as the first version only than to witness the mess that is The Last Of Us Part II.,Advise: don't buy it, unless you get a guarantee that you will get your money back.
6813) What a shame, this game just made me hate the first one, just don't buy it its worthless
6814) tlou 2 is a **** garbage story for a petty Revenge Drama, this game is trash !!!!!
6815) So... all the leaks were true. I truly hoped they wouldn’t be. Niel Druckmann should never EVER get to work in the industry again.,Pushing his god awful woke agenda doesn’t belong in video games. Gameplay is okay. Graphics are okay. The story is the worst. And that really ruins a story driven game.
6816) Great Graphics. Great gameplay. Horrendous story in the history of gaming. 7 years of waiting for this and I can't begin to describe how this game ruined me and many others.
6817) Never buying another naughty dog game again...dire! Pandered to identity politics and butchered the legacy of the original.
6818) First off, critics are useless. Nobody should ever listen to them ever again, they've proven to me that they are not to be trusted. on to the review:,Graphics... That's the only good thing about this. Everything else is either mediocre or down right awful. The game play did not evolve one bit since 2013. It's still a walking simulator that's more a movie than a game, which would be enjoyable if it had a good story but God damn is it bad. The story simply broke my heart and not in the good way. It's like a spit in the face of the entire fan base. It's like the worst fan fiction you could possibly find. Seriously? This is what you came up after 7 years? Did Twitter write this game? It's full of plot holes and the characters you fell in love with in the first game are completely ruined and you are forced to play with the character that ruined them. I don't mind the woke stuff but when so much of it is obviously forced down your throat it feels like the entire game was built around it so if people don't like it you can pull the victim card and say that they are ists and phobes and whatever. And the director to preach so much about sexualising women in games is bad only than to put that Abby scene in the game? I can't unsee that. WTF were you thinking? I'd rather watch 2 girls one cup on repeat while eating. Let me tell you a little secret western game devs. People are playing games for entertainment and they'd rather see pretty things while doing it than ugl.. excuse me FUGLY ones! This is never going to change. How is sexualising men was never an issue? People don't like to be preached to and to be told what to think. In a video game setting, that choice should be always ours.,Overall, I don't recommend this, especially if you were a fan of the previous one. maybe buy it when it's on a massive sale. Shame.
6819) I don't write a very long review so I'm gonna make this short and Sweet! but Spoilers Alert too. The game play the graphic the movement is Great! but The only downside to this that i couldn't give any score is the story! which kind of a BS story I've seen from such a long time! YOU DON'T GO AND KILLED OF THE MAIN CHARACTER OF THE FIRST GAME in order for the progression for the second game in a very cheap way like that! and If this game become best of the year game, i'm sure it's gonna be a lot of boycotting sooner or later from the player!
6820) Worst game ever.,Way to over hyped for such a bad game r like this,Expected way more of this
6821) So disappointed in the way they gave Joel the Last Jedi treatment and turned this game into another agenda driven piece of garbage instead of something worth playing. Thanks for completely destroying another beloved franchise just to pander to the 1% who won’t ever play this game.,I don’t play games for the graphics, give me something I can immerse myself in and escape from the reality of this broken society. I don’t want This crap in my games. SAVE YOUR MONEY
6822) Hot garbage I don't know what they were thinking. Also adding in a whole mocap sex scene is ok with sony?
6823) This game is a complete absurdity, I've get bored so easily even the hardest mode was nothing good. About story for nothing is the best from Naughty Dog all critics opinions seem to be payed, I've already sold it nothing worthy
6824) Weed, politics and killing the best and most loved character. What a mess of a "game"
6825) good gameplay, but the creators of this game made **** about the history of this game
6826) I demand a refund!  The story was trash,the characters are trash! The mechanics and game play are great but that all I can say. Why push a PC based narrative. Come on Naughty dog, you can do better! Just rewrite this piece of garbage and bring  Joel back!
6827) This is the worst story in video game i ever played, why you make our lovable character die in just 2 hour, for joel !!!
6828) Boring game after 10 hours of gameplay I Dont recommend,Bad story,Great visuals,Should have been a movie
6829) 10/10 Generation, century and universe game GG sony This is what happens when you insert silly things into video games
6830) Clear example of how to quickly destroy all the good things created in a previous title by forcing a fashion theme and pleasing minorities.,,The story is terrible, the characters are soulless and although the gameplay is good, this does not make the game better.,,A score of 95 is excessive. A lot of money must have been given by the people of Sony to the critics, because this game should have a score of 60 and that's a lot,,Un saludo a la gentuza de forocoches
6831) Imagine that in Walking dead 2 Lee Everett is alive and LGBT community will kill him. Imagine that in RDR 3 Arthur Morgan is alive and LGBT community will kill him. Imagine that in next Nemo cartoon LGBT community will kill Nemo's father. Such fillings you will get in TLOU 2. :c (sorry for my English)
6832) I can accept Joel's death. Before the game was released, I also guessed that Joel might die. But Joel's way of dying was too incomprehensible. Trash screenwriter.
6833) Totally bad, Thyey destroyed a good game and its history, hopefully learn about it.
6834) The story plays the biggest part for me when it comes to the game. Gameplay is next but graphics can be piss poor as long as the story excels. The story is so bad and filled with holes and silly character choices, unnecessary deaths, and the game is there to promote an agenda through its creator, Neil Druckmann. This is easily the worse game I've played through in years.
6835) It’s reeeeeallly bad; severely unplayable and shoddy story. It’s actually upsetting that Neil Druckman ruined Naughty Dog.
6836) Poorly written story based on an agenda that does the old game no justice at all
6837) took an incredible franchise and managed to spoil it, the focus of the game which is the story is just ridiculous
6838) i can't keep playing, i am bored out of my mind. i don't care about anyone which is shocking because in part 1 i cared so much about everyone, this is an insult to us fans. i am so angry i can't refund this trash. the game forces me to do things i don't want to do, then spits in my face. i hate it so much and i want Neil to explain himself. also Troy who asked us to "keep an open mind" about what?? i need an explanation to this trash. Niel was worried he'd **** up the sequel to the greatest game ever made. and now he can see it, how he RUINED it. i said it before and i say it again, those critic reviews who gave the boring long meaningless game 10/10 got paid by him, or they didn't play the game. because honestly, who can play and finish this boring game? ZERO i give it. i hate that i wasted my money and time.
6839) The worst game i ve ever played in my entire life.I waited it for 7 years and it s just TRASH
6840) A clunky and unpleasant game. I had to watch a scene that is way to graphic and grossed me out, had to sit through my favorite character dying, had to sit through a wacky and zany plot that was so far from the first one I wanted to vomit.
6841) Seriously, I don't remember that I paid for a **** and **** disgusting gay porn, or lesbians or whatever creatures they are! The reviewers are paid to say this game is good! It sucks and it's worst game from Sony!
6842) Everything built up in the previous game was destroyed here. Side characters weren't memorable, story made no sense, and the ending was absolutely garbage.
6843) So much violence for little substance. Bad story telling with uninteresting new characters. The main focus is pushing abnormal behaviors and making as if it was normal.
6844) Stop putting zero notes to the game you don't even play the dumb deep lol you suck guys you have a big problem in you head!
6845) nice boat!,Great music,good graphics,everything  looks no bad,just not a good game
6846) Just another example of people thinking they can hamfist whatever they want into a franchise and think it's the best thing in the world simply because they're the ones who made it
6847) Terrible, i mean just terrible, cant even say how they killed joel in such a disrespecting manner, he knew the ambush from tlou but why in the hell did he say his real name in some peoples base and what the frick was he even doing there in the first place, nd dumbed joel and im afraid hes smart as a bundle of sticks
6848) Thoroughly disappointed with the story. Graphics are the best the PS4. ONLY GRHAPICS
6849) Wtf, she killed Joel and her friends, took both fingers off so she couldn't play the guitar, last Joel memory she haves, and she spared her wtf,Graphic is the only good thing of this piece of ****
6850) Overrated game plus they kill the story & they came late in time for the fans of the series like me and they destroyed the characters the only good thing is the gameplay just the gameplay
6851) The gameplay is boring and monotonous. The plot is terrible and uninteresting. The AI sucks and most enemies are reused often, with a plethora of bugs. The only redeeming quality about this game is the character models and voice acting.
6852) I cannot believe how bad they ruined one of the best franchises gaming has ever seen. This will go down in history as one of the biggest F ups ever.
6853) Stupid screenwriter+Stupid politically correct=Just ****  game.Maybe this is the worst game for naughty dogs
6854) SJW game, joel killed like a dog, playing as joel's killer is retarded, overall disappointed I expected more from naugthy dog.
6855) This game shows us again why we shouldn't believe early critic reviews.,There are few steps how poor game changes into good game.,,1. Maker side(devs, distributions, and all partakers) gives money friendly medium and someone called "critic"(and I just want to call them "Swindler side") who are positive to their money.,,2. Swindler side writes critic that are very positive to bad game with no playing whole game.,,3. When all underwriting session is over, poor game received highly overrated metascore like 95.,,4. Lastly, if faithful worshiper who loves certain game series zealously and someone who are absorbed in PC deeply provide support that game, poor game will be a masterpiece.,,As all you can see, this result is TLoU2.,,Story? ruined. bunch of **** with being contaminated PC.,The Last of Us 1 shows us how stereo typed-zombie games become well-made game with splendid story. We got touched through universality related humanism and paternal love what Joel gives Eille under desperate situation.,,--- Spoilers ---,,but what about TLoU2? Joel became protector of LGBT. Joel became golf ball and died in vain. Eliie dig up his corpse and behead it in her memory. muscular girl who killed Joel roamed fields and destroyed everything all time with no clear purpose... what do you want to tell us, scenario writer? I think if he shows STRONG Abby's behind story, gamers will understand her motivation naturally in his delusion. That is his intention clearly. but No. No one understand this bad story.,,how about Graphic, sound? Not bad, but we just want a consecutive good scenario, not collateral things. Good graphic and sound make a game more remarkable when game is totally good.,,TLoU series is dead. 2 killed 1 as Abby killed Joel.,DO NOT BUY  this game and save your money. I think you can spend your money more wisely.,Contaminated metascore can't deceive gamers no longer.
6856) Look. I'm gonna keep it simple. Story 1 / 10. Voice acting 10/10. Gameplay 5/10. Graphics 6/10. A huge disappointment. I don't recommend. Game reviewers are worthless
6857) The absolute and complete destruction of what made last of us one of the best games of all time is apparent. An agenda focused clown of a director, terrible writing, and the disrespect of one of the most beloved characters of this generation show a complete disconnect or disregard from and for the fans of this classic game universe.,,The utter disgust I felt seeing the direction they went with this game gave me a new kind of rage I didnt think possible. I've never written a review of anything before but this, this has beyond justified it. And I wish I could say that because its it's good. Save your money, this game is practically masochism incarnate.
6858) Wow, i expected pure SH1T and the game delivered! I am amazed! Wow! disgusting!
6859) Generic Uncharted spin-off with copy/paste third-person shooting mechanics, ugly, soulless visual design, and a misery-porn story filled with all sorts of homophobic slurs, that exploits the suffering of queer people for profit, bankrolled by slavedriving union-busters.,,Instead of buying this AAA garbage, you should buy UNDER NIGHT IN-BIRTH Exe:Late[cl-r], available for PS4, PC, and Nintendo Switch!,,It's important to support smaller developers, because their games aren't movies!,It's even more important to support developers who *don't* force their employees to work 90 hour weeks!,,PLAY UNICLR. Or SkullGirls. And Them's Fightin Herds, also.
6860) The graphics are good, animations are good.  Its a shame the awful story ruins it.  Its clear the reason certain things happen is because of the games LGBTQ agenda.   If you play the game, you can clearly see the hate towards males and male protagonists. This game had so much potential, but a political agenda clearly got in the way.
6861) Absolutely terrible. I cannot play it after the first few hours. It's truly disgusting playing this.
6862) Money plus Psuedo-Social Justice equals a 95 metacritic rating.............
6863) I am never going to financially recover from this. What a terribly written game for a video game that’s about... story telling.
6864) Hot garbage. Years of waiting for total trash. Liberal mania rampant throughout. Just let gamers play.
6865) I agree that some of the best games main characters must die but there are ways to make it epic, the way is done here just leaves you a bad aftertaste get a 0 for the story
6866) Great graphics but not great enough to save it from the terrible story. Highly disappointed. Would not recommend.
6867) NWO. How to destroy a whole story mixing politicians issues and video games
6868) What a piece of garbage. Spits on the fans and the characters, all to pander to SWJ nonsense
6869) I love it. One of the best games I've ever played. Please don't be a jerk and rate this game higher than other players.
6870) 7 years waiting for irredeemable trash that defiles the original story. How did this happen?
6871) They destroyed the entire story, its a **** It's a nightmare, this need be rewrite.
6872) Just amazing game-play,graphics, lighting, level design but awful story telling and awful ending. Story killed the game entirely for me.
6873) i just finished the game and am immensely disappointed with what I experienced. The game started out okay but gradually degraded in terms of story telling, which was a huge let down due to all the 10/10 reviews I saw being gloated by people online which i now am questioning... The story was terribly written and seemed forced to fit some agenda. The game play was decent but didn't evolve much, The only other positive thing i can say were the graphics but for a series that is known for it's story, this was an abomination of story writing and i regret buying it.
6874) Trash. The story and ending just bad. Never buy this game. They should not continue the first part.
6875) Good game, good story, I was shocked by the way the writer told the story. A man who killed a firefly should die like that.so I think the judges would be unfair if the game of the year wasn't this.
6876) No one is mad about the games use of trans and lgbtq characters. We are mad because they did Joel dirty. Yes he deserved to die for basically sacrificing humanity for Ellie, but not like that man. They introduce a character no one knows anything about. Just to have that person kill one of the main character of the previous game. By beating his head in with a golf club. At least give us an hour or two of game play with Abby. That way we can start to understand her rage. The devs rushed it leaving the players with nothing, but rage after watching the character they loved get beat to death. Not being able to do anything to stop it. Then the ending come and finally we can kill Abby. We can have avenge Joel’s death. And the Devs say NO they don’t give you an option to kill her. You just let her go she’s set free. All that build up for nothing just a clear set up for a third game. Awful just awful don’t waste your money on this game.
6877) So sad to see a good franchise die. What was TLOU 1 even for if it meant the characters backstory and gravitas were to be pushed aside so casually. This is cry worthy.
6878) The story is literally the biggest f*ck you to the fans of the first game, this stupid company trying to push an agenda to please twitter, people that genuinely give this game a 10 can get gold clubbed
6879) Haven't gotten a single complaint about the graphical marvels Naughty Dog always has managed to put down.,Story-wise, this game? Sorry... the graphics won't redeem Neill Druckmann's actions and decisions.
6880) Really really really disappointed at the story. It does not worth my time and money. It is not Part 2 of The Last of Us.
6881) Don’t trust the paid for critics. As usual it’s the real people playing the games that give the honest opinions. If you loved the original characters you will be seriously disappointed with this sequel. So called creative director Neil Druckmann has trolled loyal fans by delivering the complete opposite of what they wanted. Joel and Ellie might as well not be in this game. If you really cared about those characters (like I did) then give this a hard pass.  The level of narcissism shown by Druckmann is unfathomable. I cannot imagine how he was allowed to derail what could have become a billion dollar franchise. This game will be bought by many loyal fans and like me they will feel betrayed by the false advertising and the blatant lies that tricked them into parting with their money. Sure the game has pretty graphics and smooth game play but beyond that it is soulless. It desperately attempts to be clever by forcing you to commit acts of atrocity and then preaches to you about how awful this is... it’s moronic, patronising and simply fails on every level. The female writer that delivered the brilliant original had no hand in this utter garbage and it shows. I will never buy anything remotely connected to Neil Druckmann ever again. I sincerely hope that his career is over. Don’t waste your time or money, Ghost of Tsushima is coming out soon and then CyberPunk is following later on this year. My advice is to save your money for what are much more likely to be quality entertaining titles. Or if you really need an apocalypse fix and haven’t yet played Days Gone, it’s definitely worth a look, it’s the entertaining sequel that this game should of been.
6882) This is absolutely one of the worst direction for the story that they have gone. Complete disconnect from the original story and what made that game good. The decision making and the choices made at Naughty Dog has gone so downhill in this game that it almost doesn't feel like it was real, but unfortunately it is. Naughty Dog has made back to back great games with the Uncharted Franchise and the Jak and Daxter franchise. The first time they dropped the Last Of Us was a great addition to their story telling, character introduction that were relatable, caring, having there ups and downs. They were likable, intelligent and unpredictable. Here, in The last of Us Part 2 all of that just gets thrown out the way and instead they focus on a message they completely draws the game away from what it was mean't to be; A journey between two characters facing challenges, meeting new people and faced with new problems in a interesting world of the infected that has taken over the world and mutations that are terrifying and unique. In addition to that, the gameplay is more or less the same as the first game except with revamped animations that flow better and new way to brutalize your opponents, but this can only bring the game so far. You have over 10+ hours of this game and it's the same thing that consists over and over only with a different layout. So you'll get good enjoyment after 3 hours but after the remaining 7+ hours you have to sit there and chore yourself over getting through the game. In conclusion this game is NOT a MUST PLAY. It is far from that. A MUST play is a game like God of War, Uncharted, and or Horizon Zero Dawn, i would literally RATHER PLAY A XBOX TITLE then play this game and that's coming from a 15 year PlayStation user.,,My message to Naughty Dog or Neil Druckmann after this dumpster fire is from the words of a good game ( God Of War ) : Do not be sorry. Be better.
6883) Best graphics, soundtrack, gameplay, voice acting but the story destory everything.,WTF
6884) Completely threw the story into the garbage with this game. Horrible. SAVE YOUR MONEY
6885) I am very stupid to have paid anything and to wait so many years for a horrible continuation like this, because the political themes and were ridiculously hyped with the outcome of the story, total disappointment.
6886) Big D. Sorry . Last of Us is supposedly a game that tells two main characters will stays each other no matter what. It is in the title. Last of us. Killing off a main character for the sake of having a story to go on is a BIG D for me.
6887) Don't even need to waste time on useless criticism, Neil Drakman and his team have already shown how they feel about criticism, they don't care. These dudes just spent a bunch of human resources, time, energy and money going nowhere. In addition, they spent the trust and hopes of the fans and exchanged them for easy money to please current political trends, which are aimed at separating people so that people have reasons to hate each other. So this is not a game anymore, just show how you feel about this "game" because if you keep silent it will go on.
6888) Naughty Dog takes what its fans loved about the first game and casts it aside in favor of cheap shock value. I don't agree with the reviews stating the game is bad because of identity politics; the most criminal thing about this game's development is actually the glorification of misery and violence. The story lacks any satisfaction in any context.,,Naughty Dog had the nerve to claim the game's overall dark tone is revolutionary, but creating a depressing game is nothing new. Usually, there is a satisfying story and a sense of hope to make up for the bleak setting; however, you will not find them here.
6889) This game is basically a father beating and killing his kid in front of the world, while yelling:," THIS IS MY SON, I CAN DO WHATEVER THE **** I WANT!  "
6890) Very bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad i will delete this game is so bad boring gameplay no thing new
6891) Having played Last of us 1, I can say I was very exited when a sequel was announced. So much hype for this dumpster fire. They try to make you feel for Abby, but horrible failed at it. I hated her, hated being forced to play as her, hated Ellie sparing her, and absolutely hated how a hardened survivor like Joel was done in like that. I’ll just replay the first one and pretend this one is just a horrible joke.
6892) Why?..... Just why? Mind-numbing and preachy and a far jump from what the original game used to be.
6893) 9.9 out of 10 fine art. Lost 0.1 point because it's a little bit lack of craftsmanship than my all time masterpiece the Last Jedi, just a little bit.
