1) Out of 100s games I have played since I was 7, only a handful of games I considered as a "masterpiece". Games like Bioshock, Bloodborne; Games that tell a story that is worth to be told.,,The Last of Us 2 is one of them.,,I am not a huge fan of TLOU 1 (and I know it is a great game in every way) but TLOU 2 is different. It is very different in its theme. I can see why there are so many people are so angry at the game and I believe most of people who playing will be angry at one point of the story but it's intentional and essential.,,I don't usually write reviews but this one is for telling anyone who reading this, if you are interested in playing this, just play and decide for yourself. Just aware that it's not a game that will "entertain" you but it's a game that will make you feel and hopefully, think about its theme.
2) Simply the best game of the generation and one of the best games ever made that's all
3) As a fan of the tlou game series, I expected more from this version, but in some ways I was disappointed and tried to analyze what happened. The storytelling could have been better , like tlou 1, but unfortunately it did not happen.  , But I still love tlou and this is still a masterpiece and I hope tlou 3 is better.
4) Special register to write a review.,,It is a masterpiece, better then 1st game in all places:,Grafics - its almost perfect as is could be,,Battle mechanics - very tough AI and very realistic battles that gives you a wow sometimes when you did not expect something as it never happends in all others games,,Story - its real brutal, harsh, hard to believe, hard to understand their motives and it all comes to a greatest conclusion as it could be wich even takes a place to the Part 3 game (wich would be really-really hard to make better than it is Part 2). You hate and love the heroes and all the way each step is so meaningfull to live with them and understand their choices.,,And i even did not like games with the scary motives and when its possible to scare you in unexpected moments, but after i play 1st game i knew i should try 2nd, and never regret it.,,Yes, there is a lot of rainbow theme, yes, maybe too much, and even, for the fans of original game its too brutal story, but it lookes more realistic in that way, rather it would be another usual and boring happyend...
5) Honestly, after seeing all the hate surrounding this game, when I saw it for sale at Walmart for only 30$, I thought “There’s no way I’m going to like this, but the graphics look good at least”, so I bought it. The game quickly became very addictive, as I played through it within only a few days. And holy **** I did not expect to enjoy it as much as I did. The characters are up there with Red Dead Redemption, and I took a very quick attraction to the characters, finding their personalities to be just so damn good. The storytelling is on par with God of War, if not surpassing it, and the events left be teary for days. I had played the first game so many years ago, and can safely say (although it may be because I have grown more mature and have grown to enjoy storytelling more), that I enjoyed this installment much more than the first, and that’s saying a lot.
6) I thought it was fantastic (mileage may vary),Before I can say anything I feel there is a real problem with how people are rating this with a game, as far as I can tell the main issue people have is with the story. Which is fine it’s not going to be everybody’s cup of tea, it did feel like it was a specific artistic vision rather than just going for a story more designed for a mainstream audience that everyone will like but will be blander. However the story is just one (admittedly big) part of the game, and to give it 0/10 because you didn’t like the story while ignoring all the other aspects (graphics, technical aspects, performances, soundtrack etc.) then you just look like a baby throwing their toys out the pram cause you didn’t get the story you specifically wanted. Maybe if you’re not emotionally mature enough to be able to assess something as a whole and just freak out cause you’re upset, maybe that lack of emotional maturity it why some of the story is lost on you. (By the way, I’m not saying if you didn’t like the story it is cause you aren’t emotionally immature),My thoughts on it:,Story- I can see why people may not have liked it but I personally loved it. Just try not to go in with too many expectations.,Gameplay- Is a great evolution from the first game, definitely improved a great deal but still isn’t anything too special. Just fairly basic stuff done really well with a few additional features to spice things up. If you enjoy the gameplay of ND games you’ll like this basically.,Graphics/ Technical- Games looks amazing and I had no issues whatsoever with it. Ran smoothly, no crashes and no noticeable glitches or bugs (my personal experience),Performances- All the cast were great, some very powerful performance even if you didn’t like the story I don’t think you can say the cast didn’t do a great job.,Soundtrack- There were a few stand out tracks and songs but for the most part it remained unnoticed in the background which is really what it is meant to do.,There was also just so much attention to detail and small details throughout it made the experience so much better. If you did hate the story / game I would say maybe give it some time and get some distance then maybe try it again, especially if you were a fan of the original.  You might be able to enjoy it for what it is upon reflection. I do genuinely believe in the long term this game will be looked on positively (like MGS2) but if you still don’t like it that cool, not everyone has to like everything, just try and judge it fairly and as a whole.
7) The atmosphere is pretty dark, definitely not a happy game. I think the most important part „to enjoy“ the game is that you need to allow yourself to engage in the story. The game makes you feel all the and we need to question our own actions, which makes it special in my eyes.
8) I LOVED THIS GAME. No game has ever made me think as much. Its not a basic revenge plot. I feel like its one of the most complex videogames i have ever played
9) One of the best game that i ever play. Masterpiece. Strong story incredibile gameplay.
10) Might have been the best game ive ever played. I have no idea why anyone would dislike this masterpiece
11) Another masterpiece, many of the users here hate the game just because of Abby, and the way she brutally Joel.  The story is so amazing and leaves you wanting to tell people about it.,Story: 10/10, Gameplay: 10/10, Graphics 10/10.
12) I look at all negative ratings, and realize that people don’t understand the philosophy of this game. Come on it is very good story. Yes, I didn’t like Joel’s dead, but only this gives us this kind of emotions. “There is no vaccine”
13) One of the best games out there. I definitely recommend it to everyone who has a PS4 or PS5
14) I have read all the bad news and I was also sceptical, but finally this game blew my mind and exceeded my expectations by far. It turned out to be the best game for me of all times
15) It was a ride... After **** on this game cause I was ignoring story like a big dumbass... I finished it 2 times (playing for 3rd right now) and completed everything... I was listening to story what game want to tells me... And now the story make sense...,I am glad I changed my mind about this game...  And gave it another shot.,Now I can finally say....,This is a best game of 2020!
16) I'm giving this game a 10 because none of these haters want to give a proper rating. Let's get the easy parts away. This is the best looking game I've ever played and it's still on PS4. The music is a pure masterpiece, the voice acting, motion capture and facial expressions are so realistic. The combat is way better than the first game, we don't have Ellie from the first game literally running into the bad guys without being seen. And now, the story. People are still talking about it today because sometimes, the most controversial art is the most beautiful. The story left me speechless in tears, depressed for a whole month and no other game has ever done that to me.,,First of all, we're gonna talk about Joel's death. While I can understand why some people think it doesn't make sense, that Joel was given way too easy to Abby, coincidences, etc. I don't think that really matters at all. The death scene was absolutely ruthless, I was shocked and angry. But I kinda asked myself: "Why was Abby so angry at Joel in the first place?" and I wanted to give her a chance. Also, they are living in an apocalypse where everyone does good and bad things in order to survive. Joel's death was the main part of the game.,,Abby's part. People were quite angry they had to play as her. Naughty Dog never wanted you to feel sympathy for Abby or to like her character, they just wanted you to see her perspective and why all of this happened. This is the part where I realized the statement I made earlier that everyone does anything to survive and to keep their loved ones safe. No one is the antagonist in this story. In fact, Ellie and Abby are very similar to each other. I can find connection between Abby and Joel as well (caring about a loved one, Abby cares for Lev, Joel cares for Ellie). Abby wanted to risk her life and betray her group in order to save Lev, Joel made a selfish decision too by saving Ellie. We also realize that Marlene actually didn't want the surgery to happen. The doctor (Abby's father, who was killed by Joel) also didn't like it, but it was his only chance to try and develop a cure.,,What I noticed is how everyone was happy with all the brutal stuff Ellie did, but I think they missed the point of the game. I think Naughty Dog wants to show you how much pain Ellie caused (pretty much killed all of Abby's friends). Even though Nora was quite an **** I was quite worried for Ellie when she was raging while killing her with that pipe. As well as killing Owen and Mel, who was actually pregnant. Ellie even decided to leave, but Abby found her. The fight scene against Ellie was brutal and quite uncomfortable. It's just like the Nora part. Naughty Dog makes you PLAY the decisions your character made even though those decisions are really bad. It's a cool touch in my opinion. The fact that I had to choke Ellie while spamming the square button really shattered me.,,The ending. Finally, Ellie is seemingly in a good spot with Dina and her child. She is trying to live a normal life, but her PTSD is kicking in all the time. The only memory of Joel that pops in her head is Joel dying on the floor, beaten (notice how Abby used to have nightmares about her dad as well). Tommy comes in one day and tells her where Abby is currently at. Ellie refused to go but the next night she decides to leave. Dina was very disappointed and Ellie probably felt bad as well, but she couldn't take it anymore. She finally gets to Abby, who's also beaten. They get into a fight and then, one of the most controversial parts of the game comes in. Ellie lets Abby leave. A lot of people thought that the whole game was pointless because of that, but I disagree. Ellie learned a lesson. Ellie noticed how Abby was taking good care of Lev. While Ellie was choking Abby, she flashed to Joel, perfectly fine and healthy, for the first time. She remembered a conversation she had with Joel where she told him that she wants to try forgive him for what he's done. But in order to forgive Joel, she has to forgive Abby because they were all put in the same situation. Abby stopped having nightmares after she met Yara and Lev. She started caring about someone else and let her father rest as a good memory. There's so much more I can talk about this game, but I think that's all I wanna say right now. What a journey it has been.
17) I finished the story last night, and I see some of these bad reviews. It is almost like we didn’t play the same game.,,The Last of Us Part 2 captures human faces and emotion like nothing else I have played. The feeling of survival and fighting for your life was insane in the first game, and with this one Naughty Dog cranked it up as far as they could go. Do you remember the scene in 28 Days Later when Jim is running around and desperately fighting the soldiers? That is what the combat feels like, it is intense, savage and probably the most visceral I have ever experienced in a game. No joke- every character has a name, even the dogs- this gives real weight to the violence and makes everything feel more personal.,,One thing I felt about the first game was that there was a lot of fighting against people and less against infected. This one gets the balance perfectly, and the creature designs are horrifying in the best possible way. The fight against the repulsive Rat King in the hospital basement is a boss battle for the ages.,,The exploration and level designs are so detailed and well put together. You can spend hours taking everything in while you search for supplies. Make sure you search everywhere because you might find something that will save you when you next get into a fight. Not only that, but the exploration gives you a chance to further absorb this amazingly detailed and realised world. The graphics are outstanding.,,In a world where we are getting constant re-hashes of female characters from the past- lets give this evil character a sympathetic backstory! The Last of Us 2 gives us two incredible female leads in the form of Ellie and Abby. These are characters who fit perfectly within the morally grey confines of this game world. So many people are going on about how this game is pushing a political agenda- that is ridiculous, and I bet you that these are the guys who always use Ripley from Alien as their only example of a good female character. Okay, maybe they will mention Sarah Connor in the same breath. The reality is that the two lead performances are awards worthy, and the characters are deep and complex- everyone has their reasons and there is empathy for both sides. You will find yourself emotionally invested like you would a great film, and the goosebumps on your arm will reflect that.,,Some people lost their minds over Joel in this game and it makes me wonder- do they remember the first game? He changed the future of humanity to satiate his ego. He didn’t tell Ellie what he did, and he lied to her because he knew that he had made the wrong choice. The way he dies is in keeping with the world and the character. The Last of Us isn’t heroic gunfights and honour. No, he was ambushed and bashed in. It is grim, horrible, and totally in keeping with the feel of this world. He had it coming. He had done so many awful things and changed the fate of the entire world for the worse. Joel’s final decision at the end of the last game was unforgivable, and he knew it. People say that Joel has changed, and he is not the same guy from the first game- he kept the secret for years. He softened a little because he was looking for redemption. He never got it, and he did not deserve it.,,The sequel explores the consequences of Joel’s choice, the lie, and its impact on his relationship with Ellie. Which in turn makes Abby’s storyline gripping. Abby makes for a compelling playable character, her life had been changed by Joel’s actions and she handled revenge just like Joel would have. In this way, they are similar people who will do anything for those they love.,,Finally- if you still have any trepidation with getting this game, ask yourself one very important question: am I going to listen to these people, many of which have suspect reasons for hating it- or am I going to listen to almost every reputable reviewer (look at reviews from proper gaming magazines, most of them are golden) there is? You are only doing yourself a disservice by not playing it.
18) Emotional, brutal, heartwarming, funny and scary.,This game has it all!,Stunning environments and characters excellently cared for.,Excellent game mechanics.,Spectacular soundtrack.,,Kids, don't get too excited if you don't understand much about video games, there are other games that are right for you.
19) İts one of the best games ı ever played the characters motion and the mvp’s aftrical intellenge is not the best but better lots of game.
20) One of the best game of all time. Love the story, the unexpected plot twists, the graphics and the music.
21) Simply one of the best games I ever played. Grate gameplay and even better story.
22) This game is just a masterpiece. Every aspect of the game is perfect and beautiful in tis own way. To play this game you have to be open minded and from the start to the bottom. HATERS MAADDDD,GOTYGOTY 2020
23) One of the best games ever made, hoping to see the next game from Naughty God.
24) Perfection. This is the best game of all time. It will be years before a game can bet better than this.
25) One of the greatest games ever made. Every game play element from the 1st game has been improved and updated in this game. The story, acting, script etc is a step up from anything I have experienced in a video game before. The level of thought and care that has gone into making this is game is staggering. For me, it is the best video game I have ever played. Naughty Dog - don't ever change.
26) This is a depressing game. Regardless, It has such a creative, innovative, and distinct approach to storytelling, and the gameplay takes huge strides to give the player a realistic and deeply disturbing experience that ties into the messages.,The story is masterful in how it guides the player through the emotions of the characters, only to make you step back and observe the consequences of your actions. The story definitely isn't for everyone, but it's memorable and masterfully stacked up to a conclusion that leaves you thinking for days. As someone who's played it four times since launch, I can confidently say that the more you understand each character and the more time you spend exploring their motives the more you will enjoy it.,When it comes to gameplay, the leap from the first game in animation, 3d sound, enemy dialogue, and atmosphere make it the most harrowing, realistic experience I've ever seen. This is a game best experienced while completely immersed. Enemies will have unique names, and they'll communicate with each other based on the situation. The more immersed you are, the more satisfying the gameplay will be. In addition, the game is capable of making you feel many different kinds of fear, although it's definitely not a horror game. The brutality of the gameplay combined with the story take the player on a distinct emotional journey.,The score is very subtle, but it's also phenomenal not just in terms of composition but also motifs, which reinforce the story and the thoughts of the characters. Props to Gustavo Santaolalla for the emotional story-driven music, and to Mac Quayle for providing the oppressive combat and stealth music that contribute so much to the atmosphere.,Visually, this game is on par with Uncharted 4, God of War, Red Dead Redemption 2. It's amazing how well Naughty Dog optimizes the experience, and the visuals are striking and beautiful. The game has been free of bugs for me as well.,The acting is top notch, with incredible performances from Troy Baker, Ashley Johnson, and Laura Bailey, along with the vast supporting cast of characters.,In summary, this is an emotional journey that explores revenge from many perspectives. It goads the player on, only to make them regret their actions later. The story is controversial, but I thought it was incredibly well thought out and executed. The gameplay is tense, realistic, violent, and purposeful. With great music, graphics, performances, and more, this is a truly unforgettable experience.
27) Don't listen to the gAmeR reviews from people raiding due to manufactured trend created by aNti sJw conservflakes spread throughout the youtube.,,Play it yourself and decide it's a masterpiece for me,,Unbelievable graphics,Gripping story,Detailed gameplay mechanics,10/10
28) I don't understand the players who give low ratings, the presentation of the story is at the highest level, the quality of the product is at the highest level, for me personally this is a very strong story that left a mark in my heart, I want to say to the developers, thank you very much for such an exciting adventure, thank you very much!,This is my subjective opinion.
29) Played original game and sequel back to back. It was an emotional rollercoaster jumbled with outstanding game play like nothing I experienced ever before.,,Story in the sequel cuts deep emotioanlly and though I LOVED the experience, the story itself was so dark and affective It really beat me up emotionaly. I hardly can say this about any game I played before.,,Magnificent sequel!
30) Incredible narrative if you haven’t had the main story beats spoiled. Fluid gameplay, great interface, dialogue, and melee system for a fairly short but dense experience
31) Best game ever.the story,graphic,gamplay and soundtrack they all are perfect
32) The most amazing game in so many ways. Story, characters, surprises, graphics, environments...,Its a must play, and a ride you'll never forget. Extremely emotional and brutal. I loved it. LOVED it. And I'm not even a fan of linear games...
33) Great game! Awesome story. One of The best ever. I don’t get why “people” are so mad? It is a great continuity story. Brutal? Yes. Shocking? Yes. It is supposed to be. Because writers thought so. They didn’t want to create Diva channel Christmas story with magical happy endings and la la las. It is a rough world. Crazy world. Everything has fallen apart. People have gone mad. Have done crazy **** in order to survive. And in the middle of all that craziness there is a beautiful love story between father and adopted daughter. But, what about love story between Abby and her caring and loving dad? Did he deserve to die? What was Abby, some time ago a innocent little girl, supposed to to? To forgive?,,This story explores people’s everyday bias. Is it ok to kill one human being in order to save all humanity? Is it ok to go on a killing spree as Joel and Ellie but not as others? Why is everything revolving around us ok but not for others? Should Abbys father kill his own child in order for humanity to survive. This game makes us look both sides of the same coin. Same destiny. Ask thousands of questions. At first I hated Abby. Of course I did. Story made me. I was so immersed in Joel and Ellie. But, after a while I started to understand her. Her motives. Her desires. Her revenge. Her life. She was not a bad guy. In this not-normal world.,,This game give us a profound intro in human soul. And deserves 10 stars. And people out there, I have a message for you: if you hate this game so much, start asking yourselves why?,,P.s. internet has ruined everything.
34) I've started this game with some major prologue spoilers, but i still managed to like it soo much, that even now, 2 weeks after finishing the game, i watch playthroughs and think about all it's aspects. 10/10 masterpiece.
35) Simply  the best game in history 10 on 10 for everything (game play, graphic, soundtrack, animation, environments and story) and specially for story every game has own story and you have to accept this fact.
36) Great game, with some minor flaws. But apparently it's "cool" to hate this game so everyone parrots the same nonsensical arguments and rate it negatively without playing it. It's flawed yet the most effective take on revenge story I know. Strong 8/10 with possible 9/10 on replay. *After thinking about it for a week I find that the story is actually perfect, only tiny problem with this game is slight gameplay pacing issue in few sections of the game. Therefore changing rating to 9/10 ** After playing through this game twice it's impossible to rate it with anything but 10.
37) I have played the game for second (third time now, almost 65 hours of gameplay) time now in survivor+, my first vote for this game was a 4... and now i think it deserves a 8 (and now a **** 10...), not my favorite end for sure, but i understand now so much better the abbys and lev character, the similitudes with Joel and ellie are a lot of.... its a good end? yes, but we need a part 3, we need to end the immunity of Ellie in some way...,,So...,,Graphics: 10/10,Music: 10/10,Animations: 12/10,Gameplay 10/10,Story & Narrative?: Is up to you,,This game is a masterpiece
38) Will never understand why this game is hated by so many. The story is fantastic despite a few minor flaws. I was never bored so the pacing wasn't an issue for me. People are salty about Joel's death but he was no hero.
39) Drukman is genius. This is a very good game: high quality, a lot of meaning if you r able to think.
40) I know this was hard. Joel was one of the best characters in this game. What they did was not right. But I have to admit the game play, graphics, character model all running on a PS4 without any glitches is mind blowing and It was the creators freedom to do this to their story. But, Overall this game was so emotional and awesome.
41) Wow, this game is brutal. After playing the first the last of us, i thought I would never play a game at the same level. How wrong was I. The game has breathtaking graphics ("you´re breathtaking") and a fluid gameplay. The game is not fun, it´s not supposed to be. That´s what some people don´t realise. The game shows us how cruel the reality is. Not everything happens the way people want and people that you love die. This game is a search for revenge and what a person can do to get it. I love Ellie, but the reality is that she is not the same Ellie we knew. She killed everyone in her way, including Abby´s best friends. And even though she killed them, Abby let her and Dina go. And she went after her again leaving everything behind. The ending was very emotional, when Ellie let Abby go, we saw a little bit of hope, we saw Ellie as a human and not as the cruel thing she had become. In the end we see the Ellie again leaving the farm with a unknown path, leaving the possibility of a The last os us Part 3. I have hope.  The Last of Us 2 is the best game i have ever played.
42) A very emotional game.,,I completed The Last of Us 1 like 5 or 6 years ago. I didn't read any news, leaks, or comments about the sequel going in. So my perspective is completely untainted.,,At first, I was very shocked and upset about what the devs decided to do to Joel. I didn't have a problem with him dying. He did kill a bunch of innocent people in the first game, so I wasn't surprised karma would bite him eventually. I have a problem with him dying so soon. It's an enormous waste of a character, that was built up so meticulously from the first game. To me, he was the main character. The back bone to the story. I felt they could have done so much more with Joel, before killing him off. Maybe he gets captured, or something like that. Anything to build on his character more, and it could have increased Ellie's desperation and urgency. I felt it was a missed opportunity, story-wise.,,After his death, I had a lot of doubts for what they could possibly do to keep me interested. Just like how I can't watch Simpsons without Homer, or Family Guy without Peter. Last of Us without Joel? How? As I progressed, the flashbacks Ellie had of Joel felt absolutely endearing. Bittersweet. A large part of that feeling stems from knowing Joel's gone. It was sad, but in a good way. Kind of like Game of Thrones, minus the ending. People died. It was a tragedy, but it made me love it more. Ellie's flashbacks heightened my need to pursue the killers, and find out why they did it. When I finally got to Abby, I honestly felt a bit sorry for her, after what Ellie did to her friends. At this point, she honestly had nothing. Killing her would have felt empty. I was ready for some answers. Then the game throws me in the shoes of Abby. Instead of a dramatic cutscene, the game put me directly in her shoes so I could see her side. And after seeing it, I completely understand where she's coming from. She went to kill Joel, to avenge her father. A logical reason. Not ethical. But reasonable. I didn't hate Abby anymore. Suddenly, I didn't know whose side I was on. And in the final chapter of the story. The showdown. I was shocked to see the condition Abby was in. I was extremely curious to see how this would affect Ellie's actions. The way it played out was perfect. Heartbreaking. So much emotion evoked in that fight. A fitting climax to the amount of **** that has transpired. By the end, I didn't like Ellie or Abby. They both were flawed. But yet, so human.,,And now on to the more technical review...,,Good,,- hand-to-hand combat is good. The enemies attack animation slows down so that I could react with an input in time. This added a reflex test. Unlike a lot of other games where the hand-to-hand combat window was so small that it was usually not possible to react to, and I have to just pre-emptive block, or attack.,,- clickers are so well designed. They make the stealth gameplay so much more tense because you have to walk extra slow behind them, but at the same time you have to make an action quickly when you are within their close proximity or else they will notice you even if you stay still. So it kind of forces you to plan ahead a bit, and when I decide to strike I must go through with it. And if things turn south I have to quickly adapt, either with a stun object, shoot, or run away. In areas with regular infected and clickers, it really adds diversity to the stealth. Infected could see but clickers couldn't, which forced me to use cover cleverly, and choose my targets wisely based on enemy position.,,- the stun and strike combo feel satisfying to land especially when I got it in a tight situation.,,- the distraction to molotov combo is a great alternative to the stealth strats. Since I had to try and gather the infected into a close proximity before I can pull off the group kill. But when I do manage to bait them all together, then Molotov them all, it's a satisfying feeling.,,- the narrative, and voice acting is impeccable. The beginning where Abby and the dude found a city, the story didn't tell me who they were looking for or who Mel was, and what was the history behind these two. It's a mystery that drew me into the story, making me want to find out what what's going on.,,- the balance between defense an offense is perfect. Clickers are one hit KO, and the infected do a decent chunk of damage. So the game does encourage stealth. But if things go south the game also gives ample offensive abilities for me to survive.,,- checkpoints are really well placed. It doesn't bring me back all the way to the beginning but rather the last major encounter which is perfect, because it doesn't forced me to backtrack unnecessary gameplay.,,- I like how for most objects that interact with, my partner automatically chimes in.
43) the best game i have ever played!! This game should win Oscar for the best drama movie/game!,Thanks you naughty dog, 1st time i felt so much different emotions from game! 15/10 !!!!
44) •••,Anyone realizes that this has maybe the best graphics of any game ever, The gameplay is something most people are very satisfied with aswell.,,Though the story is controversial. I loved it, it was so original and I never knew what to expect. They made me understand both Abbey's and Ellie's views and side and that was wonderfully done. People who hate it do so because they are emotionally attached to Joel and hate Abbey for that at the beginning, but if you just think about it Ellie and Joel are probably worse people than Abbey. Still I think both of them have flaws and that is what the game tries to tell you.,,Further are the factions in the game set up beautifully and you can, again, feel for all of them. Some of the levels are super exciting, and so memorable, I feel like there is more of that here than in the original. I would say the entire game is even slightly better than the original.,,No one is perfect, and revenge is kind of pointless. That is what this game tells you and it does that well.
45) Incredible game, the story based on hate is just something else, and the gameplay is the best of a third person shooter game.
46) This is a great game with a great storyline! Every detail is worked out and this is a unique story. I played the game right after I finished the first part of the game. This is by far one of the best games to hit PS4. 10 Point
47) The best game I have ever played.It was compeletly a different story wich you cant see in any game but maybe somebody dont like it. I like it ..... no I love it so much.
48) There's a lot to say about this game because there's so many different things that make it enjoyable to different kinds of players. I'll just briefly mention the 3 most important things that just make this game stand out (in my opinion).,,1: The sheer visual quality of the game.,This game is beautiful. The quality of the graphics is honestly one of the best out there. Its amazing how even running on a PS4 it can push the visual this far (I have the standard PS4, not the Pro). Many times while playing I would just stop and just look at the scenarios, at the way the water changes how skins look, how the plants move dynamically in such a natural way, etc. Everything looks really, really good and really, really real. It's not an open world game, you have specific paths to follow in each part; so the developers were able to focus on every tiny detail of every tiny corner in the game. The characters look phenomenal from a technical standpoint. When I played the first The Last of Us some years ago I was blown away by the visuals, and now, years later, I felt the same again with Part II, even with high expectations. I would pay for this game again if I could play it on a high end PC.,,If you find enjoyment in things simply for their aesthetic value, this game is gonna make you really happy.,,2: Really fun gameplay.,This game is simply fun. The combat evolved a lot from the first game, but it still feels like playing The Last of Us. Even if you don't care about the story, the game is still very entertaining (even though some cut-scenes might feel a bit too long or boring if you're not here for the story). You have a real sense of risk-versus-reward when choosing how to approach enemies. Resources are scarce like in the first game, and sneaking, distracting and ambushing enemies is extremely rewarding and and at the same time nerve-wrecking. Most of the time while sneaking I was at the edge of my seat, listening to steps and movements, nervously planing each new step, trying not to be seen. But when you fail being quite, the combat just becomes brutal. The fights are really intense, being it a ranged gun fight or a close contact combat. Enemies are smart and sometimes unpredictable, but the human enemies' A.I. can just sometimes be a little dumb, but not to the point where it throws you off, while combating the zombies is pretty much like it was on the first game (with a feel surprising exceptions, no spoiler though). You also have puzzles to solve to get through some parts, but they are not too complicated.,,3: Most importantly, the story.,The is where this game stands out the most from the first one. Yes, the visuals are a lot better and the gameplay is more fun, but the story is what makes Part II a proper sequel. I feel like this game is a lot more mature, and the path the writers chose to follow with this story is a lot riskier than what we saw in the first game. Riskier, but so well executed. The writing here is so much better crafted than many movies coming from Hollywood. Characters go through real development (especially Joel), while keeping the same traits that made them unique in the first place. The game drags the player into the characters' shoes, and makes us feel the same pain and burden anyone would be subject to feel in such a post apocalyptic world. Loss is real, and so are the small accomplishments from the characters throughout the game. The theme of vengeance is as present and intense as the theme of forgiveness and acceptance, and every character's decisions are organic and relatable in a way that their actions and and motivations make them feel more human than the realistic graphics were able to. Even the parts that are not surprising or unexpected carry a weight that makes them memorable. The simplicity of the very end of the game makes it perfect. All the internal struggles and battles, the plot twists and narratives that were so carefully written, conclude in a simple, yet beautifully executed end. The way I felt finishing this game for the first time was similar to the way I feel when I finish a good book: first, that weird emptiness inside caused from the realization that it's over; second, the sudden appreciation for every single character we got to know so deeply and every single event we experienced with them. Amazing gameplay and graphics don't cause this feeling, only experiencing a good story for the first time can cause it, and this is what makes this game unique.,,This game is brutal, and yet so beautiful. It was the perfect way to end the PS4 generation, and it just blasts my expectations for the PS5 generation through the roof.
49) Simply a video game masterpiece that improves in every aspect from it's predecessor.
50) Naughty Dog creates stories with video games like no other studio. They proved this with Uncharted, The Last of Us Part I and now with The Last of Us Part II. This video game challenges you as a player, it causes a wide range of emotions. Naughty Dog dared to make unpopular decisions and it paid off. I never played a game like this and I look forward to Naughty Dog's future projects.
51) Haters are going to hate.,,Best graphics of all time, even on this old hound that is the ps4.,,Naughty Dog doesn't owe anyone a story that's expected. They took a bold direction that mirrors a huge issue happening in America right now, hate, division, and a lack of empathy for the other side. Without experience, divisiveness is easy. There is no light without darkness though. Just because the writing goes in a different direction than expected, does not mean it isn't great. Some of the best dialogue in any video game ever can be found here. The writing and acting is incredibly nuanced. There is subtlety and depth that you can't find in other games to this level of professionalism. The themes are dark, but there are beautiful glimpses of hope, joy, and perseverance.,,Even if for some reason you just can't stomach the story, there is no denying that the gameplay and the graphics are amazing. I have a fairly high end PC , and no game touches these graphics even on the relatively weak ps4 pro. RDR2 comes very close, but this has set the standard. There is a level of photo realism that blew me away. At 30fps I never noticed. Naughty Dog are wizards at optimization. Movement is weighted in realism, yet buttery smooth. Zero bugs on my playthrough.,,The level  design is top tier. The environments create an immersive experience that is hard to match without VR. Stealth creates tension, and when all hell breaks loose, the chaos of running through fixed yet open areas creates a uniqueness to everyone's playthrough. The survival element is visceral.,,One of the greatest games of all time.
52) This game is made for to inflict different emotions to you anger sadness happiness with the flash backs of a happier time it’s one of the best games I ever played it has a lot of detail the graphics are movie like gameplay is tough and rough I had trouble playing as Ellie because of her size it made the gameplay amazing for me I always liked having as npc companion with me
53) I really enjoyed the game, yes story might not be as strong as the first one but it’s still an awesome game. Sequels are not easy, rather than prolong the story from first game they went a different direction which was a big risk but in my opinion it worked. I have issues with Joel’s story line but you get Abby without it and they really good job humanizing Abby. Amount of hate online is unreal, I guess some people couldn’t cope with the fact that LGBTQ
54) With an enthralling story, complex characters, interesting gameplay and gorgeous visuals and audio, The Last of Us Part II is probably one of the most polished videogame experiences out there and it’s pretty easy to give it a great score and call it a day. But honestly, thanks to the intense pace, mature subject matter and stressful situations, it may not be for everyone.
55) Don't listen to the negative reviews, unless you're close-minded and don't appreciate an emotionally complex, phenomenally written game. Those who speak of rampant inconsistencies and plot holes, clearly don't understand the definition of either. This is the best PS4 game of the year, period. Like The Wire, which has a great Easter egg in the game, and mask wearing, the enjoyment one receives from this game is something of a litmus test for one's character and intelligence. Chances are if you don't like this game, you're either a big fan of MAGA or suffer from a low IQ and/or EQ.
56) Although I can somewhat understand SOME of the backlash that this game has been getting by fans, I definitely do not agree with it, the original game was so special to me, and the fact that I am debating between the two of these games for which one is my favorite say it all. The Last Of Us Part II might be the most well-crafted game I have ever played, and the game by far, and I mean by far has the most powerful and emotionally shattering stories I have ever played, even months after playing it, I cannot stop thinking about this game, the characters, the gameplay, the graphics, everything about this game screams masterpiece, and it is so clear the amount of work and passion that was put into every little thing for this game. It is the greatest game I have played this entire generation, the only game that even comes close is Red Dead Redemption 2. If you have not played this game because of all the hate and backlash, I urge you to give it a try, odds are it could be one of the most powerful stories you have ever witnessed.
57) My personal Review for The Last of Us Part 2 :,Story:10/10,Graphics:10/10,Music:9/10,Gameplay:9/10,Sound:10/10,This game is a must play, overall a great ~25 hour experience.
58) A masterpiece. This game really deserves to be the game of the year 2020. Good work Naugthy Dog ^^
59) This game is just perfect, i would rate it 9.7, but i can't. So 10 is my rating. If I were in naughty dog I would end the game in 20/22 hours, not 25+  (I'm italian btw)
60) When i played the game for the frist time i was extremely dissapointed. i mean they literally killed Joel and then tried to sell me character that killed him. They made us play fro Abby around 8hours and i hated  every second of it. Today i finished my second playthrough i obviously knew what to expect and i wasn't heavily invested emotionlly like before. Suddenly the game just started making sense to me and i genuinely enjoyed  Abby part . Everything else was masterpiece from the start. Thank Nauighty dog for the work that will never be enough appreciate by the community
61) This is the greatest game of the year. Despite what everyone says. It is a beautiful story about forgiveness, love, loss, revenge and consequences.
62) I guess all the bad reviews of this game show that people don't like stories that go off the beaten path for video games. They just want to save the princess ...,,I'm 42 now, and i have been playing games since i was 14. This game has to be one of the games with the best story i have ever played. It made me think, it moved me, it managed to reach a height that few hollywood movies can match.,,The tension in the game can be very high. At more than one occasion, i simply needed to take a break because my heart was racing.,,This game also portrays death in a way that is never done before. Ellie clearly flinches when she cuts somebodies throat, and you actually sometimes feel sorry for your enemies. The enemies also reference each other with their name. All this adds to the grimness of the game.,,Not only is the story that good, but the technical execution is simply perfect: moving from a platform to a ladder is without hassle, camera behavior will never bother you, the inventory menus are intuitive and even making some ammo in the heat of battle is a breeze.,,All this combined with gorgeous graphics and sound design, and i cannot see why this game does not deserve a perfect 10.
63) The Last of Us Part 2 is a masterful for the PlayStation 4, and arguably the finest, most accomplished project Naughty Dog has ever embarked on. It’s far more than a traditional sequel, taking the original’s core message and expanding upon in ways that will be looked back on as brave, ambitious and undeniably controversial.
64) Game of the generation one of the if not the best gameplay of this year,Story is very good as well couldn't be any better Graphics are outstanding Face animations is on spot
65) I couldn’t wait to have my hands on this game after playing the first one, I did not expect for Naught Dog to do what they did, I was so pissed off and annoyed but I had to play it to the end no matter what.,The ending made me think this whole game made me think which games should do! I agree with the ending unlike most, this game has hidden meaning to it some get it at first like I did and some don’t, don’t hate on the game if you don’t understand it or hate what they done, but look deeper into it.,10/10 amazing game can’t wait to play it again well worth the wait. I just hope they don’t make another one as everything is complete at this point, unless it’s a DLC but to be honest I’ll play anything to do with The Last of Us lol
66) Yep definitely the game of the year. This is a masterpiece. I loved the fact that this game shows how things are not always that simple. A good guy here and a bad guy there. No, that's not how it works. You can't say Abby deserved to die more than Ellie or the other way around. They're both good people just trying to survive in this **** up world. They both became obsessed with this whole revenge thing and they almost forgot who they really are. They're not evil. Perfect ending. On a side note: I loved the queer representation in this game.
67) 10/10 Game of the Year. Great graphics. Technical achievement. Naughty Dog is the best
68) engaging, at times heartbreaking story.,it takes you emotionally.,masterpiece
69) A great game. Very beautiful. To play absolutely. Officially entered my favorite games list.
70) its a must for every player.,realistic story and characters with a fantastic gameplay and graphic.,Don't miss this master piece.
71) One of the greatest games of all time, its the greatest game of our generation and i'm so happy it won game of the year.
72) Loved it! Worthy successor to the 1st which was my all-time-favourite video game. Took around 35h to finish the story, and although I'm not sure I find every decision of every character 100% comprehensible, I think it's a well enough written and delivers exactly what it intends to.
73) Best videogame ever and yet people are blind because they crying about someone's death, but that's how life goes, we don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow.
74) One of my favorite games of all time! The works man ship of this game, is off the chain! Didn’t run into a single issue, polished to the MAX! The gameplay is unlike any other game I have played, never played a game so fluid, it’s insane! & the story is one of the best in any medium, I love the narrative, and how it does things with in its story structure, that I haven’t seen any video game attempt, and Naughty Dog pulls it off unlike any other! Overall, a complete masterpiece.
75) Great game, does not deserve the hate. **** anti sjws acting like man-babies
76) One of the  best  games I have ever played. Amazing graphics, good gameplay, thrilling story and memorable characters makes this game of the best titles on Ps4
77) The best game I've ever played, honestly. Nothing even comes close to the level of detail, polish and quality of storytelling. This game hit me hard like nothing else had. It made me love the first game even more and deepened my investment in this franchise tenfold. This is a divisive game, but you need to play it yourself, don't rely on the opinions of people who've never even touched the game.
78) (Spoilers)The graphics, gameplay, animations and sound design in Tlou2 are one of the best in gaming industry. Gameplay is really fun with all those animations, details, quality AI and solid mechanics. Naughty Dog didn't dissapoint me with games beatiful engaging story. In first 10-15 hours I had a strong hate against Abby. And because of this hatred, I slaughtered all of Abby's friends. But after you start to play with Abby, you realize that no one is the true villian in this world. Abby is just a normal human being with emotions inside her. Abby part is just like first game actually. She starts her story as a soldier but after spending time with Lev she becomes a similar character like Joel. Just like Ellie , Abby wanted to take revenge. And she did it with killing Joel. But killing Joel resulted with Ellie killing all of Abby's friend. All this killing gave birth to a circle of revenge.,,Flashbacks show us Ellie and Joel didn't had good relations before joel died. And Ellie feels guilty because she didn't treated Joel nice before he died. To stop feeling guilty, Ellie uses revenge as a tool. All this drama transformed Ellie into a cold killer. But finnaly in the end she realizes killing Abby will not bring Joel back and will not stop the circle of revenge .With a final flashback Ellie remembers she forgave Joel. Ellie stops feeling guilty ,spares Abby's life and breaks circle of revenge. But it costs her the ability to play guitar (the last thing left from Joel) and Dina. And Ellie once remembers she must contiune to live on.,,The story of the game that I have summarized above is one of the best stories I have ever seen. And combining this story with perfect gameplay results with a mustplay masterpiece. Also sorry for bad English.
79) Best game I've ever played and it is better than the first part.Most beautiful game I've ever played.
80) Pretty excellent and detailed video game. Also, it is a wonderful and complementary sequel.,Will replay again.
81) This was a perfect game in my book. The graphics and gameplay were great and were a good step-up on everything great in LoU. The story for me was a great journey to go through. They chose to go a path which I did not foresee. It is not something that might work for everyone but all character choices are understandable and the way the story is told is the best in any game to date.
82) When Hollywood's finest cinema gets ridiculed for an unprecedented audiovisual experience, pushing hardware to its limits without harshness or clipping. Superb animations, hyper realistic textures in a continuation that puts all the cards on the table and risks telling a tragic story of revenge where the line between loving and hating hardly exists, spiced up with an excellent soundtrack to which we are accustomed ND .
83) time will pass and people will ask: -why this game has such a small rating?
84) Great game, just what I was expecting from this sequel. I don't understand the hate and the low scores.
85) Great job from great studio! Thank you Naughty Dog for this game!!! One of the best games i ever played!
86) One of the best game I ever played, great narrative and excellent gameplay. Excellent video and audio.
87) Masterpiece. Neil Druckmann is a genius. People who are hate this game just mad at Joel death and Abby
88) One of the best games I've played in my entire life. It's even better than the first game that it was already perfect.
89) the game is a spectacle, and most likely it will be the best of the year, the criticisms of Joel's death are for those who were not mature enough to play the game, this is a masterpiece and deserves to win the game awards.
90) First of all i would like to thank naughty dog for this amazing game that not only is the definition  of a sequel is also a memorable and full of emotions journey. Few games did gave me that experience. Great gameplay geat story from start to finish i didnt mind playing with other characters cause that was the beauty of it. Last but not least haters gonna hate and before you play dont judge
91) Great game of **** morons.  Yes, of course, I also expected something different and was very disappointed.  But this game is made at the highest level, the only drawback is perhaps very bad chemistry with all the characters except Joel.
92) This game series is amazing. I love everything about it. I’m actually really disappointed in other players because they don’t see how amazing part 2 was and is. People in my opinion, just can’t see how great it is because of Joel. They have all this hate for Abby too. Which is just stupid because, Abby is actually a great character and more specially the main antagonist, or actually let me say, that maybe Ellie is also a antagonist or maybe an antihero. Ellie did so much wrong in the game too. Abby and Ellie both did. And now they live with that. Which is why Ellie makes her decision to let Abby go. But enough of the story, gameplay is amazing. Sound quality is so great. And the amount of weapons is great too. The way that the combat system evolved too is just great. Also, character development is better, and the actors gave a great performance which I love. Overall great game, just most people are just little crybaby’s
93) 100,Vgames,Jun 12, 2020,"The Last of Us Part II is the perfect combination of an excellent Hollywood movie with a fat budget with fun and flowing gameplay. The phenomenal writing will touch every player and won't leave an eye dry of tears. Combat and exploration are challenging and lead the player to use creativity and improvisation. A real masterpiece and a must-have for every PS4 owner." Hhh
94) As a person that has played nearly 60 hours the game and will continue playing it, I can say that it is a superb masterpiece!! Nostalgia and prejudices aside this is a game wonderfully done , it is clearly and evolution from everything that first one did , better game-play, better graphics, better soundtrack, better storytelling, better narrative and better acting! don´t get me wrong, I loved the first one, but last of us 2 is a massive improvement over everything we saw in the first game. People need to have more perspective over the story and understand was Naughty Dog did with this game and it was amazing!! too many surprises, it was an emotional roller-coaster . I was also impressed with all the details , not only with the scenarios, but the with the sounds . I have to say I have never felt before the emotions and the immersion that this game gives me!  As a gamer you need to accept that this game was executed incredibly , the way they told the story was innovative and they took lots of risks and I absolutely love it for that!! Thanks Naughty Dog for all the work behind doing this game , the passion and the love for delivering something unique , different , thank you for delivering such a masterpiece! Last of Us 2 has been if not the best, one of the best games I´ve played in my more of 30 years of gaming!! Masterpiece!!!
95) The Story game is 10.,The Graphics are 10.,The Sounds are 10.,Details and scope of the game are 10.,I played this game and wasnt any bug.,From:,Taha Nouri, leader of Golden Iran Games team
96) I can tell you, 90% of the people downrating this game on here are either homophobes or lack the emotional maturity needed in order to understand this game. This game is the single best game I have ever played in 40 years of gaming, by a long shot. It is even better than the first, by quite a margin...and I never thought I would say that. To be honest, I am absolutely sure the vast majority on here hating on the game, haven't even played it!
97) Great game! Loved the whole story and made sense every single action of it. anybody who says otherwise maybe are just a bunch of kinds that don't understand that as people grow up so do the characters or maybe they didn't maybe finish the game. The graphics are really amazing.
98) Even though the ending left me empty it was an unbelievable experience. The last of us 2 tells a story wich couldn't be more realistic and a more emotional rollercoaster. This game is pure gold and a perfect sequel.
99) 10/10 gameplay 10/10 graphics 10/10 storyline. i cannot understand hate on this game...
100) masterpiece,Graphics - 10  Music  10, Story -10 ........................................................................................
101) The Last of Us Part II is the best game I have ever played, everything about this game works perfectly, the story is heartbreaking, upsetting and really puts you inside of Ellie's mind and how she feels, the gameplay is basically the same as the first one, but better in just about every way, the new mechanics fit in perfectly,  the graphics, the cinematography of the cutscenes are marvelous. And the acting is one of the best I've ever seen in any game, props to Troy Baker and Ashley Johnson.,The biggest problem that the most of people had (and that brought the review bombing to this page) was about the way it show us homosexuality. The game doesn't shove it in your face, they just took one of the elements that they showed us for the first time in Left Behind (The Last of Us DLC) and they decided to develop it a little bit more, by making this character having a couple that is a girl and is in the whole game.,And the other problem that caused this review bombing was that this game's story is "politically correct" something that I will say that is completely false, because the majority of the things that you do during the story are on the opposite way.,This game isn't for everyone, kids can't play it because of it's brutality, and the adults that should play it need to be open-minded and mature because of all the themes that these work of art show.,This is Naughty Dog's best work to this date,10/10
102) This game is a straight up masterpiece. Don't believe the user reviews as it's a bunch of petulant children who didn't like that the game took narrative risks.
103) A tragedy, profound & meaningful story and extremely unpredictable, full of anger and hatred, revenge and forgiveness, sadness, stress and fear, hope and despair, love, tears and crying and, in one word, phenomenal. A masterpiece game with great gameplay & graphic & music.,Neil Druckmann could easily print money and fight for the maximum satisfaction of the fans of the first part, But he was looking for something more than a game...
104) I've never written a review for a game before, but I felt compelled to write one for The Last of Us Part 2. As I began the game, I already was preparing myself to be let down or disappointed because of the negative stigma the internet has attached to this game. However, I'm so happy I gave it a chance. This story made me feel emotions I've never felt playing a video game. That was the one factor I kept coming back to after finishing the story. This game really made me feel something. I don't want to spoil anything in case someone is reading reviews to see if it's worth it or not, but this story is dark and is constantly displaying acts of cruelty, hate and loss. I understand that this grueling, depressing story is not for everyone and the characters that you lose along the way really take a toll on the player, but this story is one that is a worth a try. After finishing the game, I think this is the best video game I've ever played. I may be bias, as I truly enjoy the series as a whole, but the story, the combat, the atmosphere, the characters, they all combine to make this my favorite game from Sony and possibly my favorite game in general.
105) The game is a masterpiece, the gameplay, graphics and plot are 10 out of 10. In the end, even a stingy tear breaks through ),The mechanics of the game are built so that gives great pleasure from killing enemies, both zombies and people. The game is quite long, but during this time it does not get boring, there is always some twist or TURN! It will be one of my five favorite games of all time.
106) first a all please play the game until it ends, for me a really nice game nice graphics, nice sound, nice history.
107) This masterpiece game depicts ,  hatred, love, hate, revenge and survival and teaches us the result of good and bad. The last of us part II is the best drama game in the apocalyptic narrative or maybe in all narratives.
108) Being the most anticipated game of 2020 following the major success of its predecessor, The Last of Us Part 2 had some tremendous shoes to fill. It had to muster a thought provoking emotional story that rivaled the previous game, needed graphical quality that reflected the current generation, and gameplay that built upon the already flawless crafting and gunplay that we saw before. Yes, this game has its neigh-sayers, ridiculing the writing of the story-board designers because of the murder of a beloved character, but just because your favorite character was killed, doesn't mean the game isn't good, or you can't appreciate how they were able to build on the lore of the world, create new characters that you can relate to and mourn in their passing, and excel at moving beyond this departure of the supposed glue holding the previous game together.,The LoU2 improves on it's predecessor in nearly every facet, notice I say nearly because I do want think Naughty Dog could've chopped up the story a little to make it less lengthy, but, that isn't enough for the game to receive zero's from fans on sites everywhere.,The story was amazing, playing with your emotions from the the time you pressed play to the scrawling of the credits at its conclusion. From the immense satisfaction of being back in the LoU2's world, the moments of utter dread and sadness that came at the loss of our most beloved characters, and the anger that seethed within us, as well as Ellie and Abby as they embarked on their quests for revenge. You couldn't revel for five minutes within this decaying world without feeling on edge and having the sneaking suspicion that one of your allies would bite the dust at a moments notice.,The passing of the protagonal torch from Ellie to Abby tinkers with emotions even further. You think as Ellie that you are in the right. You just trekked across the western part of the United States to seek your revenge on this mercenary party that butchered your beloved father figure, successfully perform said task, only to then change hands, see a new perspective, and realize that this world is not what it seems.,You see that the world Abby inhabited wasn't too different from Ellie's. She had friends and family that she adored, a father who was lost, and a decision fueled by revenge that she believed would "make things right". But if there is anything that this game is trying to emphasize is that revenge isn't entirely a course of action worth pursuing, and that human beings aren't as reliable as we initially think. The story blurs the line between who is truly good and evil, and emphasizes that humans are incredibly prone to mistakes and acting rashly due to fits of rage and emotionally driven agendas.,When I assumed the role of Abby I was disturbed by the fact that the characters I had killed were not mere evil-doers who deserved to get axed, but people who were a part of a loving and cohesive society just trying to live in this outbreak-stricken world. They had families, lovers, companions, just like anyone who was back in Jackson, or even Ellie herself, but due to our lack of knowledge we found ourselves rooting for someone who is clearly not on the correct side of the moral compass.,This is what I love about the LoU2. This dichotomy presented between Abby and Ellie is not drastically different as we once thought and I love that the game forces us to consider who is the faction we should showing allegiance to.,But I think there is another underlying message; that we are supposed to be combating the scourge of infected that inhabit our world rather than one another. Unify, instead of oppose one another creating bloodshed.,This point is what I think a lot of people are missing and I think its poignant that we are reintroduced to that fact at the conclusion of the game when we discover that the Fireflies are not an extinct organization like we thought. There is still a chance to beat this virus and save humanity. But I guess we'll have to wait and see for when the sequel rolls around.,Moving on from the topic of the story, the game is visually stunning and, debatably the most visually appealing game to come out this generation! The characters models are incredibly life-like, the textures and light exposure mirror reality, and dilapidated world that you are wading through is lush, green, and forgotten, adding to the magic of The Last of Us.,The combat is is crisp and fluid, every encounter with an enemy is full of grit and viscera, and you teeter between feeling like an action-movie star to a mere mortal fighting for your life. To make this combat possible you have to craft weapons, survival gear and anything else that will help you best the fungal beasts and the gun-wielding barbarians. It improves on what was in place before and then some.,To rap it up, The Last of Us Part 2 is near perfect. The story could've been tinkered to provide a swifter conclusion, but it is a worthy candidate for GOTY.
109) I was quite appalled by the polarised reaction from users. There should only be one conclusion after finishing the game. It's an epic game period.
110) Awesome story. It does not compare to the story of the first game, but achieves a compelling, emotional, and stressful sequel. Don’t let the bad reviewers blind you, it is the most compelling game I’ve played after the Witcher 3.
111) The Last Of Us Part 2 is the best game i have ever played. I recently bought and played it after finishing the first one and i couldn't put the game down because i had to know what was going to happen. 2 days later i beat the game. Took about 30 hours and i didn't regret a second playing it. The storyline was really good especially connecting back with the first game and certain events. Gameplay was really well implemented especially with stealth and crafting with more options and ways of going around the world.
112) My game of the generation for sure. Topping off the PS4 generation with one of the best games ever conceived is a great achievement by Naughty Dog, and props to them for taking risks and trying new things. Even if you don't like the story, all other aspects are stellar, with THE best graphics I've ever seen, tight and gritty gameplay, topped off by fantastic acting. I adore it in every single way and you'd be doing yourself a favor giving this game a try. The haters are whiny simpletons.
113) Mind-blowing experience, can't recommend enough, I have just finished the game and am floored by how unique and risky this game is
114) Play the game for yourself. Though not for evryone, still it's a masterpiece.
115) Everyone should play this game.  ЛУЧШАЯ ИГРА ПОКОЛЕНИЯ 12/10
116) This is fcking best game i ever played!!This game is just a masterpiece!Cant w8 for last of us 3
117) F##K ALL HATERS,THIS GAME IS A MASTERPIECE,THIS GAME IS NOT FOR KIDS WHO PLAY FORTNITE,IF YOU ARE TIRED OF GAMING BECAUSE OF YOUR AGE OR CHANGING FEELINGS, I PROMISE THIS GAME WILL MAKE YOU ENJOY IT LIKE A GROWN MAN NOT A KID
118) Don't listen who doesn't like this game. It's simply masterpiece. Graphics, mechanics, story, and the lenght of the game are satisfying. It's like a good & long movie that you can play. I had no rush so i finished yesterday. Time-to-time i felt like i'm playing Resident Evil 2, but i loved that game too so it's not bad sign at all. :D You should experience this game at least once if you're PS owner no matter what prejudiced and easily manipulated ones say.
119) This Game is a masterpiece in both visual and storytelling. It give you the meaning of life itself, As the first game, it was a brutal journey and phenomenal story about hate, love and forgiveness, and everything that is good and bad in this broken world. For what i believe if you want to make a good story as the last of us don't give the fans something they want give theme something that will change their point of view over the story and what they really deserve. Of course Joel Miller was one of the greatest character ever made in any media, and he is my favorite character of all time but sadely he didn't make it. His death was so bad and cruel and that's what make this story so special it  gives the character what they realy deserve but in the end of course it didn't succed to the same level as the first one. In the end try to understand the story and don't listen to the others who didn't play the game. BE OPEN MINDED.
120) Game of the generation. Music, gameplay, atmosphere, story everything is top-notch.
121) I haven't played the game but it is gud ikfshsdfnep;fbsfoiesbisefeseansjzfsfios
122) This is one of the best games I ever played. Go into this game with no expectations and you'll be pleased. I barely played the first last of us and immediately after I played the last of us 2. I feel like the only reason this game got so much flak was because the expectations people hyped up over 7 years. I played them back to back and thought the second part was better.
123) This game is just amazing , just finished it now and if not the best but it’s for sure one of the best games of the decade , every aspect of this game is good , the graphics ,  story , gameplay , sound system , movement, just everything is awesome and immersive, before i played it i heard a lotta people giving **** about the death of joel but when i put myself in abby’s shoes i understand why she decided to kill him , yes i love joel but for good or worse this is what the director chose for tlou2’s path and I’m totally fine with it , this game gives you every feeling in this world , happiness, sadness , fear it’s like a tv series or something, the way that your enemies give callouts to each other is a great detail , opening the safes were really cool (some of them were the same but i never got to say something like damn another safe lets skip this one) the weather man the vibes that it gives you is beautiful. The graphics.. I don’t even know how the 7 year old can run this game on 30fps with no problem it’s the best graphics I’ve seen on a console , the game is polished I haven’t seen any glitches or bugs. This game just kept me to itself and i played nothing other than lou2 in the past 3 days.,the only con that i can find is the fights , most of the times the fights can be the same and it’s a little bad but if you’re creative enough you can find different ways to defeat the enemies and not just playing stealthy , so yeah I highly recommend you to play this and the last of us part 1 game
124) Great game at any aspects and personally favourite PS4 exclusive game for me
125) Full disclaimer, I was one of those people back in Feb/March when those leaks dropped, that I vowed never to play and hate Naughty Dog, blah-blah-blah. Luckily I came to my senses very quickly and even bought a special edition from Game UK where you have a reversible sleeve for Ellie which is pretty dope.,,I played The Last of Us Part II last week and did so everyday until I completed it on 01 December 2020. Yeah, Joel died but I got over it...as Jim Sterling pointed out, Joel wasn't a good human, he had a shady past. The game deal with loss and grief in the most realistic way depicted. I like Abby Anderson as a character who fights exactly like Joel which i thought was interesting. If I met Abby in a post apocalyptic world, I wouldn't care about her past; the fact she's so badass is a plus and I happen to love buff women like Gina Carano and Bridgette Goudz (sure, they are conventionally attractive but they're Amazonian!),,And let's remember, Neil Druckmann doesn't have an anti-male agenda thing going on, he still honours Joel through really emotional flashbacks and right at the end, when Ellie is about to kill Abby. There are many great surprises throughout, from Dina/Ellie in Wyoming to Santa Barbara (my favourite section).,,If you're one of those idiots who loves Ryan Kinnel (that boy needs to eat) Geeks & Gamers (I could easily knockout Jeremy in the ring) , Heels vs Babyface (ironically throwing a childlike tantrum when Sony copy struck his channel) and TheQuartering (overweight turd in a basement) then you should avoid this review! They've gotten and continue to get subs with their far-right politics, not for me, thanks.,,I played this game, loved it and Naughty Dog took a risk, rather than copy-and-paste. It will win Game of the Year at next week's VGAs. I cannot wait to try it on Game Plus.,,Gameplay/graphics: 10/10,Story: 10/10
126) This is a masterpiece.,Let no one tell you otherwise. It is the intention of the game to make you feel deeply uncomfortable and unsettled in changing perspectives. Even it’s seemingly unending nature is by emotional design. This games dives deep and takes you on a journey that is so important in this day and age - the journey of ambiguous choices. There’s no clear good guy. No clear bad guy. Just like in real life this games acts like a mirror...and it pisses people off. But the journey, the story, the cinematic experience are the best videogames has to offer to date. If there were an Oscar for games, this one would bring home every category. It’s that good. Period.
127) It’s a shame that most people don’t understand what a colossal job has been done. Due to minor plot misses and misunderstandings, the game is drowning in an ocean of negative reviews.,I love this genre and TLOU 2 seemed to me the standard of interactive cinema. In all cut-scenes, the emotions of the characters are 100% conveyed. You watch and understand that they will not play as well in any film.,At least for the technical part, this game deserves all 10 out of 10.,,Of the minuses, I would like to highlight the fact that a couple of scenes were very drawn out. And also there were some plot holes (which personally did not bother me).,,Thank you for the game, which broke my soul in a good way and made me feel something that I have never felt.
128) The game is all about forgiveness, and realising that maybe, you're not always correct and on the right side.,It's true it isn't all about fun in this game, but it's about the immersive and sometimes terrifying journey you enter on.
129) Look the game was great just played and dont listen to another peapole ok that was grat and we need part 3
130) Game was obviously great. Story telling, mechanics, visuals, characters, it was all awesome. People who are downvoting are being just as political as the game they're saying is too political.
131) Now let me say. This game is not for everyone. It is a grim, very much less forgiving and darker game than the first. I know many hated this game or was dissapointed but personally I must say I loved it. Was it better than the first? No I don't think so. However I loved the direction they took the story. So I want to talk about the big Contraversies surrounding the game. First of Joel's death. This was done well in my opinion. Don't get me wrong. I cried and felt angry cause I love Joel. But he is not a good man. He has done messed up things. He is a good father but not a good man he is a beloved character but doesn't mean he didn't make many mistajes. The world is cruel and he was never going to get a heroic death. He knew he was going out in a bad way. Now the entire Joel would not of trusted abby I can see where everyone is comming from 100%. However living in Jackson for 4 years would've changed that and Joel would've seen Ellie in abby. A girl the same age needing help. So yes he trusted her. But Joel knows he isn't a good man. That's why he accepted it when they got him. He didn't fight. The only regret I think he had was knowing Ellie had to watch him die. Now truth be told switching to abby I was mad. I hated playing as her at first. Not cause the gameplay but my anger for abby. However when I got near the end of abbys gameplay I realised why I'm mad at abby is the same reason she was at Joel. This is why personally the perspective cycle of violance works for me. If its not your thing and you didn't enjoy this game that's fine but I personally did. I ended up not liking abby but liking her writing and not hating her. Now the decision to not kill abby I agree with cause it would've done nothing. And that's why I love Owen as he understands it'll do nothing. Earlier in the game they even foreshadow this when talking bout the comic book with Joel. I do think abby gameplay is a little too dragged out and the game gets a little repetitive at times. The pacing is weird especially with the flashback moments which are some of the best parts but It worked for me however I know some don't like it but again it worked for me. Now I wouldn't give this a 10 since I gave the first a 10  and I do stand by that being better but I'd definitely give this game a 9.7 or 9.8. I understand some won't like it due to the very dark and consequancial story telling but I personally loved what they did. .
132) Graphics 10/10 Story very sad 10/8,Game play 10/7 Everything in this game so good but not so cool
133) Probably the most beautiful piece of art I've conssumed this year. There's too much to unpack so I'll just say I'll hold this masterpieve forever in my heart. Thank you, Naughty Dog.
134) The most powerful game I've ever played. Completely teared me apart and then made me completed like I never was before.
135) If you are reading this, you should play this game. Ignorant kids hated this masterpiece so hard and rated it 1/10 because they don't understand it. They could not accept it. If you can do that it would be the most beautiful and sad game you have ever played
136) This game is perfect . Dont listen to haters and review bombers . U guys almost made me miss this great game . So shame on you . Thats what happens when parent let their under age childs play violent video games . Its like punch in a face . True.  this game has concepts of violence and lesbian sex that i cant understant it . But i wont judge it . Just enjoy what story is going to tell,Just enjoy concept  when everything is in top quality and dont let children play this game . This game is for grownups . Technically this game is going to be example for future games. But story wise i thought im not going to love it . But im suprised that how i care for everyone and still afer 3 month after finishing rhis game i think about events of the game .  Thats what perfecr games do to you
137) Don't be fooled by the numbers, this is not a 10/10 game, I'd say 7,5/10 at best.,Excelled where it was expected to, graphically and in animatioms, voice acting was superb, set design was beautiful and immersive and really confusing at times which I enjoyed. The combat is solid and actually requires some practice. Overall very good, though I did not find any bugs in the game, the cutscenes were a whole other stort, with some weird model instability.,Now for the real problem with the game, it's story, it is indeed filled with a political agenda, I'm not just saying it, I am a bissexual man. But including a gay couple and a trans man in a world with so few characters does feel forced and takes you out of the game. That being said none of the storylines are offensive or terribly written, it's just an obvious sympathy bait and it's distracting at best.,The big death on the beggining was sad, hut it made sense so I don't get the rage some people felt towards the game for it. It made sense storywise...,People complaining about the models are just scary or dumb, because saying Ellie looked way better before is... Weird on the context that she was fourteen... And I guess people don't get the concept of aging. She looked perfectly fine to me. And saying Abby"looked like a man, ew". It's a vudeogame character on a zombie apocalypse, not a Pornhub actress. Chill. She looks credible and the game itself calls her out on being built like a tank so... I don't get the surprise.,The third act is by far the weakest, we've gotten two already established factions, did we need a third one to be around for half an hour? And did the third one have to be the most boring of them all? Overall the story feels like it drags quite a bit while the third act is just sailed through by contrast which feels weird.,Funny enough the best social interactions in the game still belong to Ellie and Joel, Dina and Ellie have their moments tho, and the WLF crew really wasn't that bad either, other than the fact that playing Abby takes like 45% of the game, which was a really hard to take change, till I actually familiarized myself with Abby I just wanted to get back to Ellie, and when through their first fight you play as Abby, I honestly just let Ellie kill her time and time again because I really did not want to take the chance of Abby killing Ellie.,Overall a very solid but weird sequel, could've played a big chunk of it without knowing it as TLoU ehich doesn't really feel like a Part II, but maybe a spin-off.
138) A masterpiece, all putting a bad reviews didn't play the game and even doen't have a ps4.,Go play Halo kids. This game is not for you
139) I get why some people don't like the game, it's not a feel good game but that's the great part of the game. Nowadays, you always get feel good games, but this one gets you soooo emotionally invested if you just play the game without and prejudice. The story is sooo good! The gameplay is solid. Graphics are great. Soundtrack is good. There is really not much to criticize. Buuuut you need to be aware whether it's a game for you or not. It's your own fault (not the games one) if you buy a setting of a game you don't like. If you love Jazz and you buy a Metal album, you cannot criticize the artist that you didn't like the music!
140) incredible story, visuals, and gameplay. A bit too long but it never felt repetitive. I really enjoyed what the designers and storytellers did with this game and how it made me feel. I think most people who reviewed this poorly didn't play the game or have a very narrow view of humanity and philosophy. Or maybe they are just impatient and don't want to really sit with the impact of violence and a brutal world.,It seems obvious the user reviews were spammed by chuds when you see how similar they all are.
141) The Last of Us series operates wholly in grey. There is almost purely good or evil characters or actions. The original game not only made you do terrible things, it gave you motive to want to do terrible things. Part 2 forces you to confront the horror of what the characters committed in the original. An extremely effective exercise in empathy, the story is remarkable. The gameplay is fantastic and terrifying and exhilarating. The only downside to me is also a plus, the game is a bit long.
142) This game is absolutely brilliant. Beautiful graphics, incredible gameplay, perfect soundtrack and acting and an excellent story. The writing in this game is incredible, it is sad to see so many people who misunderstood it. It's a layered narrative with multiple powerful themes and messages. It is a must play. Do not listen to the loud minority, trust me.
143) One of the best looking game out there. Probably will hold up for a long time. Gameplay from the original mastered and with just enough innovation to be perfect. Must play for every ps4/ps5 owner.
144) Just finished the game and loved it. I don’t get why it is so hated by so many people. The story was so dark and different than anything else I’ve ever seen and I am super impressed. I hope this never ends. Please make a new one - pretty please!
145) It’s obvious from so many zeros that many never touched the game, as far as I’m concerned any score under an 8 to me is a troll, this game is a master class in storytelling, I’m still thinking about this game even 6 months after release, it’s a bonafide masterpiece 10/10
146) I finally played the game after some time has passed since the backlash. And I.. I just... Jesus Christ. I can't believe how good this is. This game... I've never felt so sad, so emotionally drained by a game, or almost any piece of media. I don't know what to say. Just that you should experience this in your own way. Try to stay away from any preconceptions and go through this.
147) The Best Movie!!! I've ever Played !!!,Roller coaster of emotions , Beyond love and vengeance
148) Absolute Masterpiece. But don't take my (or anyone else's) word for it, you owe it to yourself to play this and form your own opinion.
149) No words to say...everything this game does incredibly well. The graphics are absolutely great, the story is great. I haven't played something so great for a long time like this , everything is so perfectly played. I'm so glad I could play this game. Don't believe the angry people who hate this episode for stupid reasons you will love this game from the beginning to end...
150) All I can say another masterpiece from Naughty Dog!!!,11/10 !!!,Haters f*ck off !!!
151) Best game ever made! It is a storm of fellings! It is the best game I played in my life ;)
152) Even with the death of the first main character. This is merely a example of association bias. and is not a bad story in fact, it's a great story.
153) very great game! fckn luv it, call me crazy but this whole plot in the history it’s just one of the many things games were loosing through years, and it’s a narrative that is just sooo well constructed... yeez.
154) A masterpiece. There is absolutely no reason to love the first game as people do and hate this one. It is a brutal emotional journey that is worth the time playing
155) Last of Us part 2 its not a child game.,This is a game mostly human, we can feel anger, fear, anguish until the end of the game. The history is amazing, full of emotion, and is showing the mistakes of a human being;,The last scene is heartbreaking! 10/10
156) This is just the game of the year! Amazing storyline, stunning graphics and sick gameplay. Just played it twice on the highest game difficulty.
157) Ignore the bigotry and idiot comments .,TLOU2 is an absolute masterpiece, it continues perfectly from the first game and drags you through an intense , yet interesting story line. I don’t want to give much away on the off chance you haven’t played it but the range of emotions are wide and varied and you come to understand at least, if not like a little someone who was once completely hated. The story telling is outstanding and believable.,Bring in part 3!
158) The best game of 2020 .    ..........................................
159) Suck my cock, haters! I cried in the end of this game. Its brilliant    :)
160) The Last of us part 2 is superior to the original game in every possible way. I played part I and I really enjoyed it, but in comparison to part II, it just feels "inferior". I have now finally platinumed Part II and I sincerely hope that a part III will come ot life. Naughty Dog did make a masterpiece of a game
161) A true masterpiece in all aspects. Not for the faint of heart of those looking for moral simplicity. The story has depth normally reserved for serious films. All rendered in absolutely breathtaking graphics that make you forget it's s game all. A MUST BUY for sure.
162) One of the best games ever, don't trust the haters, it's incredible, seriously.
163) Masterpiece is an understatement for this game. In the end, this game is about how there are no good guys and bad guys. It's all about your perspective and which characters you know. Everyone is just trying to survive.
164) Great game. Emotional unbelievable deep. Had to think about it several days after finishing it. Unique for a game.
165) I'm here writing down these short phrase after months of hate about this game.,From the beggining, you can't give it less then a eight: the made of this game is absolutly madness, the details are mind blowing.,I personally broke this game a lot of time, but it's me searching that kind of "fun".,I had the fortune to play this game without knowing nothing, nothin about rewiev bombing (like you that you're infuriating for my commenyt eghhhhuuuzz), haven't see any trailer; this summer when i had a break during my last job, i was wandering on amazon and i saw tlou part 2, my reaction it has been like OH **** TLOU PART 2?!!!!!,i bought it for 50 euros and waited three days.,After this days and a lot of km on bike asking my friends for a ps4, i went home and with and i started playing.,After few hours, Joel died, I always been a fun of this game, that hurted me a lot, i think i've droppped some tears.,As me, Ellie start with Dina and than Jesse her revenge trip...but what about her thoughts, her psichology, her focking diary??,the motion capture has made miracles in this game, **** every one here have ever tried to undertand humns feelings? because these are not characters, they were written to be humans...come on people, you have friends and a relationship with someone...or you're life stop in front of a monitor beacuase if it is, get outside and get a social life.,Every single action in the game mean something for them, EVERY LAST ONE OF THEM (cit eheh),Abby....ohohoh this is fat meat...in the first run I complitly hated Abby, when she died i laughed a lot but during her days, i started to apriciate her; in this game, Abby and Lev are Joel and Ellie, their relationship is the one we missed after Joel's death.,It's meanfuling if think about this,,,or you can't?,No because the 90/95% of the critics about this game is totally ****ed up, groupe of miserables...my mother language isn't english and i don't have the right skils to kill every senseless critics, i would like but i can't.,The final...after all, Ellie is completly broken (if you have red the diary, followed the cut scenes and undertood her feelings you know that) and  leave her dream farm with to search herself (if i ever were to lose you, i'd surely lose myself...), she thinks the best way is to kill Abby and she doesn't have killed Abby because if she did, then she surely kill herself.,I don't have to explain this, thats it,I'm here not to write a rewiev, i'm here because i'm very angry with you people, because you ruined the sharing of this game, you totally misundertood th whole game, the gossip ABOUT Abby and Lev it's WOW and then destroyed the experience of houndreds of thousands of people because of your little brain.,Someone will punish you some day, i hope for that.,i'm waiting for your comments kids, but i would like to have a sane discussion with a human if there's one who don't apriciate this game with resonable arguments, and not you're HA, she is lesbian, he die, she's not female...,Oh, Abby>>>Ellie
166) Different story, İncredible Graphics, Very Good Atmosphere. Very nice game, Very Good Experience.Thank you Naugthy Dog.We Are Waiting For The Last Of Us Part III.
167) Great music, pacing, story, everything.  I'm not going to mention any specifics but if you enjoyed the first one then I am pretty confident that you will like this one as well.
168) the best story of all games ever I think to the final every time. Is top ya
169) Production, emotions, music, gameplay - everything is on top. This game gives a set of emotions that no other game has caused
170) When everything in our culture has glorified hatred and violence. The last of us part II, was a painful but much needed honest step back from the noise. I can see that it is not a game that most people would like. Because it is designed to make you feel guilt for your actions, to make you think twice about the lives that you are taking. To show that there are no heros, there are no villains, there are just people trying to make sense of life. Naughty Dog is extremely bold for taking a path to create a completely unique experience, that doesn't try to cater to the majority and grab cash, but tell the story they wanted to. To make something that actually has meaning. Its disappointing that in the gaming industry will be dictated by what the majority wants, but I am thankful for this masterpiece.
171) A game with lasting effect.,Every bit about this game is superb. And the narrative gives you a lasting effect, and make you mind think about it for while, unlike shiny trendy stuff of these days, it doesn't fear being sad and harsh.
172) Absolutely epic, but the combat system is annoying at the end. One of the best experiences someone can have on gamming, finished In 30hours.
173) One, if not the best game of 2020. I came into it blind, without having anything spoiled, and I have to say I am glad I did. This is hands down one of the most fun games I have ever played. I rarely buy games on launch. But, surprisingly, I paid the 70$ for this game and have enjoyed every single moment of the 30 hours that I got out of it and have consumed much more regarding the game. Joel's death is justified, in the sense that he really did just **** all over humanity in order to save Ellie, and most important of all, Ellie's rampage and suicide mission across America, but without Joel is justified when considering she's got the same **** virus in her head than any of the other infected, but her immune system has somehow overcome this and turned out as we saw in the movie. Come on guys. Her father figure was **** murdered in front of her while she was trying to rebuild their destroyed relationship. What else can you ask for?
174) In my opinion TLOU PART ll the best game in my life)best game decades, maybe even a century!!
175) Something I want to say is that If you loved this game, that's ok. If you hated this game, that's ok.,,If you felt like every event that happened was very in character, that's cool.,,If you think that there needed to be more or clearer reasons for the events in the game to have happened, or the actions were simply out of character completely, that's understandable.,,I just want to say that we are all different, from our upbringings, morality and virtues. This game pushes that to the limit.,,Let's use Dunkey and Yahtzee as an example. They are both very honest in their reviews, and might like or dislike games most people may think are the opposite, but they seldom let public opinion scare them off from being honest about what they like or dislike.,,Yahtzee hated TLOU2. Dunkey loved it. Why are these two seemingly honest people saying two different things? It's simple, really: They are two different people.,,They fundamentally uphold different standards when it comes to rating and enjoying games.,,Yahtzee thought it was a horrible time, with uninteresting characters and a prime example of developer crunch.,,Dunkey thought it was a good story, with most of the actions the characters take being in-character, and the ending was the best course of action the devs could have taken.,,So who's wrong? Neither. They're both different people, and like different things. and when we compare that to the rest of TLOU fans, we start to have a revelation: What works for some people won't work for others.,,I just love it
176) One of the best games (accessible also) I’ve ever played. It was so good I didn’t want to play any other game for a month.,,It is for those who want to play a good stealth, survivor game with really deep story.,,Pros:,Excellent graphics, sound and music, voice acting, narrative, game play.,Cons:,none,,The biggest surprise was the accessibility options. I was planning to buy it with a price drop but half a month before the launch I heart that there accessibility options.  I am visually impaired individual so I wanted to experience a game in a more accessible way. So I’ve pre-ordered the Special Edition so as to show the developers how important is that for me.,I begun playing the game on 19 of June and I’ve stopped playing on 15 of August. I used the TTS options, the one that makes a sound for enemies and items if you enable it and the high-contrast mode (enemies red – allies blue).,,Outcome:,It is the 2nd game in witch I have a platinum trophy, and I’ve played a lot of games.,It was the first time I was playing with my back in the chair. Usually I play with my face 3 inches away from the screen.,I could read for the first time all the documents (thanks to TTS).,I have died less times than in other games but every time I was losing I was feeling safe.,,Many thanks to the developers I wish more games were so accessible.,,Finally, a lot of people criticize the game of hidden agendas and other things. I have to say that this is simply a game. If someone wants to disagree with the creators he/she can do that through out civilized ways.
177) Don’t listen to the haters this game is a masterpiece
178) I looked at negative reviews about this game, many complained about the plot, but to be honest I liked it, they showed that there is not specifically good and evil (here everyone decides to milk themselves), of course it's a pity that the "dogs" killed our beloved anti-  hero (based on the first part) and gave way to a new character, like Dina and Jesse, but I'm used to this change (although it took more of the game's half).  This game gave me mongo emotions that no other game has given me, for example: When Joel is killed or when Ellie enters an empty house and tries to play “If i ever were to loose you”.  Sometimes these moments break through to tears ... In the gameplay component, I did not see so many new mechanics (breaking glass, crawling), but it feels nice enough.  As for the continuation of this wonderful series of games, I think that TLOU 2 is concluding, yes there are plot holes, such as (what happened to Abby and Lev, Where did Dina go with JJ (maybe there is a note and I overlooked it, if that  I will take this into account in the future), where Ellie went, she may wander around the mainland or went back to Jackson, but I think that for part 3 this is not enough, maximum DLC. From me this game gets 10/10, but not everyone will like it (  I did not take into account the moment with homosexuality in this game, if I am neutral about all this) and I advise fans of the series to go through this (in my opinion) MASTERPIECE! Review translated with the help of google translator (Russian-English) Successful passages to all!
179) great game naughty dog ​​experience great way i recommend everyone to play
180) One of the best games i ever played. With an an amazing story, great graphic and perfect flow.
181) Don't mind all of the negative reviews, this is a great game that can hold it's own to the original.
182) This great game is a real masterpiece with a very ambitious story and great characters
183) Well At First I Was One Of The Hater,But,I Am No Longer A Hater Though Story Is Neither Good And Neither Bad,* it's BREATHTAKING* And Breathtaking In A Different Way,First I Was Disliking The Game When I Had To Play As Abby But Then I Realised That It Ain't Bad The Game Made Enemy Become Friend With Player.,This Game Has Really Different Choice That Makes The Player Neutral To Both Characters But:,This Game Is A MASTERPIECE I Really Liked This Game Its A Different Game Different Than All The games I Have Ever Played Although I Am Sad They Killed Joel But Still The Storyline Was Awesome And Music Toooo. This Game Gave A Good Moral And A Good Lesson That In Revenge We Can Lose Everything We Have To Trade Everything For Our Revenge And MAybe You Won't Get The Revenge As Ellie Realised That Abby Was Doing Nothing Wrong She Was Just Taking Revenge Of Her Father At That Time She Also Realised That She (Ellie) Is Also Taking The Revenge Of Her Father (Joel)  And It Was A *BREATHTAKING* Moment. Well, She Loses Everything Even Her Ability To Play Guitar, She Used To Remember Joel By Playing A Song And Now In His Memory She Cannot Even Play it Well That Was A Dark Moment But It Gave A Good Story And Moral And A Really Deep Meaning And I Don't Know What To Say Except Breathtaking In A Different That Was Neither Good Nor Bad But Just Breathtaking.,,I Love This Game Therefore Give It A Straight 10/10
184) It’s true craftmanship to push the limits for the PS4 this far. At times it feels next-gen even though it runs in 30fps the animation is smooth, the combat is raw, the sfx  is brutal, the voice acting sets a new standard, the storytelling is great (even though it I prefer the more straight forward tone in the first game I appreciate all the attempts to craft a modern approach.
185) near perfection of a game naughty dog worked hard and this shows from graphics to story
186) The Last Of Us part 2 is the best game experience i had so far from Ps2 until today. The cinematic approach of the game and the creative style of  gameplay makes it very organic and natural. The animation of every character is very rich and makes it feel very personal.,This game is a landmark for video games storytelling.
187) This is a great game good graphics good gameplay good story I think Joel was gonna to die no matter what like he was getting old and couldn’t even fight back to Abby she was strong and he was weak the reason why Ellie let go of Abby was because of Joel. Joel told Ellie to try to move on on her life and she did. The reason why you play Abby more than Ellie was because you need to learn more about Abby I know the ending sucks for people who wanted Abby dead but if you understand the story more then you see why she did that to Joel and why
188) One of the best video games ever i see, i love this game and this heroes, first game was incredible and the next game it's not exception !
189) It’s the best game I’ve ever played!,It’s phenomenal! It’s a masterpiece!
190) Good enough, cruel but truth... A Game who its completely real, thats why we LOVE it
191) Everything about this game is amazing, the characters, the story, the soundtrack and the ending. The ending cant get out of my head, everyday i just think about it, how sad but yet how beautiful it was
192) My favorite game. Game of the universe. **** Superliminal. Black Lives Matter
193) I am absolutely delighted! It's just a masterpiece. I perfectly understand why this game has either 0 or 10. It has been a long time since I had such a wow effect. For me, the second part is several times better than the first. Developers, you are simply the best. And please do not listen to the sugary girls who give you 0. Keep up the good work.
194) Masterpiece. Amazing story, gameplay, game and level design. My favorite game for Playstation
195) It's a really fun game, with extreme good graphics but with a controversial history
196) This game in my opinion is brilliant and at the same time awesome.The plot runs right to the bone, graphon incredible " survived the maximum of the old playstation 4 and it's cool.In General, the game I personally really went and one more thing, I do not advise you to pass it without passing the first part, it will kill all the sympathy for the characters and most of the interest.That's all I wanted to say:play, the game is worthy of 10/10
197) It’s the best game I’ve ever played, has an amazing story that doesn’t go as many people wanted and it also gave us the feeling of what happened after.
198) This is amazing it has a beatiful storytelling and an amazing gameplay i love it
199) This game is the best game in 2020 so far i love it. The first part was better but that doesn't mean this one is not good.
200) Amazing Story, Gameplay, and the only thing it's missing is Factions Multiplayer.
201) Good game I dont care what haters say. After all they know nothing about writing and character development.
202) Do not listen to those populists who call the game bad. I really liked the game, but still the first part was more revolutionary, and now, what was shown in the game was already there, but this does not make the game bad. The game has a gorgeous action, sound and musical accompaniment.  The story could really be better, who are we to teach Druckmann how to script?  Many people complain about the "agenda." Yes, it is there, but nikah does not affect the narration and the disclosure of the plot. The gameplay in the first half of the game seemed to me more interesting than in the first part of the series, but the gameplay in the second part was very tired, but it had to  do to dilute the plot so that it does not seem monotonous. Before passing, you must definitely go through the first part. I highly recommend the game for purchase
203) This game made me get a Metacritic account. I don't understand the hate and I don't understand how anyone could evaluate the game a few minutes after the release. I personally played the game and it was an incredible experience. Excellent graphics with an excellent story and wonderful gameplay. A lot of people probably judge this game because of leaks, but I personally recommend trying the game and maybe change your mind. I think Naughty Dog can be proud of their work.
204) The story is about two characters seeking for revenge and facing the consequences of their actions, but it's packaged with incredible side characters and stories. The combat is a lot metal gear solid style, just more fast and brutal.(i wish konami made a metal gear solid with a combat this fun) Graphics are really top tier and overall the effort putted into making the game feal realistic is really appreciated. This game is a true masterpiece of the PS4 generation.
205) I’m out of words! But thats not the first time when it comes to Naughty Dog Produksjons.,There are very few story’s that stick the way this story does. Sins I finished the game I don’t think there has been one day gone by without me thinking about it. Thats how powerful the production made impact through this storytelling. Sure... some of the outcomes of the story did not make the turn I wanted it to take, but that would simply been boring and predictable... this story is not and I love it. I don’t think I ever seen a game made so much impact on people in general based on comments online. And that says a lot. Naughty dog manages to get everyone emotionally involved. I can’t think of anyone else who manage to do that. I play a lot of games... a lot.... There are not many storylines I can actually remember in detail after a short time. Last of us sticks with me for a lifetime. This game is so well made I sometimes got lost in the beautiful surroundings and fine details... simply stunning. Gameplay is flawless. It gives the player a verity of options on how to play using stealth or go guns blasting. I didn’t even find a bug or glitch in the game. What can I say.,It doesn’t get any better than this! Thumbs up
206) It’s not a ten but. This is the only game I can remember that people are being unfair and complex. Most of the people who make videos rating the game on YouTube have videos of 30 minutes or more talking about the game, it’s not a film it’s only a game so there’s no need to go all complex and act like cinematographers when most of you have rated this game with a 5,6 or 7. The fact that the user score it’s 5.2 it’s a crime against video games. Just enjoy the bloody game it’s actually really good.
207) They improved in every way. Sorry if powerful and absolutely brutal. Loved it.
208) Hands down one of the best games I have not played through but lived through. Best narrative, best playthrough and best characters. Can't wait for Part 3!
209) Personally, I hold The Last of Us parts 1&2 near and dear to me. I believe it's a ground breaking game that shook my to my core story wise. The graphics are phenomenal, they're dark and dirty, not letting you shy away from the spiteful acts your committing. The game play was absolutely amazing in every sense.  Such a complex and emotion churning game, I wish I could experience it all over again.,,The characters were so well developed, humanised and dehumanised in a manner that even the simplest minded bigot could understand. They don't paint anyone to be the hero and show the good and the bad in everyone. There's no good guys and bad guys in this game as seeing all parts of the story shows one that no one is really a hero, no one is really a villain, it's all up to perception. People do good things and bad things and Naughty Dog's "The Last of Us Part II" depicts it perfectly.,,Not to mention the consistent representation of LGBTQ+ throughout parts one and two. It's nice to feel seen and represented in such a manner.,,Overall, one of my favourite games of all time and worth every second of my time.
210) The best Of the best. Great sequel to the first part. Looking forward to play next part or DLC.
211) The game is very good and what these people say putting 0/10, who did not even pass the game is nonsense! Management is no worse than in part 1-10/10, the soundtrack is always excellent-10/10, the plot slightly limps but only very occasionally-9,5 / 10,==================,Game rating-9.8 / 10
212) Masterpiece!!! No doubt!!!,Never have games can give you such a big impact of emotions and shock like this before.,Even movie can't do that.,We're so lucky to live in this time to experience something like this.,Thanks for all the efforts producers put in this game:)
213) The last of us 2 is fine for me, tho it did had moments that i cant tolerate overall its a great game
214) This game is a masterpiece. The game is a sequel to my favorite game of all time in regards of story telling and this one was almost as good with incredible story telling and a very good storypacing which makes you understand both of the main characters and takes you on a journey. The graphics are the best I have ever seen, the game looks incredible. Gameplay is so much fun, I recommmend playing on the survival diffuculty because the stealth in this game and the way it tackles enemy encounters is an immense amount of fun. It expresses so much for the runtime and is one of my favorite games of all time. Its sad that it got reviewbombed by a bunch of babys who havent even played the game and are just angry about the leaks. I had a blast playing tlou2.
215) I just had to play this after firts game and at my first playthrough I was a little bit disapponted from story. Then I played it for second time to get all achievments and enjoy whole story again. After that I can appreciate what ND made. Whole concept is perfected and story is well served. This story is sad and will make you think about everything that happened thorough both games.,Abby is still character that I dont like. Most frustrating was fighting as Abby against Ellie.
216) First, I have to say, I absolutely love this game. From the phenomenal graphics, for me its the best looking Game on PS4 next to Red Dead Redemption 2, with an absolute incredible sound design and incredible shocking details in the environment, to the frightening but brilliant atmosphere and  the brilliant told story, I love every single aspect of this game. I can understand that many players werent really satisfied by some decisions Naughty Dog did with  some characters, but to tell the Story so intensive and the message behind it, it was necessary and from my point of view it worked out perfectly. When I watched the Credits i also thought 'Wow, thats hard'. But when I look back at the game I never played a game before that goes so wild with your Feelings. And thats meant positive. This game wont make you happy. But it dont wants to. Ive you want to play a light, fun entertaining Game then play the Uncharted series, also absolute great games. This game is nothing for weak minds. The game tells a story of revenge in a way I never saw before in another game. So I absolutely recommend it. Ive you look at the game apart from the first game, its absolutetly incredible. Dont listen to the frustrated fans. But this is my opinion. I accept it, when someone criticizes the game at hand of examples. But just to say 'the story is boring and the characters are bad!! ' without any reason doesn't counts and is just stupid. The only really small thing i would critize is that the game at some points is a little bit to long and could have been shorter at some points. But in comparison to the positive aspects this nearly doesnt matters.
217) Sequel to one of the greatest game in history, the last of us 2 is a very emotional story, the way it makes you empatize with the "bad" one, the way the "good" one is slowly becoming the villain. The way this game tells the story, it erases the line between good or bad, it makes you think, it makes cry. I think its a reflection on what a divided society needs, break the bubble that you live, empatize with the guy you don't agree, see they are humans as well. I needed this game. I loved it, even though sometimes I was sad about how it played. Best experience ever
218) The game has the greates story ewer and when i talk abaut gameplay that is just purly amazing to and that physichs are next level
219) The best game of this year. I love in this game. Its good story and I want to play on 3rd part of this game
220) I think this is an absolute masterpiece of a game. Did every part of the story make me happy? No. But that isn't always the point. Give it a shot, you may love it.
221) Very convincing story telling, combat and stealth  mechanism is perfect.,Highly emotional attached with all main characters.,This game is for adult with an empathy heart only.,Kids go back to play COD.
222) This game is **** amazing. One of the best looking games I've ever played. The combat feels great, as does exploring all the amazing scenarios in the game. The story will make you feel all sorts of emotions with its incredible writing and characters. Definitely one of the best games of this generation.
223) A tale about revenge and hate.,The story is not as good as the first one, but that doesn't mean it is a bad one. The gameplay is great, combat is flawless. I didn't found difficult, so it is good for those who does not like to be frustrated, but enjoy a little challenge. The graphic is beautiful, but some times - mainly at the start of the levels - the textures don't load very well and you have to wait a second to become polish.,The ending can be unsatisfying for some, but every character has a journey, some don't achieve theirs goals, others do and others die, which I think was pretty realistic.,,I recommend this game for those who like The Last of Us 1, but I would wait for a sale because it is expansive.
224) Because it is game of the year I like the story I like the gameplay I like the characters
225) This game is amazing. A mature, deep story with complex and developing characters and a very fun gameplay to glue it all together.,A great sequel to the great original game.
226) Best Sequel Ever!,,I don't understand why many people write about a bad story and that it ruined the game ... The story here is just wonderful! I have the impression that all these negative reviews are some kind of flash mob :(,,Naughty Dog just took the first part and improved it in all direction, with perfectly saved atmosphere of the previous game! Great storyline, great design and gameplay! I finished game by myself, then finished with my wife second time and we both got very cool emotions! Don't listen to haters, it's better to play TLOU 2 yourself once, than to read a thousand subjective comments
227) This game was hard to digest and that's what made it so good. This experience will stick with me for a long time.,,tl;dr Graphics, Sound, Design are great. Stealth gameplay is amazing, almost groundbreaking. Most controversial is the story, which was the best part for me and I'll explain.,,For reference: Long time gamer. My last two favorites were Witcher 3 and Sekiro.,,The graphics are masterful. The world is designed in such great detail that you really feel like you are walking through the ruins of the real world. The same goes for animations. Remember when there was a trailer for the Division and everybody lost their minds about a car door being closed when you dodge past it? This game is full of this stuff. Character animations are crazy. It goes so far that I'm still trying to get used to the new game I'm playing, because it actually looks quite ugly in comparison, even though it came out later. All this and the game still performs flawlessly. Really, hands-down technically the greatest game that will ever run on PS4.,,Graphics/Animation/Design 10/10,,Sound design is also very well done. Beautiful well-fitting music, voices and ambient sound. You get used to it very fast. It's perfect.,Sound 10/10,,Game design. In explorer mode, you run around the beautifully crafted world and find small stories, resources and upgrades. Compared to other games the pace is quite slow but never tedious. Similar to Red Dead Redemption 2. It's very atmospheric and there are moments where you just take it all in or sneak around apartments checking every corner. The puzzles are ok.,The "stealth" sections are really "get through this in any way you want" sections. I recommend trying to no-kill sneak as much as possible. This game has one of the best stealth gameplay. One awesome aspect is that the "you are being seen" cue is audio-only. You don't know where you are being seen from. It is intense. You sneak closely past some enemies and you hear the cue. You go faster, you hear them shouting and you break into a sprint dodging bullets. It's awesome. It is dirty stealth. Sometimes you have to distract a bunch of guys with a makeshift grenade, headshot a guard with your bow and run. You hear the shouts behind you "Damn, someone killed, Debbie. They are here spread out.", but you are already gone. You can also choose a more violent approach. In that case, you have plenty of options to prepare ambushes. Make sure to watch your angles. Enemies are pretty smart and catch you from behind easily. It is a ton of fun.,Boss fights are pretty straight forward. Here's a big guy, shoot/hit him dead. I've seen more original fights.,Cutscenes with quick-time events are unnecessary. Most annoying are the "illusion of choice" parts where you have to press a kill button to progress. I guess that is supposed to make you feel like you pulled the trigger. Doesn't work for me. These are small complaints, and there's only a few occasions where you fight bosses or do quick-time events.,Gameplay 9/10,,Story *spoilers*,First off it is not an epic hero story. The characters join in a brutal circle of revenge and killing that pushes them to the absolute brink and leaves them hollow, having lost literally everything over revenge. It left me hollow as well. The ending is soul-crushing.,A lot of people complain about Joel's death and that you play his killer. This was new to me too. I thought that they wanted to make me sympathize with Abby and didn't buy it at all. In the end, I found that they just show you how two people break apart in the post-apocalypse. They boiled down the concept of revenge to its pure essence. They could turn around and just return to their lives, but they continue, consumed by revenge and it breaks them. Ellie loses everything, even the ability to play the guitar Joel gave her. That last picture of her walking away still gives me chills. I hope there is some sort of redemption for her.,The fight between Abby and Ellie is something new too. I was never so satisfied to lose. I didn't even try sometimes. I'm like "Well done kiddo, you go and kill that ****". I finished only with hopes that there's some way for Ellie out of it. Also, the way people just die in a millisecond in front of you without any glamour is pretty cool and post-apocalypse.,,I get why some people can't take it. However, some of the other reviews are downright atrocious 0 points because Abby is a muscle girl, because there's some side story that involves a trans kid or because Ellie is lesbian.,Sorry, that's just not acceptable. In my opinion, it is also pretty weak to critique a story because you didn't get your way. Kind of like giving Game of Thrones 0 points for the red wedding and not for the last season,,The story was consistent, well developed and touched me emotionally. That's what I like to feel. Unexpected, new, intense, exhausting 10/10,,Overall, yes I feel this is a masterpiece 10/10 loved it. Thank you very much Naughty Dog
228) After recently replaying the first game and soon after replaying this game I can say without a doubt this is the better one of the two, don’t get me wrong I love the first, but the game play on the second game is better, it’s visuals are more stunning (and brutal at times) and most importantly because they decided to take some risks with the story (which evidently has rubbed people the wrong way) although imperfect at times, it packs more of a punch, I was genuinely moved multiple times and that’s a big achievement for a video game....I really hope there will be a 3rd part because I’m completely captivated by the story and this world that naughty dog have created.
229) One of the best games I have played. It feels like playing through a novel, which means you have less autonomy over the characters’ actions. You get to experience the characters as they are written, which is as flawed human beings. This makes it a more passive player experience, which I liked! It was different. I have never been forced to play as a character that I absolutely despised. It was a new feeling and I thought it was brilliant. By the end of Abby’s storyline I didn’t hate her anymore. I didn’t love her either, but I was able to see her more as a whole human being. What an achievement. I felt like the game was sort of a commentary on the political climate in America where we live in extremes politically. We “other” differing point of views to the extent that we no longer see them as fully human. This game forces you to see Abby and others as whole human beings. Art imitates life here, and that’s a harsh reality to face. No person is 100% good or bad. We are all a mix of good and bad and we all do dumb stuff/ make bad choices sometimes. It’s a game that teaches empathy and does require some emotional intelligence/ maturity. If you don’t understand the ending then I feel like maybe you’re not mature enough to play the game.
230) Great Game!!--------------------------------------------------------------------------
231) my best experience since God of War. this was the first time ever I cried because of a game
232) Such an emotional story, made me feel things no other medium has made me feel before. Everything about this game is perfect, pick it up if you have the money.
233) Not the story that i wanted after waiting 7 a years,,But the story that made me feel what any media couldn't.,The Last Of Us 1 is the best game ever.
234) the best story I've ever seen, it makes you hooked on the characters.,brave and mature game
235) Amazing Game, piece after piece this is masterpiece. This game should be Game of the year. Incredible ending with interesting gameplay. This story is different then TLOU1 story, but it isn't dissapointment story, playble characters, crafting, infected and action stealth gameplay working nice. PlayStation has one of the best storytelling games ever.
236) Ive just finished the game.. This game is so fcking good i really dont understand all the hate.. I understand that you may not like story, but the music, the gameplay, the atmosphere is brilliant. You cant rate it 0, 1, 2 just for the fact that you didnt like some aspects of the story. You have to count on everything (story, music, gameplay etc.) I loved every single aspect of the game! Peace
237) A masterpiece! Of course the story is not what the most of us did expect, but still... its a masterpiece made with much love. Thanks Naughty Dog!
238) Nice game and graphic,Story is very very good i love joel and ellie,Thanks Neil Druckmann
239) best game ever psychologicaly perfect it brings anger of player by  joels death. but you use it to go further .its like fuel for your character to go on thank u naughty dog for this perfect game and i think it really deserved all the awards it has won
240) Just.... Wow!,I feel so weird right now, after ended the game. So emotional and mature story line.
241) The greatest game to grace the PS4. Period.,,Most visually striking game outside PC. Combat is better than original, adding dodge, jump, and prone. Dialogue, music, and story all build on and improve on TLOU.,,Don't let all the butthurt snowflakes deter you. It's a masterpiece plain and simple. If only it were the other way around and Ellie died and Joel got revenge for her, then all these self-loathing women-hating basement-dwellers would be prematurely cumming on their waifus.
242) What to say?,First of all, this game is a true technical masterpiece. There is a quality present both in the graphics, the work of the lights, the management of the animations of the characters (more precisely the quality of the way they touch the elements of the decor or the other characters), their breathing accelerates or decreases depending on the stress situations they are in or the emotions they are experiencing, etc. All this technical quality does is reinforce and serve the main point of the game, its scenario.,,In terms of the scenario, I’ve seen a lot of criticism of the scenario. Some of them can be quite understandable, because the scenario is writen in such a way that it will cause strong reactions in positive or negative. The story of this game is told without concessions. It is made so that players feel angry against certain characters, or feel bad about the actions of the characters they play. It is a choice of narration and I personally felt bad during my playthrough. But these sensations that the game managed to make me felt, is for me the proof that Naughty Dog managed to create a personal work with heavy meaning. More than a simple reflection on revenge, for me the game is the way to reflect on the regrets and the feelings that you could have face to a death. Players can choose to just don’t like the game because they don’t accept the death of one character, or don’t like a character because of its actions. In these cases, players are emotionnaly touched by death and the feelings caused by it exactly like the playable characters but don’t accept to see this fact.,,Finally, if you want to get into this game, be aware that you have to be ready to feel sad and angry as the game progresses. Some of you may not be able to finish it because you will not tolerate your negative emotions in the face of such negative situations or such characters. But also know that stop playing to this game will not allow you to have a global vision and a reflection on these situations and characters that you have trouble supporting.
243) The ending was a little weird but the gameplay was so good I really enjoyed the game when it released
244) Simply put, until now the best game of this generation.,,Superb graphics and music/sound/voice design, gripping and challenging gameplay together with a fascinating revenge story, a dense atmopshere and perfectly designed locations and oh this attention to detail in all aspects make tlou2 a rare treasure.,,Thanks Naughty Dog! With all this games as a service around I'm very grateful that I'm still able to play a game like this every once in a while.
245) Unbelievable low user score. There is absolutely nothing wrong with the game. Why would it be strange for Ellie to have changed her personality during a virus outbreak apocalypse? If anything, Ellie's hate is the most important and relevant factor in the game. Besides this, the way naughty dog let you play both sides of the story makes so much sense! If you enjoyed the original game, don't worry about part II, you will enjoy it even more!
246) "Prepare for anger, fear, pain and disappointment. As clichéd as it may sound, Naughty Dog has reached a new, seemingly unreachable level of narrative design. The Last of Us Part II will hurt you in ways that no game has ever done before. This is a story you must experience. [08/2020, p.36]"
247) Definitely not the the game that i`d expected, but i still love it. Favorite game of 2020
248) Must play. If you are a little biit open of mine and like to refelx about the character and understand other points of view iin a very mature game. I don't know I guess you would like it a lot.
249) Finally played this and finished it. The is considerably better than the first one. No idea why it got hate, it’s one of the best games on the PS4 (maybe the best). Possibly people don’t like non-cookie cutter stories but this felt more real than anything the first one ever did. In the end you’re supposed to be left seeing that there’s always another side to the story and people/things aren’t just black and white, or good and evil. And sometimes things don’t just get wrapped up in a little bow for you. Especially in a world as grim as the one in the game. The game played this all out beautifully. Beyond that, the gameplay, mechanics, etc were also a lot better and more enjoyable. 10/10.
250) The game has an amazing story that will be remembered, if you dont like storys that sre not the classics ones where everything is fine and the life is amazing you wont understand this game, the strory is a Masterpiece and the graphics are the best of this generation
251) A masterpiece. Provocative in its themes and sophisticated in its writing, this game boasts a powerful narrative and extremely polished gameplay that combine to create an unrivalled experience that is not only rewarding, but perhaps necessary in our current times. It may require a certain level of emotional maturity though.
252) Ater reading hundreds of reviews, I gather people hate on this game for the following reasons:,,1. "The characters feel different to the first game" Ellie was a child in TLOU, she is a teenager in TLOUII. Please go ahead and tell me you were as cheerful and positive as a 14 year old than as a 24 year old. Also, Ellie through part 1 is a character with a purpose (saving humanity with her inmunity). THE WHOLE POINT of this game is showing what becomes of Ellie after losing her purpose. You can SEE and FEEL the incoming change at the end of TLOU. Her purpose in this game changes to one of revenge -- a compeltely negative, violent, dark purpose fueled by hate. OF COURSE her character has changed, THAT IS THE WHOLE POINT. The same applies for what we see of Joel: motivated by helping Ellie/Humanity in TLOU, absolutely ravaged by guilt in the second part due to his actions and Ellie's reaction to it. I mean, the entire point of putting the flashbacks in is for you to see how much the ending of TLOU and the decisions thereupon taken affected the characters.,,2. "Its too dark/brutal/depressing". Again, thats the point. TLOU presented two characters on a quest to save the world who developed a beautiful relationship in the process. It was an overally "hopeful" game, except for the finale: the finale is all about the loss of hope. Yes, sure, Joel's actions are beautiful as regards him seeing Ellie as his lost daughter and wanting to save her at all costs. But its a horrifying thing he does, and we know by Ellie's face in the last shot that he has probably ruined her life. TLOU2 just takes things further from there, showing the devastation brought on by Joel's decision. It shows the horrors in this world. But if you stick your head out of your ass for a while, you'll be able to glimpse through how this game does the exact opposite from TLOU: it goes from absolute horror and devastation to a glimpse of hope. Thats the beauty of the journey. You wanted a cheesy, cheerful sequel about Joel and Ellie out for a second cure? You didnt understand the first game at all.,,3. The SJW agenda. Its there, but its neither exaggerated neither is it "meaningless". There's a point to it in the story. If you are seriously hurt by having a character be LGTBQ to the point of it spoiling your gaming experience, please visit a psychologist.,,4. The lack of evolution in gameplay. I think the whole point of the game is its simplicity and its "realness" and you wont get a more realistic game than this. ¿What where you expecting? ¿New weapons? ¿Super bosses? This is not a resident evil game.,,5. "We are forced to like Abby when she is a horrible character" I absolutely loved Abby, despite initially furisouly hating her (as Naughty Dog intended). I probably even took to liking her more than Ellie by the end. Hating her because of her initial actions and failing to see how she is a perfect equivalent to Ellie (without the benefit of an entire first game to know her better) shows a lack of maturity and open-mindedness needed to fully understand this game's story.,,This game surely has its falws, but in my opinion its a strong GOTY contender. Its an amazing game, the story hits incredibly hard and its super fun to play. Unlike games like KH3, which mantain that nostalgia of childhood but feel "inmature" when playing them as an adult as compared to playing them as a child, TLOU2 feels like it has grown with me. Its an adult game, based on the first game's consequences. Its beautiful.
253) Never has a piece of media affected me with the intensity that the Last of Us 2 has, and I doubt one ever will. Gorgeous animation, creative gameplay, impeccable writing, I could go on. If you are ready for a gut-wrenching and traumatising but ultimately perfect game, look no further than the Last of Us 2. A truly beautiful masterpiece.
254) Incredible game , more than a game , tnx alot . Deserves waiting for seven years
255) This game is one of the best made in the history, its a shame that most people didnt like, I reaaly enjoy it!
256) This is the best game i have ever played. Im serious... Thank you Naughty Dog for all of the emotional experience.
257) This is a brilliant game with a lot of risks taken from the narrative perspective. It's easy to understand why there are people so wildly mad against it. Small minds.,So, in the end, love it or hate it. But I strongly feel very disappointed seeing so many dumb people destroying this titanic effort full of fine art, talent and inspiration.
258) An Incredible story about revenge and humanity. Gameplay wise, lots of improvements from The Last of Us 1. More polished, incredible animations and music, and beautiful graphics. But where the game really shines is the story. Without getting into spoilers it's hard to describe the story, but it is as human as the first game. The biggest difference is the number of characters. The scale of this game is larger, with more parties involved. The story was quite controversial, but for someone who can empathize with both sides of something, you will thoroughly enjoy this incredible game.
259) It's definitely a great game! People who are hating it didn't understand that there are NO HEROES in the last of us, there's no good, nor bad, there's SURVIVAL at ANY costs, and sometimes, that leads to revenge and brutality. For Abby, Joel is a monster, and she wants to avenge her father's death, so she kills Joel. That triggers hatred and brutality inside Ellie and now she seeks revenge. Through the game, both Abby and Ellie begin to understand that revenge leads to nothing but more violence and brutality. The game is great, amazing graphics, IT IS A MASTERPIECE.
260) In all parts , this game is the best game in the history of the game , but i can not choose between this game and red dead 2 as the best game in history
261) Best game of the year this game was the best game I am ever played I love it
262) One of the most emotionally complex games you will ever play. It has drawn criticism but really the reason people are annoyed is exactly what makes this game so utterly compelling. You are not supposed to like what happens. It is a horror game set in a world where everything has gone to hell with 3 dimensional characters who do terrible things with terrible consequences but with noble intentions. Hands down the best game of this generation
263) Very interesting and correct presentation of the plot, which makes you think. Good acting, interesting gameplay - ideal.
264) The BEST game ever made! So deep... so emotional... a great experience. Like it more tha the 1st one.
265) Masterpiece. 10 out of 10 in every aspect. Unbelievably acted. One of the most moving games ever in video games history.
266) Best story ever :,Story10/10,Gameplay10/10,Graffic10/10,Dont listen to nagative reviews they are x box players or bots or they didnt undrestand the story.
267) There are games, and there are stories.,This story will make you think nothing is right or wrong in the world, it depends on the perspective. What an emotional rollercoaster till the very end. I have to say the story takes a notch higher than the first game through multidimensional character development
268) This game just finished this videogames generation with golden key! Im my opinion, It's on the top 3 best Playstation games ever!
269) This was the most powerful, gut-wrenching game I've ever played. Amazing story. Powerful ending. Loved it.
270) This game is really good. I enjoyed this game, I loved this game, I laughed this game, I cried this game. I felt the spirit of this game
271) My review of this game would be way over 5000 characters.,,Put briefly:,Sound design A+ (Highlights: snow, spatial sound, rain, horses),Sound composition: A (Highlights: Santaolalla is a genius. Not as good as TLOU1 in the emotive motif department but better in the gameplay defining sense),Visuals: A+ (Incredible that the "graphics" are achievable on dated hardware, but the real star is the variety of artistic assets, quality of animations, etc. Forgiven for re-using assets where hardware limitations apply.),Environments: A+ (As above, atmospheric visuals are world-beating. Semi-open world done well. Great for varied stealth approaches),,Directing: B+ (Druckmann isn't Ozu, but it's still industry-leading. Cameras, pacing, scenewriting are all good in my opinion. Not perfect, but good. Epilogue detracts from this, as do some abrupt transitions and overuse of flashbacks.),,Characters: B (ND took a huge risk in Abby. If you hate her then you'll probably hate a lot of this game. I personally think she is a great character. Other highlights: Dina, Owen, Joel. Weak points abound for Jesse, Manny, Tommy, Yara and Ellie. The last one being another thorn in people's sides. I understand why. Flawed but still industry-leading: Maria, Lev.  I care more about all of these characters than just about any character in any other video game.),,Story: B (I split this in two: 1 = narrative cohesion and plot is quite poor overall. I don't take much issue with the cohesion of the main game's events - they're wrapped up into a tiny 3-day package so that makes sense - but the epilogue is a painful addition. 2 = Narrative power. The narrative makes for extremely compelling gameplay and moves things along like a nuke has gone off. Extremely effective narrative in this sense).,,Gameplay: A+ (Game engine is robust and satisfying. Gunplay is awesome. AI is second to none. Difficulty is too forgiving at higher difficulties - you don't take that much damage. Large gap between survivor+ stealth sections, which are hard, and survivor+ gunfights, which are easy. Shows overreliance on super-vigilant AI to emulate difficulty
272) Naughtydog does it again! cool/calm to extremely intense back to calm in the matter of minutes. Great story to compliment the 1st game.
273) Simply the best game ever. Best story ever. I can't believe we've had such a game. And I'm shoked by the hate some people give it. Honestly couldn't have been any better. I'd give it 12 if I could
274) For me is 12 out of 10! Amazing game, no doubt. Great story, directed in very interesting way. Loads of story twists and jaw dropping moments on the way! And to most precious thing in this game is climate, with perfectly chosen music.,Thank you Nought Dog for all your hard work!
275) This was a really spectacular game from all perspectives. The graphics and game play improved from the first game. The storytelling is compelling. Most of the negative reviews seem to be based on a dislike of how the story unfolded for the main characters. I certainly felt conflicted about the overall plot. But the way the developers force you to grapple with your own moral matrix and sense of right/wrong. This is a game without a true pro/antagonist as everyone in this post-apocalyptic world is imperfect and it is stunning.
276) Genius history! Graphic 10/10! Level-Design 10/10! Gameplay - very old for 2020 year, probably in 2013 it was very good, but now not
277) I was somewhat scared that the game was terrible after some reviews, but when I played it I realised that the people rating it were idiots who didnt even start playing this amazing game.(abby is also sick to play aswell people who are sayin **** about her are just lil stupid mysogynists dont worry about not liking hee wtory if you just started out with tlou2 because you will love it like me)
278) A unique, engaging story for a mature audience.  An atmospheric world, refined film dialogues.  animations at a very high level.  amazing sound and ambient.  pleasant control.  Refined in every way.  the only drawback that comes to mind is the strange steering of the boat and the slightly out-of-the-box episode on the island of Scars.
279) This is a masterpiece, negative reviews are most likely given by kids who are emotionally hurt by the story and therefore give a negative review (palmface) and are not capable yet to reflect and rate the game objectively.,On the other hand, there might be the even more pity case when there are basement warriors rating the game negative because there are afraid of confident homosexual women and are not being served the old feminine sexualized stereotype. Instead of facing diversity, they allege a dark agenda behind it all.,,Other than that I cannot think of a serious critique, think of any category, graphic, writing, gameplay... it just scores badly high at anything. My rating is calibrated by having played any horror survival or adventure game of the last 20 years.
280) I'll be honest, I'm not 100% done with the game but so far it's incredibly well-paced, looks great, plays great, and has a gripping plot. IDK what the haters are all about, but the Metascore is definitely more accurate than the User Score in this case.
281) We all have different opinions, the problem starts when we feel our opinion is worth more than what anyone else can say. This game is about emotion, not rationality. The world we live in operates on rationality. I think that's why a lot of people don't understand it, because you need compassion to get it. One of the biggest critiques is that people still don't like abby after hours of gameplay. You don't have to like her, you just have to understand how she lives and lived. It's you know, the grey zone. At the end of the day, opinions are opinions, so I try not to let anyone else’s dislike of the game get to me since no matter what I still have the personal enjoyment that I have felt playing this. I just hope the negative response doesn’t end up hurting the chances of a Part 3 lol. It really is a game, where if I had stopped playing in a moment when I'm VERY INTENDED to be feeling negative emotions - I would've missed out on the journey that the game is and would not have seen the big picture that ended up in me really digging it, to the point of also thinking about it for weeks. One of the best games I've played at least in the amount of how much it made me truly feel. The Last of Us 2 is a perfect sequel.
282) The best game of this generation. Scroll you, haters, this is an awesome scenery, awesome gameplay and awesome amount of soul.
283) Best game ever, don’t listen to the bots and the cry babies, this game is a masterpiece, hands down game of the year!
284) This is the exact game that a young adult, living so uneventfully during a pandemic, should play. This consequence that could only exist in a world akin to one The Last of Us Part 2 is set is invoking of unusual contemplation that could inspire the current generation to partake in becoming meaningful. There is a humanity in these characters that is difficult to experience in the worlds of the people that are likely to play this game, and that is allowing of the necessity of this game.
285) I just finished to play the game and I can say that this is the best game I've played so far this year, it has got a lot of details and story it's truly wonderful made, a real masterpiece. Naughty dog, you did it again.
286) The Last of Us 2 is for me the perfect sequel that could’ve been made. The way that they connected the first game and how they make you see that every story has two sides defines a perfect storytelling for me. Unfortunately Seth conflict was absolutely unnecessary for me, but since it didn’t take a huge place in the game, I can forget it.,The gameplay is perfect, and the graphics are amazing. The level design is so well made and the gameplay contrast between Ellie and Abby is great. I don’t get it why so many people got mad with this game. If you liked the first game, I really recommend you playing it. 9.8/10
287) I think it is a great game, the story is good. The gameplay is very renovated and good. The only thing is the final, so opened. But the entire game is great.
288) This is a game like no other. If you want to experience a brutal/realistic world, this is the game for you. This game will not be your cliche saving the princess, or saving the world. You know a game has reached new plateaus when it can divide the fans in two. This is a game that will make you continue thinking about it for days afterwards. You'll feel a wide range of emotions. I highly recommend it, and thank you Naughty Dog for this amazing emotional rollercoaster.
289) One of the best game ever. The plot and agenda do not affect the impression of the game in any way.
290) This game is GOAT.You dont know how much i enjoyed watching this game, think i watch a movie not a PS game from graphics to the actors.This game is special by story because there is not happy end and thats really annoying for me.This is the only game I started crying
291) This is a masterpiece , like the first one and brings the gameplay to another level. It's 2020 so I'm not surprised that people get offended by anything .
292) This game is a masterpiece, and unlike any other game I've ever played.,- Easily the most beautiful soundtrack, environments, world-building and graphics of any PS4 game.,- Complex characters making flawed, human decisions makes for a gripping story.,- The perspective flip to Abby took me by surprise, and nailed home the message that these people you're killing are the heroes of their own story, and that Abby and Ellie are two sides of the same coin.,- There are a lot of lovingly crafted cutscenes, which enable character development which makes the pain raw and heavy when those characters are unceremoniously killed off.,- Seattle is well realised - I spotted several buildings I'd been to! It's a shame they clearly weren't allowed to use the Starbucks name!,- Holy **** every time I had to kill a dog or an enemies mates called out his name....christ. It's a bleak and violent world our protagonists live in.,,Overall, having completed one playthrough, I find it to exceed the emotional weight of the first game, improve on nearly every aspect of it, and truly made me agonise and empathise with the characters.,,I am a naughty dog fanboy, and this release only cements that further. I can't wait to see where they go next, but I feel like Ellie's story is done.
293) Just a phenomenal game. The story while gut wrenching has true passion behind it. I felt more while playing this game than I have others. The graphics, voice acting, gameplay above all was incredible.
294) Pls play the game before rate it, is masterpiece and you need to understand the story to live it
295) Everything I wished for. 10/10 toasters for me. Don’t listen to the muppets that probably didn’t play more than a couple of hours.
296) game of the year for me. it made me feel so many emotions i cried so much in the end... a masterpiece just like the the first one
297) Incredible Narrative with great gameplay. The world is amazing and the graphics are the best i've ever seen.
298) One of the best games i have ever played. Story game play everything is at high level. Will definitely play it second time!
299) The best game which I played ever, sea of emotions, but first time end was not understand for me. For understanding u need 2 days or watch video-explain, how I did:). My rate this game is 9/10, 96/100. But I put 10, to up players rating, because some monkeys said this SJW game. I agree with it, but it is the smallest part from all biggest game.
300) Awesome game ,true is has some flaws..sure,but i really enjoyed it ,could be a better ending tho. Hope they will make part 3.
301) As Hood orbvent better than first TLOU. Impressive graphic, and gameplay and very interesting plot.
302) The last of us part 2 is not only outstanding in graphics, gameplay and acting, but has a story that invites you to go on the same arc as the characters. That being said, I wouldn't recommend it if you're not willing to sob. I've never been more invested in (and heartbroken by) a game. For me, that is undoubtedly to its credit.
303) This Its A Good Game,Your characters, this story its amazing and ellie and joel is awesome characters in Ps4 games and The last of us its amazing And soundtrack Ist Beautiful And
304) A true masterpiece and a fitting end for the ps4 pro. Amazing emotional rollercoaster with great graphics, animations, gameplay, combat and fresh surprising story. Must play!
305) I liked it so much The graphics was incredible and the technology that naughty dog used was fantastic The story was a good story Idk why people hate it so much A good sequel
306) I really like to play this game. Every time I have completed the game, I found a lot of new details, I think this is a really good game !! nice work guys!!
307) This is my new favourite game of all time. An absolute thought-provoking, emotional, intense, and perfect masterpiece.
308) Thanks every man who have made the game, its the best game I ever play. I don’t understand why such a small rating here. Its the best story, the best game about relationships between people in the Apocalypse. The game is permeated by the idea that revenge is meaningless, that good and evil do not exixt, every one has their own thruth.I thank every one who worked on this game and thank Neil Druck Ann!
309) Although there are a lot of trouble in this game, I still see it as a good game after I pass through, the scene and the action inside is so beautiful, so many details, we cannot deny naughty dog's hard work, even they had been changed a lot by Nile.
310) One of the best games I've ever played, and definitely the best story in a game.,,Technicaly, the game excels and surpasses its predecessor in many aspects. The jogabillity or controls are good, but not perfect, but just as in LoU, they work very well to break the monotony and give some action between the cutscenes. The visual, animations, and expressions, on the other hand, are just perfect and far better than I would ever expect for a PS4 game.,,But the story and characters are the best part of the game...,,I had low expections at start because Last of Us (part 1) ended in a way that didn't leave much were to go afterward, and I've also read that part 2 would be a journey of vengeance, which could be very empty. Well, it is not. The core of the game is about how complex the characters are and how broken or wrong they can be. Nothing in the story is black and white and even the worst enemies have reasons.,,I see there are lots of bad reviews of the game, but reading through them I can only understand that people who wrote those were not intelligent or adult enough to understand the plot.,,Last of Us part 2 makes the player do terrible things. It then gives the player control over the (at the time) antagonist and understand that she has a whole lot story and motivations of her own and to show how big and bad were the consequences of Ellie's actions. And this is simply a great decision from Naughty Dog...,While we are used to games depicting the worse villans and faceless enemies, LoUp2 makes you care for, or at least understand, every one of them.,,I actually liked to play with Abby more, because her journey was to ascension while Ellie's was to damnation.
311) The gameplay is awsome and Naughty Dog fulfilles it's promise on that.,The story on the other hand,,That was hell of a way to tell anything you think and do might not be true and just. The things you do for the greater good or selfish desires can easly lead to others and innocents doom. It' s a very good way to say that people who believes that no one can possibly disagree with them for any honest reason is dangerous and pathetic for a stable and peaceful commnity too, just like Thomas Sowell said once.,People! Don't be pathetic and dangerous! Please.
312) A lot of the negativity I heard online made me not wanna get this game at first. But I said screw it and gave it a try and I’m glad I did! The game is beautiful the story is personal the violence in the game is just wow. I understand some pple are upset with the direction of the game but me personally I don’t see it as big as an issue as other do
313) The best game i have already played, it is complete in The history, The gameplay and soundtrack
314) I would have rated it 7,or 8. But people are rating it 0 or 1 just because they are angry at the developers. The game, as a game, is amazing, and everyone should play it.
315) I don't get the hate people are giving this. Imho, what a story, that only could give this game 10/10 , but what i really was amazed about was all the small details here and there. Gameplaywise it was enjoyable, smooth and punishing at the right times. And i loved that the trophies were easy to get this time. Now don't go and change that in the sequel! Or anything else
316) The Last of Us part 2 is a masterpiece. Definitely, it is one of the best games I've ever played on PS4. The end almost made me cry and it's as good as the first game.,Abby and the other new characters are incredible.  The game is vey well done, with great graphics, soundtrack, action, adventure and lots of feelings.,I really love the game and I can't understand why there are so many haters. The story is perfect and realistic. It's really good to know both sides of the characters' story (Abby and Ellie).,I really hope there will be a sequel.
317) Bold story! Ignore the hate this is one of the best games of the generation. Naughty Dog took some serious risks and elevated storytelling in gaming. The title is getting hate for its inclusion of LGBTQ+ characters. This hate shows that games need more queer characters or the medium will be forever stuck pandering to basement dwelling misogynists.
318) I finished The Last of Us 2 on Sunday, October 11, 2020. I borrowed a PS4 to play The Last of Us 1 and 2. I finished 1 just over three weeks ago. And what I can say is, The Last of Us 1 is a great game. Great. However, The Last of Us 2 is a game that is impossible to describe. It is a unique experience. Much better than 1 in every way. It is a brutal, credible game and brings us a reflection that I have never seen in any game, film or book. In short: this game is a masterpiece. It is the game that separates adults from children. It is a game that requires the player to have a more mature mindset. It is not a simple video game. The way the story was told is something unique. If you're reading this here and haven't played the game yet: play it, but be there and face it with an open mind and let yourself be allowed and be absolved by the narrative. I still can't get the game out of my head. It is without a doubt one of the best games I have ever played in my life. And the ending is impressive, I cried like a boy and I was bad, very bad. Best of all, it opens up infinite possibilities for The Last of Us 3. It's not just a game, it's an experience. And this is a game about "Revenge", in this game there is no justice, just like the 1, everything is a matter of perspective.
319) Good storytelling, characters, graphics, level design and details! Best sequel after HL2 ))
320) Do not listen to the bad critics, this game is awesome just the story change.
321) The best game i have ever played, really masterpiece, i love this game more than first part
322) I think this game is one of the best in its genre and setting. Many people complain about the game's terrible ending and "LGBT propaganda", but how can this stop you from enjoying the game? And a little more about LGBT. If you went through The first part of The game The Last Of Us "Left Behind", you might understand that Ellie is a lesbian. Why, then, are you hurling insults at the second part, and not at the DLC to the first part?
323) I dont find any explain why people destroy this game. If Naughty Dog don't develop the third part, it would be really bad for those who do like this story. Words for the game,- Raw,- Forgiveness,- Suffer,Action 10/10,Story 8/10,Dialogue 8/10,Adreline for the gamer 10000/10,Picture 10/10,Better than the first part
324) Loved it. The game was much longer then expected and very challenging. Good writing.
325) Keep on, finish it and realize its a great story of revenge and survival.,Its not forgiving, its putting a true end to the cycle.
326) Literally, the best game ever made. Soundtrack, character development, brilliant script. The way this games plays with your emotions 2 TIMES is something really well constructed. Congrats Neil, you just made a perfect game. (I guess the reason people didn't like the game, is just because they don't accept,homosexual relations, or they simply wasn't ready to play it ). Shame on you guys.
327) everything about this game is awesome! graphic, game play and ....,But the most important of them is the STORY!
328) This game presents you amazing gameplay and story. No game felt like that. So many details in dynamics, battle area and guns. This is the most realistic experience that you can gain.Gameplay is so cinematic and looks amazing glad to we have Naughty Dog and Neil Druckman. If we come story part , story is so good. Shows you another perspectives sometimes it hurts you and guys that's the world is. They behaved brave and they did awesome job. Thank you for this game
329) This is a bold game, and requires the player to stop and think. Many times. Naughty Dog could easily have created a sequel that was another adventure with Joel & Ellie, and that would have been fine, full fan service but in the end forgettable. The story they chose to tell was destined to upset and dissapoint, but that is part of why I love this game, it forces you to realize that there is more to everything than what you first realize. A simple lesson but one that still is important. Life is not fair, in real life, people you love and treasure can be taken from you in the blink of an eye. Nothing is for granted. Real life can be cruel and unfair, just like it is in TLOU2. I like to think naughty dog expected the players to make the same Journey as Ellie, and cope with their grief as she did. But alot of people just wanted to kill Abby. If that was a choice, the game would have had less meaning and less food for thought, you could say the same for the ending we got but thats how views are different. An eye for an eye would leave the world blind.
330) Absolutely perfect gameplay, stunning graphics and animations... unusually good story on how pointless revenge is.,Perfect game.
331) The best game EVER! Naughty Dog didn't give us what we expected at all and that is THE POINT! This is a refreshing new game, stunning mechanics and graphics, wonderful music, and such a brave STORY. Many people didn´t understand it but it is very complex and beautiful story. This is a masterpiece in every single aspects. MUST PLAY for sure. Be prepare for the most scary roller coaster ever (You won't be prepare at all XD )
332) This is an excellent game. Amazing soundtrack, great story, complex characters and it has some of the best visual effects I have ever seen in a game.,Most people is just mad cause they wanted a "happy ending" this game feels like the real life. No one is special, not even your main characters.,The game makes you feel many emotions.
333) Its the **** game of my life. You have to be really mature to understand ALL the massege behind the history. Its the best game experience of your life
334) This game is a masterpiece! Probably the best story I ever played since GTA San Andreas. Don't believe in negative and closeminded reviews here. If you're not open minded and don't want to explore the different perspective of the story, and if you think you're stuck with the emotions when you played the Part 1, then this game is not for you.!
335) The game is without a doubt a masterpiece. I loved the story and the gameplay, as well as the photography and the soundtrack.  Simply wonderful!
336) I have now played the game within 6 days and I have to say that I have never played such a good video game. It's got so much drama, pain, love, hate and action ... it got me so upset inside, no video game has done it before. Add to that these great graphics on the PS4 Pro .... wow! The negative reviews, some of which were already posted before the game was played through by the people, are a cheek and do not do the game justice!
337) This game is great. She gave me 27 hours of incredible emotions. Everything is amazing in this game: graphics, story, gameplay, facial animations, atmosphere. The plot is very interesting and unusual. The way the developers were able to continue the story of the first part and develop it so unusually makes you clap standing up. At first, we think that Abby and her friends are enemies and villains. But then the game shows these characters from the reverse side. And it turns out that they are not so bad. By the end of the game, you even start to dislike Ellie. The finale is just gorgeous. It makes you think about everything that happened. The plot in this game is incredibly good and thoughtful. It is rare to find a game with such a story. The gameplay has not changed significantly, but it has new features. Facial animations are awesome. Summing up, I will say that absolutely all PS4 owners need to buy and pass this game. And for those who hate this game, I sympathize. Go play your Mario or Legends of zelda.
338) This game is really masterpeace Its not another action brual game when you just shoot and search supplies Well part 1 was amazing that story and everything about it But part 2 is really something, for me game of decade,    this gonna be stuck in me head for long time
339) A fitting continuation from the first part. A lot of people didn’t like the story because they killed off Joel, but it needed to happen.
340) I just make it simple Here. The best Story and deepest characters ever created in an Franchise only existing of two Games. Will Always stay in my memory. 12/10
341) This game is a masterpiece. Gives you an story of revenge that makes you uncomfortable, in pain, angry and sad. I understand why some people hates it. This game has a complex group of emotions that is difficult to understand for some people. In my opinion story has no flaws but some people seems to not understand Ellie's motivations to have her revenge. More than loosing Joel she is angry with herself for not forgive him. That's why her only way to forgive herself is accomplishing the revenge and kill Abby. The only part that is harder to understand is why she didn't kill Abby at the end. I know Joel wouldn't like this Ellie but I think something Lev related would be a better way to go throw this path.
342) This is the greatest game of this generation. The backlash it's getting is ridiculous and the reason why we can't have nice things. I hope Naughty Dog and other devs will keep making incredible stories like the last of us 2. Games that make us feel alive.
343) One of the best games I have ever played that takes cinema as it's biggest influence. Is it a game? Is it a movie? Who the **** knows but I aimed guns and fired them, ducked and dodged and crawled and pummeled attack dogs heads in and burned them to death with Molotov's and climbed skyscrapers and died over and over and enjoyed the hell out of it. This is  a really great game, ignore insolent remarks pertaining to narrative, the experience here is plenty of fun if you like intense horror themed games and aren't brutally triggered if someone in your game ain't christian or whatever.
344) Just sublime.,Sadly a lot of people could not pass the hate or what I would call, first phase of the game.,This game is more complex that part I in every way possible. It elevates the medium to a whole new level. One game of a kind,  masterpiece.
345) Absolute best game I've ever played.  I am so grateful.  Wonderful story and game mechanics and art and physics etc.  I usually play open world and simulation games but I played this after playing the first game and this one is even better than the last of us remastered.  Don't listen to these negative reviews.  Some people are just mad about the story that it includes characters who make more "modern" choices.
346) The gameplay is very good and fluid, the story is somewhat repetitive but does not lose the thread of the plot, the graphics are excellent and you can see the detail they did in all this time; you fall in love with the characters and the stories that collectible documents contain. undoubtedly the best farewell game for play 4; cyberpunk has it hard.
347) The best game of this year . Why people hate this game ? Game of the year 2020 .
348) Giving this a 10 to offset the negative scores of the snowflake man children who struggle to understand that writing strong female leads and, god forbid, gay people into games isn't an attempt to promote some Machiavellian agenda.
349) This is a beautiful game with incredible  narrative which takes bold chooses, I absolutely loved every second of it, and think that the last of us is pure artistry.,Neil druckmann is a master storyteller.,The gameplay is engaging and the visuals are stellar
350) As Shown by the reviews this game is so love-hate you are either gonna really love it or hate it i lo9ved every minute for as long as it lasted!
351) Great game. It totally put me into the characters emotions and made me experience the story from two different angles. Gameplay is immersive and graphics are some of the best in the market. If you want to play as Joel, go ahead and play the first game. If you have a problem with girls being protagonist of a game and different ethnics and diverse gender identities, get some help.
352) This game some people may say this game is disappointing, well I'd like to say that this game is an absolute masterpiece not just because of the gameplay , the visuals, the details everything is perfect and most importantly the story .Many people argue that because of Joel's death people started treating this game as trash but  what i think is this game had the best and i mean the best story that has been written for a game THE BEST SEQUEL to part one. The story is basically about redemption and HOPE eventhough it might be depressing and sad but thats okay at the end of the day this game truly touched my heart HATS OFF to Neil Druckmann and the entire team of Naughty Dog.I really.really hope that in the very near future Naughty Dog makes a part 3 for the game I'd really love it and all the fans of the last of us P.S Neil Druckmann i hope you do make another super duper masterpiece "THE LAST OF US PART 3"
353) I consider this game an emotional masterpiece that made me connect with each of the characters in the game and move the story with them moment by moment. I think this game had a bitter but very clever story that can make you feel the feeling of falling in love.  Hate the feeling of hatred to give me a real sense of forgiveness. I am a gamer who's very important to the game's graphics. The perfect and unique graphics of this game were really incredible.  Paying attention to very detailed details along with a dreamy graphic and a realistic story was an amazing experience for me that I know I will not forget the experience of this game for years, this is my overall experience of this masterpiece
354) Already beaten the game on Survivor. Playing on grounded now. It is a work of art that feels more like a video game than the original. As for the story, it sure has plotholes but I did like it cuz I did learn to empathize (Also played the original like 5 times now)
355) The Last of Us is the best game series I have ever played, fuc* those haters.
356) Register on Metacritic only for writing this review.,,1. The game is amazing,2. The plot unbelievably brave and emotionally involved. Complex allusions on early earlier Christianity. Story so emotion, so advanced.,3. The graphics, the graphics marvelous. I couldn't even imagine what PS4 cat show so perfect graphics level,4. The gameplay a bit boring closer to the end but still enjoyable,,I applaud Neil and say thank you so much for not being afraid to make this game.,Just a masterpiece for centuries,,And I enjoyed watching how all these haters cry about the SJW is not there.,Hope this genius will continue to make similar games.
357) The best video game I’ve ever played. This story is not for everyone, but this is honestly the best one I’ve ever had the privilege of listening to. The themes and messages are so powerful. It truly resonated with me. I still can’t stop thinking about it nearly 2 months after beating it.
358) Best game in the world! History and gameplay/ melhor jogo do mundo! Historia e gameplay
359) gave a great history arc with beatiful scrnery and music. Ended up being a "lets see each side point of view kind of thing".
360) This is a great game. Great story, graphics, and gameplay. It deserves a 10. There are some dumb people on this website who say the game deserve a 7/10 but are giving it a zero to “counter all the stoopid 10’s” and now it has a 5/10 user score which is less than they said it deserved in the first place. There are also a lot of **** people who are giving a zero because a character is gay. Their argument is that its shoving politics down their throat. They dont understand that some people are born gay and it has nothing to do with them or politics. Thats how real life works and the game world is supposed to reflect the real world. Get over it.
361) Masterpiece in storytelling and graphics. There are a lot of interesting characters with each there own problems to deal with, and the animations are the best in the buisse.
362) Another great, great story from naughty dog. This game touches on so many major themes, such as war, vengeance, hope. Impossible to call it “only a videogame”
363) This game is a masterpiece its all i have to say the game is simply incredible in all of the aspects congratiolations sony and naughty dog
364) The game is a masterpiece in storytelling. The revenge story is taken to new heights in a way only the last of us could do. We learn there is a price to pay if you follow this path. The gameplay and graphics are excelent! Highly recommended
365) I absolutely  love this game bec. At one point it made you hate a certain character  for a certain reason and then made you understand the perspectives of this character  and you felt bad for the character  its an absolute  amazing
366) I'm speechlees... I've never seen a story so amazing like this one in any movie, book or game. This is a masterpiece and it will be remembered as one of the best games in history, if not the best.
367) An absolutely stellar game from start to finish. The Last of Us 2 forces players to be uncomfortable, and in this case that is a very good thing. The tidal wave of poor reviews is to be expected given the difficult emotional challenge presented by this story. It isn't a challenge you can overcome with a controller, but one you have to make right with yourself and your OWN lust for revenge. Inevitably, some people will fail that emotional challenge, and thus you get the 0 scores. I highly encourage you to embark on this journey yourself, and see which you are. This is the most intense video game story that has ever been told, and it was done in a masterful way.
368) I absolutely loved this game. Didn't read the reviews until I'd finished to avoid spoilers and I'm stunned at how half the internet seems to have it! The storytelling I thought was so clever and original. Initially when we went back a few days and relived the story as Abby I just couldn't wait to get back to the confrontation but seeing everything from Abby's perspective and seeing the hurt Ellie had caused really made me question whose side I was on.,,Joel's death was gruesome and horrendous, but Abby was trying to find vengeance for her father in the same way we had come to understand Ellie was. I was glad at the end that Ellie spared her. It seems there's no good guys and bad guys in the post apocalyptic world, just different shades of loss.,,Basically, I think I felt all the things the writers wanted me to feel and I wonder if maybe it was easier for me because I didn't play the first game (I just watched a recap on YouTube) so I wasn't quite as emotionally attached to Joel and Ellie as some other may have been.,,Story aside, so much of the game was immersive and visually stunning. Escaping from the scar island under the burning debris was incredible, as was much of the dark immersive parts with infected coming at you from nowhere, and the intensity of the sniper scene where you feel angry when he kills Manny only for you to then discover it's Tommy.,,It felt like a level of storytelling that wouldn't be possible in a film and for the first time in a very long time I was disappointed when the game ended and I wanted more.,,I really don't understand all the negative reviews, this experience was completely epic.
369) This was for me the game of this generation.,What a masterpiece!,There are so many **** and plot twists that i really enjoyed. Gameplay wise its also truly 200%! Graphics, sound, combat, environments, animations, no game does it better. Thanks Naughty Dog, cant wait for Pt3.
370) The Last of Us Part II is a worthy sequel.  The gameplay was tightened up and improved, but the core remained the same.  The graphics are good, but not great.  The story is great, but Abby's campaign is not great.  I remember the ending of the game, the message of the game is ambiguous.  The game retains the thesis of the first part about the meaning of life and the struggle for it.
371) This game is a masterpiece. let everyone judge for themselves, not following the opinions of others. Mine is as I wrote above.
372) Best exclusive on PS4!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ToP !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
373) To the people who have actually understood the game at all: what an unique life experience Naughty Dog offered us!
374) Masterpiece!! If one game can overtake the first The last of us is The last of us part 2. Very emotional, everything happens for a reason in the game , if you alienate after Joel's death give him a chance you will be rewarded by this masterpiece
375) I just love this game, I think people did not understand why ellie does not kill abby, the sensations are intense and real this game is the best
376) I am ashamed to say I was one of the internet rabble who hated on this game before I played it. At the suggestion of a friend I put all my pre conceived thoughts aside and decided to give a chance and thank god I did, it's amazing. Graphics, atmosphere, script, voice acting are all top notch, yep it's confronting all right but I grew to really enjoy Abby as a character and loved playing as her as much as I did Ellie. Does not deserve the hate it has been getting at all.
377) I know that many people hate this game, but developers did something different and i really liked that. For those who hated the game i recommend to replay it and see it from another perspective. You will like it. They improved graphics, physics, combat and the general environment. I liked the fact that they inserted a dodge button. It is a masterpiece. Great job as always Naughty Dog. Cant wait for part 3!!!
378) TLOU Part 2 improves upon every aspect of the first game and blows other games out of the water. The graphics, environment, soundtrack, voice acting/motion capture and attention to detail are second to none. Naughty Dog took a big risk with the storyline and regardless of how you feel about it, it generates so much more discussion and attention than any game out there. I feel like the people that review bomb this game didn't give it a chance, didn't play through it and can't demonstrate the maturity to understand what the developers did. If the first game centered around Abby and her dad with the same ending as Part 1, people would have the same reaction towards Ellie and Joel that they had towards Abby in this game. I was initially disappointed with Naughty Dog upon hearing the leaks, but upon playing through I can say this is both my favorite game on the PS4 and one of the most well executed video games of the past decade. The fact that Naughty Dog could make myself and so many others care about fictional characters in a video game is a testament to the incredible work they put in.
379) In my opinion its 10/10rating.story is perfect,gameplay is perfect,combat fighting is perfect and the zombies as scary as before.give me one reason not to be the best??
380) A game for adults, mucho better than part 1, the story is complex, graphics are beautiful, but u need to play on PS4 to compreend, use youtube os not usefull
381) True masterpiece, a brutal, human and poetic story with an incredible gameplay and graphics - a must play.
382) If you start this game with an open mind, it will be a 10/10 for the game play, graphics, environments, acting, and story. If you start this game with expectations of an Elie and Joel zombie killing adventure fun time, then you will be disappointed. If you try to fight the writers ever step of the way, then you will hate it. If you take a step back, and try to understand what the writers are doing to you, showing you the other perspective, you will hate them for making taking you to the darkest parts of our soul, but love them for the new person you will become.
383) Is a good game it's just that in this case the Director of the game Told that this history Will be More cruel and mature...Is not a bad game it's only a very different game from Tlou.
384) This game is an absolute masterpiece 7 years in the waiting well worth it. This games story is something different and unique and really realistic and true to characters. Its an emotional experience and really dark at times. With some minor flaws of pacing like half way through the game it throws you back ain the beginning with another character to show their point of view.
385) A Master piece! The narrative dude it's a awesome work ... Congrats! The new chance in the gameplay, deeper crafting and stuning graphics! I'm love with This Game!!!
386) This is a story for the ages...,I'll skip over the gameplay/graphics because they're top notch.,,But the story, the themes it plays with, the emotions it triggers... wow, it was exhausting, it was tough, sometimes I didn't even want to do what the game wanted me to. But I understood that I had to go through it.,This isn't your typical revenge story that required you to get your revenge at the end. This is a story about grief and forgiveness.,This is a story about how important it is to walk into someone else's shoes.,,SPOILERS AHEAD!,,The developers did an amazing job at making us feel enraged at Abby for what she did to Joel. We weren't just playing Ellie, we were Ellie, we understood her motivations and goals and we were up for it. But slowly we started seeing the cracks in her. The increasing violence to reach her goal, to kill the woman who killed Joel. And she sees it too but waves it all away because killing Abby is all that matters. And we do the same, we question sometimes her actions but we push through. We wave away Dina's concerns so we can head off early to get to Nora. We're so blinded by our thirst for revenge that nothing else matters.,And then we kill a pregnant woman, we get everyone back and we realize that maybe, maybe it's time to put an end to this.,,Enter Abby.,,I'll be honest, the first hours playing Abby I was mad, like, why am I playing the antagonist here?!,Why should I care about her?!,,But then her story unfolds, we see a teenager who's lost her father and is struck with grief for years, and won't ever let go. Even straining her relationship with her friends. Pushing away Owen. She's not realising it yet but she's starting to lose herself. But regardless, revenge is all that matters to her. So she tracks Joel and gets her revenge. And believe me, that thirst will have you do the most despicable things.,,So we play her for the most of the second half of the game. We see her brash/arrogant attitude take a hit when she's being questioned in her belief in the WLF. When the story forces her to care for someone other than herself, for Lev and Yara.,And this awakens something in her, since her dad's passing, while she had friends, she was ultimately a loner. Lev and Yara showed her another part of her that she forgot was there. She realises that, even says it at one point that she's doing it for herself. She realizes that she has to save herself.,And she had to walk into someone else's shoes (Lev and Yara's) to get to that conclusion.,This culminates with the WLF attack on the Seraphites, 2 groups so hellbent on revenge and destruction, they self-destruct, leaving nothing but ashes behind them.,They forgot their humanity and all that mattered was making the other pay.,,Abby wasn't about that anymore, she wanted out, she wanted to care for herself and others, something she hadn't done since her dad's passing.,,And then she goes back to the Aquarium and revenge takes over again. She wants blood. She gets Jesse's, nearly gets Tommy's and if it wasn't for Lev, she would've had Dina's.,In that scene, Lev is Abby's anchor to her humane side, he pulls her back before she crosses that line.,In her quest for revenge against Joel, she's lost everything and everyone, except for Lev. When her eyes open to that, she finally calls it quits, she breaks her cycle of revenge, of destruction. She's ready to rebuild herself by helping provide a brighter future to Lev.,,Ellie on the other hand, she hasn't come to terms, because for her it wasn't all about avenging Joel, but about mending her relationship with him. They had started to mend things out when Abby pulled the rug from under them. Ellie hadn't forgiven Joel for not letting her life mean something and save the world. But she wanted to try.,,That thought is still in her head months later, even as DIna and her have a restful farmlife. But the thought is clinging to her brain like the fungus. It won't let go unless she does something.,,And that something leads her into her revenge path again, she doesn't want to do it but she has to. This is a brilliant representation of mental illness, of ptsd. It's not about the wants but about the urges, the itch that needs scratching. And this is one Ellie can't stand anymore.,,She goes out to enact revenge on Abby.,,When she finds her, Abby is a shell of her old self because of slavery. Ellie is almost hesitant but she has to do it, she doesn't say "want", but "have to". It's an urge.,She almost kills Abby, but in that moment, a flash of Joel goes through her mind. She finally realises that killing her won't bring her peace. If anything, it'll make her feel more miserable.,No, her salvation will come from somewhere different.,,She lets Abby go, and by doing so, she forgives Joel for what he had done in Part I.,She's lost a lot but kept what remained of her humanity. Enough to rebuild what had been lost.,That's why I'm looking forward to Part III...
387) State of the art graphics. gameplay is neither complex nor revolutionary but extremely tense and immersive. The story is quite simple but so powerful and  revolutionary in the ways it's told that it pushes the limits of mainstram media narrative. The way themes like grief, tribalism, revenge but most importantly forgivness are handled is shocking and devastating. A real masterpiece.
388) Great game maybe the story is not happy but it makes you feel the angry of ellie and it has a great gameplay and graphics,
389) Story, characters, script, graphics, art, voice acting (etc) more than make up for not too original gameplay mechanics.
390) I don’t understand why people need to dis this game so much. It might not be as legendary as the first game, but creators definitely put in their souls and heart while making it.I don’t want to argue with people who disrespect the game on why they shouldn’t disrespect a game like this, I  will just support this team with my own way by buying their next game.,My true score for the game is 9/10. I chose 10/10 on the board is because I think the creative team deserves my extra one point while many players here purposely gave low rating on it.
391) Only a word '' MASTERPEICE ''    can't believe really awesome game and why    people hate it
392) It should be noted that it is not a game for everyone, you are going to love it, or you are going to hate it, and you have to understand that nobody is the good and the bad in the story, the game is graphically beautiful, the mechanics improved, it requires a lot of stealth and you feel that you are in the shadows, you will feel the pain, sad, and maybe you feel empathy, it is a story with real events, and personally I learned to learn when to forgive and spend more time with your family because you do not know what could happen for the day in the morning.,,It is a beautiful game and it was special for me because it came out on June 19, which is my birthday.
393) An absolute masterpiece. Ignore the bigoted haters, this is probably the best single player game ever made. It takes 27-30 hours to play through and has plenty of twists and turns along the way.
394) Can’t describe how deep and beautiful this game is, along with the horror of seeing the consequences of Ellie’s choices. I do think Joel deserved better but hey, life is not fair so I can’t expect it to be so in a  post apocalyptic zombie world full of people that would do anything for survival, power and vengeance
395) One of the best games ever made. A true masterpiece not only as a game but as a creative media.
396) One of the greatest games ever made. Thanks to Naughty Dog and Sony Playstation !
397) Perfect Ten! Been loving this franchise since 2013, i hv a high hope on sequal but looking at all the harsh critics made me confused and worried at first, but after finished the game , i felt empty and completely blown away by the story.,Seriously this game gonna get GOTY, naughty dog did it again.
398) This is obviously a direct sequel to the first game and man this is a worthy sequel.,Let's start off with my thoughts on the gameplay.,The first game had satisfying combat but it was relatively basic with crafting in the mix.,But part II builds upon that and refines the combat. There are newer animations and newer stuff to craft. The movement is much faster. The melee combat is as solid as ever. The aim can be a little wonky at times but that just might be due to me being used the 60 fps of the remastered part 1. The AI is much better. Enemies are not as dumb as the first game. The levels are really open most of the time and different routes can be accessed to fight groups of enemies. With added the functionally of swimming every fight is dynamic apart from the scripted ones. The added ability to prone makes stealth much more easier as well.In simple words players can be creative with how they tackle hoardes of enemies.  Basically the gameplay is top notch. One can play the game for the gameplay alone and have a fulfilling experience.,Performance and visuals,I don't need to say much about the graphics. They're simply stunning. From The dark, green, gritty streets of seattle to the bright island of santa berbara everything is beautiful. The environments are complex But The game still somehow manages to run on stable 30 Fps,Pacing,The pacing was generally well but I feel like parts of seattle day 2 and 3 were dragged longer than they should've been and as a result the game felt pretty slow at some points. Story,The story is controversial but it's all a matter of perception. How one approaches the game can dictate or change their thoughts on the story. When the leaks came and everyone was furious I was low-key happy because I knew the story was gonna take a bolder direction(got no spoilers btw) instead of the vanilla stuff we usually get(DKM). You might think you know where things are headed but at the very next moment the game outsmarts you. Some sequences in the middle and the ending especially can be interpreted in different ways and that's what makes the story so good in my opinion. I personally loved the way the story played out but it's fine if you don't. There were certainly some plot holes and questionable stuff like Dina and Mal being able to fight like rambo but no game is perfect.,Overall last of us part II has excellent gameplay with a controversial yet wonderful and emotional script. The characters of Ellie and Abby were brought  to life by the excellent voice actors and the motion capture team.The cycle of hate and love was beautifully presented. It's a masterpiece in the field of storytelling. On a side note make sure you take time with game and fully play it. Don't jump into conclusions without finishing it.
399) I do not know why many did not like this continuation of the tlou series of games.  I really fell in love with this game
400) Amazing game, amazing history, awesome graphics, beautiful gameplay! I recommend 100%
401) *SPOILERS AHEAD*,This game is a cinematic, thematic masterpiece. Following on four years from the initial Last of Us story, we get to see the fallout of Joel's decision to murder an entire hospital full of fireflies to save a girl who reminded him of his daughter. We are introduced to Abby, a strong woman suffering from nightmares due to the death of her father, the only doctor in the world who could (apparently) create a cure for the infected. Only a girl when he died, Abby was fueled with the desire for revenge. This story, in its entirety, is incredible. We are shown a cutscene of Joel singing to Ellie, "If I ever lose you, I surely would loss myself..." as they return to Jackson after the events of the previous game. In the present, it seems that Joel and Ellis are estranged but we don't get a reason why. We are introduced to Abby in the forest and then for half the game we know her as the person who tortured and murdered Joel. We don't know anything about who she is or how she came to be this cold, malicious person we see before us.,Throughout the first half of the game we watch Ellie, Dina & then Jessie travel through Seattle to find Tommy, and Abby. We watch Ellie process her grief and learn why she and Joel were on bad terms: she had gone back to find out the truth of what happened in the hospital, and hated him for it. I cried real tears as she sung Joel's song in the theatre. We also go through Seattle as Ellie, picking off the Wolves one by one until we reach the aquarium, where she does something equally as unforgivable as Abby by killing a pregnant woman (unknown to Ellie at the time). Tommy finished that scene with "they deserved it." In the second half of the game, you play as Abby, learning about the Wolves and their setup, meeting Manny, playing with the dogs that you kill as Ellie (only part of the game I hated, genuinely made me feel sick to kill a dog). We meet Abby's other friends and learn about their normal lives as a doctor and a soldier just doing their jobs. We see that Mel is a kind, compassionate woman, Manny is a funny playboy who loves the ladies and Owen is still in love with Abby after they broke up when they were younger. We learn that Abby is afraid of heights, has a kind heart and cares for Lev, the little boy she saves. We see both sides of the story, two sides of humanity, and all the grey that comes with true humanity.  I cried at the end when we are shown the cutscene of the night before Joel died and the fight that is fuelling Ellie's regret.,This story plays like a novel. You don't need to like everything that happens, just like in a book. The characters are real and fleshed out and raw with genuine reactions and emotions. They are not "good" or "evil". Both Abby and Ellie showed their humanity and their dark sides in this game. Alongside this, the graphics were exquisite. The guitar playing was so real, and the facial expressions had me feeling their fear, sadness, love and hope.,I found this world to be breathtaking, the plot full of wonderful examples of what it means to be human. I truly felt this story in my heart, which is what a good game should be able to achieve. If you don't have emotional range and don't want to be introduced to a wider story of this post-apocalyptic world, then this isn't the game for you.,10/10. Up there with Horizon Zero Dawn for story. Well done Naughty Dog on another great game.
402) Amazing game whith beautiful story i like it,It s too dark and sad it make me cry..
403) Pretty sweet game, the story is realistic and shows many sides of the coin. Really good at portraying the complexities of the human condition in an unforgiving world.  Definately not for people who just see things in black and white or like simplistic stories with happy endings or unrealistic heroic deaths. If you play it without expecting the writers to please you, youll enjoy it! Very refreshing form the average stories we are used to.
404) I’m obviously not surprised that Naughty left me speechless. As a huge fan of the series I can obviously confirm that this game is way more than a masterpiece, it’s just out of this world. It’s all about the cycle of violence and it’s consequential side to it. The unbelievably amazing psychological, emotional and philosophical story might not be for everyone (it’s perfect for me though) but no one can deny the blood, sweat and tears that were shed to create such a mind blowing game and experience
405) Best game ever. direction dubbing everything is perfect. This game defeats any criticism. It is an absolute monumental masterpiece. there is little to say and little to do. point..................
406) i dont know hy user scores end up so low for some great games are they boycotting ps4 maybe xbox lovers who are angry that the game not releases on there platform i dont know but what i know is that last of us part 2 is another super exclusive this game is a awesome and the hraphics are amazing as the gameplay is 2 10/10 other reviews below 9 are amateurres they dont know anything of gaming
407) Graphical, gameplay and story is simply a masterpiece! The new mechanics are a breath of fresh air. The gameplay is so smooth with a steady framerate. The game is definitely one of the best looking ps4 games ever and such a joy to play.
408) A masterpiece, probably the best game of history in every way, im gonna start with the less important things in this game, the graphics and level of detail, it's of course a 11/10, all the scenarios are amazing, the facial expressions of all the characters, i've never seen something like that in any other game, the mechanics and animations are also amazing, i'd say a 9,5/10. And the story, of course it's a 10/10,  i literally have no words to explain how good it is, the amount of feelings that i felt playing this game, love, hate, satisfaction, sadness, happiness, anguish, anger. it's a tide of feelings, and i never felt that with any other game, so for me, it's a 10/10
409) This is the most beautiful continuation of the first part.  But not everyone will understand this game. Thanks Naughtydog :),Это прекраснейшее продолжение первой части. Но эту игру поймут не все. Спасибо Naughtydog :)
410) Great gameplay. Great graphics. Great story. Naughty Dog have done it yet again. Can’t believe I let the leaks get to me because the final act completely made sense. Game of the year.
411) This game is a masterpiece, which plays with the idea of ​​villain and hero, the indignation at the death of Joel and having to play with Abby is unfounded, she is not a villain, and the game clearly demonstrates that Ellie herself, is more villainous than Abby. Both were caught in a cycle of revenge, Abby for Joel killing his father, and Ellie for Abby killing Joel, practically his father too, and in return Ellie killed everyone Abby loves, while when Abby had the opportunity to repeat the act, she was pious, and spared the lives of the innocent. Abby is definitely the hero of the game!
412) This game, for obvious reasons, has a a lot of controversy surrounding it. However, I feel almost as if those who boycott the game missed the point. We are all insignificant at the end of the day, and that is why Joel’s death hurt so much. Because we got to know him so intimately, his death hurt so much more. His end was not fitting, but in the world of TLOU, I don’t think anyone realistically expects their death to be that way. Death is both monumental and trivial in this world and this juxtaposition makes for some incredibly moving moments. This was a heart wrenching, haunting, and painfully real narrative that is ultimately more concerned with forgiveness than revenge. It is a visually stunning, emotionally engaging, and brilliantly written work of art.
413) An amazing game , for me it's like a real story who cannot be happend in our world in this world , the gameplay is really amazing committed to an open-world concept or more diversity in the action sequences ... good story and everything is spectacular in this game , worth to buy this game .
414) Absolute masterpiece. It's definitely not what people expected but if you remain open minded and immerse yourself into this world and a story they wanted to tell, then it evokes so many different emotions. I'm really thankful for the experience.
415) The game itself is excellent!,What of plot twists or lgbt - you were ready for this.
416) I don't now why the game received so much hate.,It's a masterpiece!,The story is an exceptional journey similar to the early season of Game of Thrones.,The graphics is gorgeous and the gameplay is visceral!
417) The best game I have ever played.  Really.  An interesting continuation of the first part.  The characters, in particular, Ellie are fantastic.
418) The Last Of Us Part II İs Masterpiece! This Game is Best Game in the World.Graphics is a Wonderful,Gameplay is a Extraordinary.Story is a Best! Thank You Naughty Dog for The Last Of Us Part II
419) This is the best game that I played on Play station 4. Great gameplay, graphics, not undisputed, but fascinating story
420) A beautifully told story that matches its ambition. While the gameplay and level design is unmatched. My personal game of the generation and my favorite game of all time.
421) Just saying, all users rating this game low are a bunch of homophobe incels. A new generation of games is here, very much FINALLY! We long had to stand women spray-painted in gold, half naked and mute. This game is above everything ever made for PS4. It’s a very emotional trip, too, something to which many gamers aren’t acquainted either, beyond the innumerable bromances we’ve seen along the way, and which they love. Please, play this game with an open mind, and if your mind isn’t very open, just play it for the sake of seeing all the possibilities to the PS4 taken to the limit, and maybe learn something along the way!
422) This game is beyond everything I ever played. The game mechanics and graphics are impressive so say the least and left me stunned. But what makes THE LAST OF US Part II so outstanding is it’s storytelling. It’s quite obvious when you read reviews that a lot of people (meaning: men) have trouble with the plot. That’s no surprise since most of the games out there are designed to appeal to a cliché-version of the masculine view on the world. Quite frankly: that’s exactly what makes most games out there so lame. Their lack of capability in finding new stories to tell with different (shocker: female/queer/trans) characters. TLOUII finally tells a different, diverse story. Play this game with an open mind. You will be rewarded with an emotional ride that might leave you on the verge of tears, as it did me. Finally, I appreciate very much that in this post-apocalyptic world the most vicious, gruesome and violent acts are not committed by the infected but - as is true for the world we live in now - by human beings. I find that a very honest view on the world.
423) Ground breaking gaming experience which make you feel extremely strong emotions. Just turn off your inner snob, treat characters like real people and try to understand them. And then maybe you'll even understand yourself better.
424) Masterpiece. One of the best experiences this art can offer. Thanks Naughty Dog
425) Simply a masterpiece. Nothing less. The low user scores reflects how well the narrative manages to connect with you and really hit you where it hurts.  I am definitely a Last of us fan, and this sequel is everything i hoped for.
426) Saw all the mixed reviews and I usually follow the people's choice as I find them honest.  This game ROCKS .   The only part I didn't like was when it ended as all games do..    Yes the story is twisted and tears your heart apart but with a story like that I won't be forgetting it like most games ..
427) The Last of us part II is current gaming at its highpoint! Best game in years! No idea why some people don't like it... The story pulled me in from start to end. The storyline is perfectly balanced and pulls your emotions in all directions. The writers and developers did a brilliant job ... creativity and art at its best. Thank you Naughty Dog and Sony Interactive Entertainment
428) I am not sure if this review would ever be read by any one . This is the one of the best game I've played , I know it can't be compared to any other game of this generation but still it had better story than Witcher and God of War , it had one of the  best story not only for a video game but for a book or a movie,  And when it combines with the best form of interactive art you get a masterpiece.,,I am writing this review while listening to True Faith - Ellie's Song (Extended) , so you call me biased
429) Don't bother to read any review. It's the best game ever made. Simple as that
430) Its simply an amazing game, it majed me feel things I had never feeled before
431) Obviously everyone is aware of the review bombing from misogynists, homophobes, and Xbox fanboys. I hope everyone felt better letting us know that you don't like girls kissing. Now that that's behind us, let's admire this absolute treasure. First of all, it's Naughty Dog. Crash, Jak, Drake, and now Ellie. We all know how this review ends. The game is at the top of it's class in everything. If you only enjoy super casual games for children like fortnite, there's Xbox for you. Bye!
432) I like it, it's a greate game, with it's faliures (there's not a perfect game). Maybe it has its holes in the plot, like every game, even books I know until now. I believe this is not enough to say they're not marvelous (games and books). But, I love it, because has the power to tell a story in a simple way, connecting with my emotions and my wife's (she don't like videogames, included TLUS, but she loved TLUS part II) And, for me (not a critic, not a gamer, just an old videogame player) this is it. If you can make a person who don't like videogames want to play it again (me too), and searche for more, you maked a gorgeus game.
433) story is really great. even better than first game.,gameplay is really fun,graphic is one of the best,sound design is incredible,music is good as first game,best game ever
434) Based in my experience playing the game it's one of the best games I ever play in my whole life. I don't understand why people hate it.
435) This game is not for everyone as you can see online, but for me everything about it just clicked and it moved me in a way I haven’t felt since the original game and maybe 2018’s red dead redemption 2, this in my opinion is now naughty dogs masterpiece and it will be very hard too top in my opinion
436) This game is as revolutionary as the first one not because follow the same idea, but because it surprises you in different ways.,,It can be frustrating, it can be sad, it can be difficult to understand why the decisions were taken during the game but then, you,realize that the game is not about heroes vs villains and more about surviving in a **** world.,,It is really a complexity game that brings a lot of human emotions in his/her blood and it is, in fact, a game that will not be unanimous for everyone that follows the whole saga. It is not only about revenge but also about redemption and consequences and, thinking about that,,I never saw a game that could bring all these kind of emotions in that way. I hope that the next-gen games could bring more of that.,,What I suggest is, play this game with open expectations, fell each emotion of the game and avoid following any kind of reviews that you saw because,you can only have your own conclusions when you are playing the game for your own. Or even better, look for reviews after you finish the game, then you will see different perspectives and compare for what you felt.,,These kinds of things that make The Last of Us Part 2 a masterpiece and a revolutionary game for the industry.,It is a 100% must-have to play.
437) When I first finished the game I didn’t like it very much, I probably would have given it a 7 or an 8. But after a lot of thought and reading other takes I have really come to love this game. I get why some hate it, but naughty dog did not make a game to pander to it’s fans, it made one that would hurt them and challenge them in the best possible way. If you played it once and didn’t like it, I highly recommend a second play through it made me love the game a lot more. Also the ending is not as bleak as you think, there is a lot that points to it being a lot more heartwarming that it appears on the surface.
438) You can cry about the story all you want, but you can’t deny this is a masterpiece. There is NO other game like this out there and that’s fact
439) Not to join the binary hyperbole of opinions on this game but I have to say that for me it was a masterpiece. I LOVE the original and I think this follows it up perfectly. Instead of shying away from the hefty dilemma of the original's finale it leans into it in full force and the writing, presentation, acting and storytelling are at the apex of where the last 10 years of game development enhancements have taken us. A story that could only be told in a game that is deeply difficult to stomach but an experience like no other... don't let the haters deprive you of experiencing one of the best games of the last decade. An engaging, shocking, uncomfortable, daring masterpiece.
440) I’m on my third playthrough and I love it. Everything about it. Literally one of the most perfect and impactful games ever made.
441) Excellent continuation from tlou 1, dunno why people rated it low, incredible graphics for a almost 8 year old PS4, amazing what naughty dog did with this hardware.
442) For the people that not understand what this game is about... Is a golden expericence....
443) It's great game. Interesting story line and best graphic. lgbt is not disclosed at all.  I don't understand why they underestimate the score because of this.
444) Honestly even though I had a problem with the story pacing at times the game was just amazing.
445) The game is good the story is not for everybody.,,How do you top one of the best games of all time? By making it bigger, badder and more focused. The Last of Us Part 2 is unsettling at times, but that gives its story and theme more impact. This is a grown-up experience through and through and a fine example of gaming as art.
446) This game is emotionally draining. You need courage to play it.  If you are planning to play it, play it exclusively. Do not play anything else till you have completed it. It consumes you. Feeds on your courage. Please do not bash it before completing it.
447) Simply put, it's a MASTERPIECE..,Naughty dog proved they are not afraid to risk and present a more lifelike scenario, where the heroes are allowed to make mistakes and pay for them.. Nothing like you haven't adored in game of thrones.. Pure next gen material!
448) What Naughty Dog has done with this game is nothing short of incredible whether you like it or not.,,Personally I am more on the "like" side. When I finished Part 1 I was left with questions and concerns just like many others. I think part of the reason why I really like Part 2 is because it addresses those concerns. Of course the game is not without it's flaws but what it does do it does masterfully in gameplay and sometimes in story.,,This game has actual consequences for character actions. The tone of the Last of Us as a series is gritty, it's real, it's dark. It's not like Uncharted. Nathan Drake is less likely to be faced with the consequences of killing a random soldier because that's not the tone of Uncharted. The Last of Us Part 2 made the end of Part 1 actually mean something, it actually held weight. The game puts you in so many uncomfortable situations on purpose. It makes you play as a character who brutally murdered one of the main characters, how is that not bold? I actually ended up liking Abby as a character through paying attention and having an open mind. The game is not about heroes and villains. Joel is not a hero. He's done bad **** We know this, it's inexcusable. The same goes for Abby. It's not cut and dry, not black and white, that's not the point. The game is supposed to make you feel uncomfortable for playing as Abby. And I did until I learned that her father was THAT doctor. Then I completely understood her motivations, doesn't mean she's right, but doesn't mean Ellie was either. If Ellie is "justified" in revenge for what happened to Joel then so is Abby for what happened to her father. It's not a new theme, it's the cycle of violence that leads to hatred. Even the sub narratives present worked well for characters. Yes of course it's convenient there's a trans side-character used for greater representation in the game but there's nothing wrong with that. He ended up becoming one of my favourite characters in the game because of how endearing he became through the gameplay sections.,,Having an open mind led me to even feeling bad for Abby by the end. The plot holes themselves are even minor. Ellie can kill a random npc aiming a gun at her but this isn't a random npc, this is someone she's chased down twice, and twice Ellie was spared by Abby. So by the end when she realized her PTSD doesn't just have to be Joel's bloodied face but instead his smile with a guitar she allows Abby to save Lev, knowing that she's bit she will die anyway. The way it deals with another beloved character having PTSD, the way at the end you as a player feel so empty, Ellie's house is also empty.,,This game is dark, it's brutal it's unforgiving but the way it was told and presented I actually loved. I loved how flashbacks are weaved in to make you feel more emotional post-Joel's death. But although that is the game does come with pacing issues. It's like Naughty Dog heard all the criticism about it's former games lack of gameplay and they said "ok how about this" and they turned it up to 11. This is ND's most ambitious game gameplay wise. Almost every encounter felt amazing even though some areas went on for too long. The game itself goes in incredible places, the updated mechanics make the gameplay feel so much better than the first game. The approach to difference situations are so much more flexible, reminding me of MGSV. Some areas can be so wide and sprawling, I greatly enjoyed exploring them for collectibles and resources. On Hard mode the combat felt somewhat balanced, depending on how i chose to fight i either ended up with too little ammo for the subsequent encounter or just enough. The game does not let up, and sometimes to a fault. Many times I thought the game would finally be over and end but it kept going. Even this new end area and enemies were really well thought out but because of the poor pacing it ended up feeling rushed.,,The scares in this game as so well thought out and unique. Just like the level design. The level and game design in this game is astounding, story completely aside. The way you make your way through the overgrown ruins of Seattle feels like it doesn't miss a beat, again to a fault. The skyscraper, the village, the aquarium, the theater, so many excellently designed areas that are used so well. So many "oh **** moments. Like the sniper part, a nice nod to the sniper section in the first game at first, you can't see who the sniper is but they're good. Eventually you start to hate them because they're so hard to kill. Until the end of the section when you realize who they are it because nothing short of an incredible moment.,Graphics and accessibility options are also top tier. Naughty Dog once again proves it is the king of cinematic storytelling and environmental design. Love it or hate it, TLOU2 is one of the most bold and audacious games ever created.
449) If you think this game is about politics you need to watch the news. Every bad review I see is from the day this game came out. Everyone played till Joel died and then left a bad review cause their feelings got hurt. What people don't understand is that Joel is not the good guy in last of us. He is a bad person who made bad decisions. Everyone says this game is a revenge plot but its not. Yes, it may have started like that but in no way does it end like one. It ends as a forgiveness story.  The story of this game is fantastic and in no way is it bad because Joel dies. I loved Joel as much as the next person but people are acting like he did nothing wrong. Joel's death was coming for him and he knew that. The gameplay of this game is also incredible. the gunplay feels so good and the way this game does scavenging and crafting is great. By no means is this game perfect and there are some parts of this game that drag on but overall this game is a 10/10 and people need to stop hating on it because their favorite character dies.
450) I loved it, graphics were amazing, gameplay was exciting, and i like the risk they took with the story, while it was a little bit off putting half game, i got really invested in the characters and the outcome, Abbys levels in my opinion were the most intense (especially the hotel), i want to see where these characters go next.
451) I've never had a game challenge my desire to move forward more and yet keep me engaged wanting more at the same time.  I found myself dreading moving forward because of the character's decisions that I know are not morally right, but I get it and move forward.  The entire game is about the revolving circle of revenge and how nobody wins when seeking revenge.,,My biggest gripe with the game was the super slow beginning, but once the big change happens in the story when you get a new POV, is when the game really picks up.,,I found myself liking the Abby character and her story, here internal moral dilemmas, and her external moral dilemmas, more than Ellie's, which I think has turned a lot of people off of the game, but refused to even give the game a chance to make you care about the new characters.,,As for people who are being transphobic because of the inclusion of a Trans Character, the story doesn't even try to ram anything down your throat, but it does give a glimpse at someone's struggle as a trans person.  But if you want to deprive yourself of this great story because you're worried about your transphobia, your really doing yourself a disservice, but you probably don't deserve this experiance.
452) This game is a terrific sequel to the first game. It masters in every aspect that a video game should have. This game is only getting hate because of homophobic people and those who cannot play this game due to it's exclusivity.
453) I have no words to describe this masterpiece seriously, a game so real, with so many nuances, it really is not for all kinds of people this game but for people who are already mature and who have a lot of empathy for people, a wonderful story with cruel reality, every detail they put into this game made it so unique and so majestic, without a doubt the best game of the year.
454) TLOU2 is an amazing experience, the visuals are insane, the gameplay feels good, the music is top notch, and about the most controversial part, the story, all I have to say is that you gotta play this game yourself, and playing it with hate and the tought that it has any sort of propaganda, will ruin your experience and take on the story .
455) I can't believe all the toxic gamers that posted horrible reviews for this game...you can tell the majority of these toxic reviews came out on the day the game was released, these morons obviously didn't have any intention of actually playing through the game nor would they have the emotional maturity to handle a complex story like this one.  The game as amazing from the gameplay to the story, which was quite honestly exceptional.  When I finished the game it took me over a week to get over it and process everything...when a game makes you cry, you know they did something right. Kudos to Naughty Dog for creating one of the greatest games ever and they should ignore the hate coming from a bunch of morons that have the emotional/intellectual maturity of a 6 year old.  After playing Ghosts of Tsushima I thought it would be hard for any game to effect me so emotionally but TLOU 2 out did even GOT so again, kudos to the developers for creating a generational game that rivals the Witcher 3.  Thanks Naughty Dog!!
456) Amazing game.,Amazing history.,Amazing gameplay.,Amazing characters.,O realy love.
457) I think what would really please the current community is making a part where Joel and Ellie are the main characters, because that's all everybody wants, a Joel and Ellie adventure. Its timeline should be right before Ellie learns how to play guitar, When Joel plays the Future Days song and tells her that; I believe, I believe cause I can see, Our future days, Days of you and me. That's why this part should be called Future Days and it should start from there and end at the death of Joel, And maybe they should jump to the fight scene between Ellie and Aby (the one at the end). And maybe they should give an option to kill Aby this time and see which players will choose revenge for Joel, And which will forgive Aby and let her go just like she did with them. Anyways its just a thought, I hope Naughty Dog sees this and considers at least thinking about a part called Future Days.,This is my Gmail address in case anyone would like to contact me: Irisiraq @ gmail . com
458) Like almost everyone else, I’m a huge fan of the first game. I’m also a huge fan of Part 2 and I hope there somehow ends up being a Part 3. TLOU2 is incredible on all counts. It’s fun to play; it’s intense, dark, brutal and beautiful. The graphics and gameplay are evermore improved on the first game. The music is intense and I’ve found myself listening to the soundtrack on repeat which really allows me to appreciate it even more. This story puts you through the emotional ringer, but the ride getting there is intense and scary as hell. I highly recommend this game if you go into it with an open mind and just be part of the experience.
459) This game is a masterpiece, nice graphic, story and characther. Even though the ending of the scene is not very satisfying, the gameplay is very satisfying and interesting, telling the meaning of revenge and regret that never ends. And as a result of that we lose the people we love.
460) I love it so far the graphics are awesome and gameplay is decent and fun to play.
461) The Last of Us — Part II is the most profoundly human, viscerally violent, lachrymose game I have ever played. It is tied together with beautiful graphics, immersive gameplay, and a stellar soundtrack. In my life, few games have caused me to reflect so deeply on the motivations of characters, and displayed such realism depicting their deaths. It is as controversial as it is beloved, but I will express why, in my opinion, this game is so noteworthy.,While The Last of Us struggled somewhat with lackluster gameplay, it’s sequel corrects all the original’s shortcomings. While some gameplay aspects remain, such as the scavenging and required stealth, many things have been adjusted and tweaked for a better overall experience. Combat is more fluid and responsive, with breathtaking animation for all the characters that adds to the immersion. A few mechanics have been added, including the ability to prone. This new ability allows you to hide under gaps in buildings and military trucks, amongst other things. Another new addition is a dedicated doge button. When fully mastered, players can dodge and counter an enemy’s attack, cause devastating blows which add a sense of desperation to each attack. The most notable tweak, however, is the shooting mechanic. Shooting now feels more refined, and hit and kill indicators have been added. As a whole, where the gameplay felt repetitive in the original, it now feels more fully realized, refined, and mature; it’s been polished with a shiny, new veneer.,Moving on, what would this game be without a good narrative? As always, Naughty Dog displays their masterful story telling. Once again, you’re introduced to Ellie, who is now older and more mature. In contrast to the first game, you now play as her through the majority of the game. She has settled into a semi-idealistic lifestyle in Jackson. Though she retains some of her iconic cheerful, quirky banter, you find that she’s grown into a quieter, more reserved adult (perhaps from her emotional traumas). Halfway through the game, you learn it is a story told in parallels between Ellie and her counterpart, Abby.,Abby is similar to Ellie in almost all regards. Like Ellie, she is a survivor hellbent on revenge. Robbed of someone once close to her, she would sacrifice anything to avenge their murder, and she does. It is this act of revenge that propels the story onwards; and brings Ellie to her hometown of Seattle, Washington. Here, the two eventually battle one another. Because of their similarities, their fight is extremely painful to watch — and even more painful to play through.,Sadly, both characters have wonderful character traits; even sadder, they both have abysmal flaws. Both characters are extremely loyal to their loved ones to a fault — literally, as both go to great lengths,to avenge the murders of their respective loved ones. Ellie’s biggest flaw stems from the guilt of being “saved” by Joel. Her counterpart’s stems from the devastation of losing loved ones. Throughout the game, countless lives are lost in seemingly pointless deaths. The dark reality of these deaths is that they’re caused by the shared blind loyalty both characters have. It is simultaneously their greatest strength and their greatest flaw. It is, as established in the previous game, the same corrupt love that propelled Joel’s selfish decision to save Ellie (blinding him to all the countless lives that would be lost). Overall, it’s story carefully tackles heavy themes of revenge, hatred, and the intoxicatingly self-destructive nature of violence. In conclusion, this is, arguably, the most thought-provoking game ever made. With new polished gameplay mechanics, it feels like the older brother to its predecessor. Its story constantly challenges its player to question motives, to abhor the violence its player is committing, and to challenge the desensitized nature of violence in video games. It is a game that stays with you long after you finish it, and it has enough replay value for you to play multiple times. In conclusion, this game is a masterpiece chalk full of Naughty Dog’s artistry and attention to detail both in fidelity and moral ambiguity. It’s story is as tragic as it is brutal, and it is an immaculate vision executed with near perfection; a truly worthy sequel.
462) The game is still the same way, but much improved. But the best thing is the story, it is more human, deep into the thoughts of each player and above all for us to feel the consequences for what we do, how easy our lives are.
463) Guys the game is not the happy story it’s a serious story. And to understand the final you need to now the moral and don’t be like. Hahaha they killed him. You need to understand what is going out there. The most important you need to play the first part before to understand what is going on.
464) This game is a **** masterpiece. Brutal gameplay, good storytelling,good writing,characters,best graphics I have seen for years,Gustavo Santaolalla did his job awesome again and again but some parts of the story are rushing.After all what can ı say.Thanks ND a lot :) 98/100
465) This game has emotionally destroyed me and made me feel like I wanted to die in multiple ocassions, its a ride full of pain and self destruction. 10 out of 10 really recommend it
466) This game got audible reactions from me while in gameplay and in cutscene. It’s rare for that to happen, and if I can connect to characters in such a short amount of time, that shows good writing.
467) Amazing. With my first playthrough i went through every possible emotion i can think of and after finishing it I wasnt sure if I ever wanna play it again. Rn im doing my third playthrough, getting ready for permadeath and grounded rounds too. This game ruined and saved me at the same time. It is a masterpiece and i really really hope we will get third part thats gonna be equally amazing like first two. Ellie and Abby deserve to have their happy ending.
468) I couldn’t expect more the story is unique it is subjective but i love it life is not like a Disney / Pixar movie and this is what i was expecting going into it. The mechanics are superb, the permadeath ootion is spectacular and makes it even more interesting to playthrough. Thank you Naughty Dog i really love this masterpiece.
469) Being a huge fan of the first game I was a bit nervous going into this game after some of the poor reviews but I’m glad I didn’t listen to them. I thought the game was a masterpiece; story, gameplay and graphics were outstanding.
470) The story was incredibly gripping and emotional. The gameplay was better than the first. A classic.
471) I have a reason to give it a 5-star review well, I know that some people are just here to defend de game or hate on it and I get it, Im just here to tell MY opinion on the game. I bought this game when it came out and played and after I finished the game I realised that yeah naughty dog did put us in tears but if you see they fitted everything perfectly to make us cry and feel what the characters in game felt, naughty dog put us in 2 shoes Ellie's and Abby's they made us look at the same challenge but from different points of view and if you see not every video game does that right? Naughty dog made us HATE Abby at first but at least have some little mercy after making us play as her. Not only Abby if not our favorite main character Ellie they tried to make her look like a bad guy as well, they made us look at 3 different perspectives of Ellie and Abby which are 1 persona, 2 persona, 3 persona. I really liked that they made me feel like I was in a video game as the characters and for me its a really great accomplishment in video game history.
472) Did anyone realize the irony? The first game is about Love. Part 2 about Hate. People love the first one and so many hate the second. Yes, you can be critical with the story or the gameplay. But giving it such bad reviews is absolutely none sense.,I find it brilliant, entertaining, emotional, depressing, hurtful and especially different. This game is not about revenge and it’s moral message. It’s about redemption and the development of Ellie as a character after what happened in the first one. The story really adds up. Just play it with a non-biased open mind and you will see. There are so many messages provided that you probably don’t get them when playing it the first time (you might feel some of them though). The graphics are outstanding and rich in every detail. Each scene is well chosen and the sound gives the rest for a perfect atmosphere. It is really joy to play!! I also appreciate the incredible soundtrack with the emotional reference to the first one. It’s a dark emotion though. But life in the TLOU world is that way. Which makes it even more realistic. Only criticism here is that it’s a bit too long and the AI could be smarter.,If you love the previous Naughty Dog games with its movie storyline gameplay you definitely should play this one too. If you are emotionally unstable and seek for open world or happy fun shooters, this one is probably not for you.,Yes, the story could be different, giving it the chance to be like most the other games out there. But let me quote Joel: “I know you wish things were different. I wish things were different. But they ain’t!”,Enjoy the ride!
473) This game masters all the things than you can find in the video games world, its a masterpiece.,The game touch in points than you never will imagine.,If you dont play this game yet you odnt know what are you losing.
474) I do understand the complexity and deepness of the emotions that naughty dog wanted to create trough this game. Here we have the future of gaming guys. Games can be better than movies to communicate feelings and this game is the perfect proof. Not to mention the quality of every other aspect gaming related.
475) I successfully avoided all spoilers and got to play the game with an open mind. Such a gorgeous game with beautiful visuals and realistic, complex characters. This game made me feel so much. It's got a different vibe from the first game, but I like that the developers didn't go the easy, fan-service route. Game-play was improved upon and I love how there are also so many accessibility options for people who might need them. The game did feel surprisingly long, compared to the first installation, but as a huge fan of the previous game, I really didn't mind. I took my sweet time with it, even stopping to play around with photo mode and collecting everything i can - even with my extremely slow pace, it took me just around 34 hours to complete. Most open world games have taken me many times as much time to complete, so as a linear game, the Last of Us Part 2 felt quite nice to me personally.
476) It was a unique experıence for me. No game has ever given me this experience before...
477) The Last of Us Part 2 is a masterpiece. I hated that Joel died, but with what he did at the hospital. Especially with Abby, it makes sense why he did die. The world is gorgeous as hell. The character relationships (like Joel and Ellie, Ellie and Dina and Abby and Lev) are fantastic. The infected is still incredible like the Rat King is INSANE!! The new enemy types are amazing. I love the Scar brutes, the guard dogs. I love that Ellie is much more faster and agile than Joel in TLOU Part 1. The combat is brutsl and I love it. Even though people hate Abby for what she did to Joel, I love her character and her story
478) For those whose heart is filled with love and compassion, this game is a sweet journey. But for those typical bigots, who prone to hate than love, always one-way thinking and don't bother to put in someone else’s shoes, this game is a disaster. So please haters, leave TLOU2 alone.
479) One of the best game i ever played. The storyline it’s beautifull. Thanks NaughtyDog for this.
480) Perfect gameplay, engaging story, all the characters have emotional depth and richness of details, this was one of the few games that really made me cry, and more than once, the graphics are trully beautiful, the game is long, it was worth the price paid!!
481) Best game I ever played! A worthy sequel! A true masterpiece! A must play! Don't listen to anyone telling you that the game is bad because it isn't. Do yourself a favor and buy the game! You won't regret it.
482) Masterclass in story telling, gameplay, art direction and motion capture/voice acting.
483) THIS GAME  IS FK CRAZY , the detail level , the graphics , the gameplay. All of this game is really insane
484) Elicits strong emotional responses from its excellent storytelling and scenes.,Gameplay is varied and lengthy. Combat is refined, difficulty tuning is AMAZING and the accessibility of many aspects is really awesome.,,My only complaint possible could be a smoother breaking up of story vs. cutscene, as there were some lengthy sections without a cutscene, but it's a minor complaint.
485) This game was breathtaking from beginning to end. Not just the best game of the year, but one of the best ever. Part movie, part game, part magic. The story is so beautifully told and can’t be done without offering both perspectives, which is done with such a unique and special approach. The combat and gameplay in general is so smooth and seamless compared to the last game. The music is beautiful, the scenery and graphics are stunning. This is the kind of game that stays with you long after you’re done. My husband enjoyed watching me play it like a movie, and we found ourselves discussing various topics that this beautiful games makes you think about while you’re playing it...the meaning of life, what it means to be human, revenge, love, forgiveness, understanding, etc. I can’t remember the last time a game made me really think. And feel every spectrum of emotions while playing it. I felt immensely satisfied at the end, like I had just been on the adventure of a lifetime that changed the way I looked at the world a little bit. If you’re looking for a simple shooter that’s devoid of heart or meaning, then this isn’t the game for you. If what you want is a moving, breathtaking, bittersweet, complex, deep, completely immersive experience, then this is a winner.
486) This game is a must play in this life! An emotional journey that got me glued to my TV for hours at a time. I recommend this game to everyone who played the first game.
487) amazing game loved every minute and on my 5th playthrough! Thank you for an amazing game naughty dog!
488) I will not spoil any of the story but WOW the story is really great. The game-play is really good as well.,the environment is outstanding. I would recommend you buy this game if you loved the first one.
489) I thought this game was an absolute masterpiece. Generation defining graphics, mostly smooth controls, and a complex, emotional story. I’m bummed out to read that they don’t plan to offer any dlc.
490) Spoiler alert Joel dies and the mass has review bombed this game It’s not made to be fun but made to be remembered and you will remember it . Apex of ps4 graphics and beautiful gameplay . You can’t skip this game
491) I never felt this emotionally invested in a game before! Fantastic story, art and gameplay.  One of my favourite games of all time!
492) This game is so great And Is so Iconic Already.This game is the game of the year.
493) Honestly, the story is GREATE even if we don't like it, this is life guys, we don't always see happy endings in real life. so please grow the fck up.,,Everything about this game is amazing.
494) I had to register and make my first review. This is the best experience I´ve had related to video games. Everything is taken to an unexpected level. The game play is amazing, graphics are beautiful and the story is harsh and heavy. If there ever was a game destined to get a 10, this is the one.
495) The story is fantastic. Gameplay is amazing, never seen before. I don't understand the hate on this game. I only ask myself; those people really played the game?
496) **** happens. Sometimes people you love die and oftentimes it's in the most inglorious ways. Sometimes you fall off some random ladder or get stabbed by some random mook you don't even know. This game is REAL. Revenge is cliche, but guess what? That **** happens in life and no matter how cliche it is it doesn't stop happening. "Revenge is bad". People say that's an obvious point, but apparently it's not because it happens every damn day. How long has it been since someone flipped you the bird while you're driving down the road, a week? Is that cliche? **** yes but it still happens. So the least you can do is ask why it happens over and over day after day and on every damn reddit I've seen in the past week.,,What we can gain from games isn't a more sophisticated palette or recognition of our tirelessly exercised skill. We gain experience which influences how we behave and thought for how we can better live our lives. You don't get that from what you want to see. So quit your whining and LOOK for what you can gain from this experience.
497) The saddest thing that you can get in 2020. And that is a big achievement!,Must.
498) I really don't give a crap about internet emo's demand to craft a game based on their preference,,This can be the best game of the generation, animation, physics, graphic, and gore are top notch.  You will never feel a gun shot & arrow kill so impactful in any game.  story is very interesting, as long as you aren't one of those emo tards who act like Joel is their biologic father.
499) I played the game without knowing the controversy and I'm happy I did. I approached the game with an open mind and it is worth it. The game is brilliant and bold. The people that didn't like the game didn't understand the message or didn't give it a straight shot, like for example if you didn't let game explain Abby's side it's and say her story is boring and you can;t relate to her, then you clearly didn't understand the message. The story is about both Abby and Ellie had their motivation to act as they did just like in any war there is not a good or bad side the same thing is here. If you would approach the game with an open mind you will understand the meaning of it.
500) I should say it is the best game I have ever played in my life so far. Hopefully, part III will transcend this and being my next most favourite one. Although the gameplay has a lot of fun, but I think I love the story most. The tension of the plot and dramatic collision are way much refined than most renowned movies. Anyway, no movies are able to offer such a luxury experience of 5-hour's beautifully produced CG scenes. Forget about those childish haters, appreciate Naughty Dog for a masterpiece which gonna change my life!
501) Masterpiece! Improves TLOU1 in every single way. Superb combat, incredibly immersive, with master grade visuals and audio and best storytelling in gaming ever.
502) Even though The Last of Us Part II relishes in making players uncomfortable and reminding them characters can lose everything at a moment’s notice, those bleak traits are part of the game’s appeal even if the charm’s a morbid one.
503) This is an amazing story wrapped in a video game. For those of us who laud games as pieces of literature, this game is a must. I’m heartened to see that the majority of user reviews are positive. When we look back, say 10 years from now, many will begrudgingly admit that this game is a masterpiece.
504) Many people who played this game wanna be a writer of this game.If u are the someone feels like this, be writer and write your own story. This game story is good as its just being.
505) Gaming Canon right here ladies and gentlemen. Anticipation was high and the wait loooong, but this is how it's done! Thank you for the hard work to everyone who made this happen
506) I don't think there's a game like the Last of Us Part 2 which has divided the people like it did. Personally I had a great time with this game, the game isn't perfect, it does have it's flaws and some small changes could've made this game a perfect masterpiece but for what it was when it was released it didn't deserve the review bombing, hell no game deserves review bombing. Last of Us Part 2 is a technical masterpiece, but as I have noticed, the story isn't everyone's cup of tea which is totally fine but personally I liked the story and at the end of the day if you have a good time with even a bad game then it doesn't matter what someone on the Internet thinks about it. In conclusion I can only say, please form a opinion over a piece of media after you've consumed it yourself first. To end my review I'm going to write quote from Nathan Zed's video - "The first game had hope on the surface but hope underneath and the second game has misery on the surface but hope underneath"
507) The story is about revenge and it’s extremely dark. Not as good as the first one, but better gameplay IMO. In you don’t like it then it’s fine. Naughty Dog took a shot and worked for some and not all
508) A realistic masterpiece represented in a virtual world. The world portrayed in the game is brutal but I don't think the real world is better than it. Look at these bunches of haters then you will understand my words. I have learned to forgive, love, and cherish after the beautiful 20 hours’ journey. No other games or movies have ever done this to me.
509) Amazing! The best Series I have ever played! Naughty dog still on point with a genius story telling.
510) It's such a fantastic game in terms of gameplay, story, and everything else. It's the greatest game of all time.
511) Ignore the haters who just come across as bratty kids who haven't got the fairytale story they desperately wanted.,I've been an avid gamer for for over 25 years and this is the boldest storyline in a game I've ever played. I got lost in its world and ate up every bit of situational storytelling.,A game that brings such strong emotions out, positive or negative, is surely rare thing and what gaming is all about.... Not just playing what's gets churned out year after year with remasters and standard sequel cash ins. PLAY THIS GAME! F**K THE NECKBEARDS! CELEBRATE BRAVE DECISIONS!
512) Masterpiece. Can't unterstand any other opinion tbh. It ist just wonderful, deep, nice game play.
513) Unbelievable game. I just finished my 2nd play through and am amazed with TLOU2.
514) One of the best ps4 games I've ever played. Worth spent money and time. Recommendation- must play by everyone.
515) Whether you like this game or not is going to be completely subjective. Youre going to have to play it for yourself and see how it hits you. For me, it got me to feel so many things. I really thought I was going to hate the game. SPOILERS When you get to play as Abby, the game feels unbearably long, because of the tension in the theater you just left. All I could think of was getting back there to figure out what the hell happens. Plus you hate Abby.  When they tried to get me to feel for her i wasnt biting. I did not care about her, or her past, or her relationships. She killed Joel. But I thank God they did draw it out, because that gave me the time I needed to humanize and forgive Abby. They got me so late in Abby's story. When I saw what she went through to help those Scars, I didnt see a villian anymore. I saw an actual person with a good heart. When her friend scolds her and tells her shes not a good person and Abby breaks down because she can't seem to forgive herself either. She wasnt happy with what she did but I think she was looking for peace just like Ellie was trying to do when she went back for Abby. The game made me go from this completely one-sided blind hatred, to compassion and wanting nothing but the best for her. I WRESTLED WITH MYSELF pushing the attack buttons on the final scene. That was unlike anything I have ever experienced, and though the pacing mightve been screwy to some, I could not imagine any other way to do it. The way it moved me up and down gets a Fat 10 outta 10. Gameplay super intense and fun too but I just wanted to talk about the story lol.
516) An absolute masterpiece in every form. Beautifully written, morally introspective, incredibly dark and brutal, yet extremely warm. The Last of Us Part II will go down as one of the greatest video games ever.
517) I really love the game. At first you think "what is going on?" but then you start understanding everything. It has a LOT of amazing details from the story. Many people say its a horrible game because they are Disney lovers and they like the stories that have sad moments but always finish with everyone singing, but in this game this doesn't happen.
518) Graphics are insane. The plot is very controversial, but I really like it.,In the end of TLOU1, the emotion that I felt in the moment where so mixed about what Joel did, and this part 2 touch exactly on this. There is aways more the 1 side in the same history, and show us that is amazing!
519) This game is amazing. In combination with the first Last of Us game, it was one of the most captivating stories I've ever played, read, or watched. Can't wait for the third one. If you beligerant t**ds ruined that for me with your review bombing I'll never forgive you. P.S. To anyone who has issues with the flat chested buff girl, or the reality of Ellie being messed up in the head after her traumatic journey, or Joel turning into an old man, or any of the diverse characters that make you pissy for some reason, I just want to say welcome to reality. And  also, welcome to the West Coast. People be themselves out here.
520) This is easily one of the best games I’ve ever played. I watch a lot of TV and movies, read a lot of books and play a lot of games, and this wasn’t just one of the best stories I’ve ever experienced in a game, it was one of the best stories I’ve experienced period. This story and it’s characters connected with me on a level that few things I’ve ever watched, played, or read have done. The gameplay is fun and challenging and offers many different approaches to each situation you encounter. I couldn’t recommend this game more. If you’re a fan of The Last of Us and it’s characters you will love Part 2. And if you haven’t played the first game, get out of here and go play it now!
521) The last of us charter II is without doubt the best game I have ever played.
522) perfect game that simple excellent story, I liked it a lot its gameplay is fabulous I loved it
523) The ending of the last of us 2 is simply perfect in all its forms manages to involve you in a crazy way to keep everything hidden until the end and then tell you things as they really are.  Too bad that people do not understand and do not want to understand what Neil drukmann tried to do and something new in the narrative and who did not understand it is not his fault but just needs time, which then may not like but honestly I think  that I am the most beautiful final ever the motivations of the characters who are alive have their own idea and ideologies and if you do not reflect yourself and why you do not live there in that world it is difficult to understand what to do in such a situation but  a choice is a choice and no one can know which is the best choice for this it is better to live with it and have no regrets.  Eventually ellie forgave Joel and hers was not a journey of vengeance but of forgiveness.  In a word, a masterpiece.    Sorry for my inglish I am Italian
524) I'm giving this game a 10 because it is pure masterpiece.I know story may trigger some narrow minded haters that only see this game in "Joel dead game bad" way but story is much much deeper than that.In fact story is unique because game is representing us both points of view, you have to understand that Abby was seeking for revenge because of her's father death and so would you in her situation.Ending was also fantastic and left me speechless, Ellie let Abby alive because she learned how similar Abby and Joel were.,,This was the most beautiful game I ever played on ps4 with facial expressions and voice acting being pure masterpiece.,,Overall this game is really an awesome journey and very enjoyable to play
525) I absolutely loved the way the game story plays out. One of the best games I ever played!
526) i think this game is really good the only thing i don't like about it is that joel died donst really good game
527) Absolute masterpiece, anyone rating it at around a zero and absolutely hating on this game is an idiot. Neil D. Perfectly illustrated the character development and story. If you don’t have the mental to look deeper beyond the surface than I understand why you’d rate this game below its worth. There are award winning movies that don’t compare to this deep and rich  of a story game. I guess some of these bad reviewers are just anti SJW people even the game has nothing to do with SJW? If you couldn’t tell Ellie was gonna be gay in the first game then you really must lack brain cells. Im sorry some of you had a hard on for virtual character and if she somehow became real she wouldn’t be into you now because she’s gay. Pretty sure she wouldn’t be attracted to incels in the first place bro. Also, I loved the ending. It does make sense if you look deeper into it. Ellie found her peace and even though it’s not the peace you were looking for, doesn’t make it a bad ending. If I can express this enough, PLAY THIS GAME. Take your time and think about the story in a richer sense as you play and you’ll appreciate it. I couldn’t have asked for a better second part. I cannot wait to see what Naughty Dog and Neil. D have in store in the future.
528) I'll split my review on technical parts and will write some thoughts on story. Will avoid any spoilers and will try to be objective.,Technically game is just perfect, amid couple bugs and low fps in heavy scenes it is finished and polished AAA product, with best graphics and animations among all games in 2020.,There are some downsides in stealth part of the game, making stealth centred game offering 3-4 stealth mechanics and some of them are opening after 1/3 of the game.,Gameplay is fantastic, extending mechanics from first part with some new options and perfecting animations, new enemies, ai that make you hate people more than infected species. Design of the surrounding and new experience of vertical levels just awesome, every location gave its own story that is perfectly described by notes that you can find while exploring. In some parts of the game tension and stressful situations are dominating and you're waiting till moment when you can just relax and have a bit of exploration, I found myself being tired of such big amount of tension and pressure but it is fully justified by storyline and from this point I'll switch my review on it.,,In general plot looks like a logical completion of characters from the first part, even new characters seems to provide some additional perspective on things that have been done by protagonists from first instalment, downside of this part is that some storylines of new characters seems to be rushed and have lack of motivation behind them. But we need to keep in mind that this story is about people we already know surrounded by post pandemic world, cruel and brutal world where survival is on the first place, and as any survival in such world there definitely would be victims of the decisions that are done by people, some of them are motivated and some are done in anger or fear. In these story we can feel all the results of such doings. But not in slick manner, opposite of it, deep and rooted in emotions, in full palette of them. You can experience fathers love, resentment to be deceived, struggle from PTSD and self hate, and rage blindness (keep in mind that main symbol of the game is moth that flies blindly on the light that will burn it). Storyline have plenty of layers and symbolism what is very rare in such AAA projects, I can understand reasons of such hate and misunderstanding of gamers community, but we need to treat games like piece of art that is given for us to experience emotions (not always good ones), and not just like entertainment for 20-30 hours. In terms of how story is presented and aligned in gameplay is just great, to have a complete picture you need at least two walkthroughs. Having so mush details and things that gives you chills is fantastic. But second part of the story is blurred by events before it, you have a feeling like you need to pass it as quickly as possible to finally get know what will happen next, and you don't have time to explore world, read notes and develop character skills more precisely. Time that is allocated to familiarize with new characters also doesn't work in its purpose. But as I've written above this story is about characters we all know, that are developed and grown on us during first game and are deeply opened up during second part.,,Gameplay 8/10,Graphics 10/10,Optimisation 9/10,Design 10/10,Story 9/10,Emotions 20/10,Overall 10/10
529) the game is good as  **** it´s just people who saw spoilers before the time
530) Still trying to process what happened. Ground-breaking experience and one of the most intense videogames i have ever played.
531) The Last Of Us Part II is hands-down the greatest video game I've had the pleasure of playing, the world building is awesome and incredibly detailed, the combat is absolutely brutal and you feel every single blow as you exact your bloody and furious revenge.,,This game made me feel things I didn't think it was possible to get from a video game. A truly staggering achievement of moral complexity.
532) After completion I can only say: "Masterpiece".,Graphics, gameplay, music, climax and last, but not least - story. Everything is perfect. I've had goosebumps several times.
533) The Last of Us II is a phenomenal artistic achievement. It is one of the most profound interactive narrative experiences ever created and a testament to the power of games to evoke empathy in the player. This game will be talked about as a landmark of gaming that pushed the medium forward.
534) I dont understand the hate at all.. I loved the journey and the gameplay was stellar!,,Once again the story telling and emotions felt in a game are second to none by naughty dog. Well done and cant wait to see this game blossom as time goes on
535) This game is a freaking Masterpiece. PS: Everyone who still asks like "Team Abby or team Ellie?" did not understand the true meaning of the game...
536) One of the best games out there, a must play game. The story has some drawbacks, because its a harsh one, but that's what a story in this devastating world should be. At first I din't like the switching of roles, but when the final mission came I was more than happy to be able to feel the story from the both sides. Gameplay is flawless, its more than what I was hoping for. Graphics are exactly what you could expect from a naughty dog game. Great details. Sound is beyond everything you have ever heard in a game. A true masterpiece. Thank you, Naughty Dog!
537) I didn't even know about this hamfisted controversy after finishing the game. This is genuinely sad and embarrasing and clearly shows how an audience does not understand how art works an/ or is made.,,The initial hate about Ellie being Lesbian? C'mon, as if nobody played the DLC of the first game. There is a LOGICAL PROGRESSION here, that she would end up meeting another lesbian character eventually. Especially now that she got back into a society.,,"That thing that happens to Joel in the first few hours of the game?" Seriously? That's why most people are pissed off about this game? Joel did a lot of horrible things in the first game, killed a lot of people and therefore got himself a ton of enemies. Not to mention the big and maybe WRONG decision he made at the end of the first game. Again, there is a LOGICAL PROGRESSION what a writer would do with him in a sequel. I just wanna know how all these snobby cellar-living critics would have written the story instead. **** off, you clearly don't know what you are talking about, let alone know how reason and storrytelling works.
538) The best game playied of my life with the best history. The game is a challenge and a lesson for many people of questionable morals.
539) DO NOT PLAY IN ONE SITTING.,I understand after playing this why people are upset. Completely understand. Some advertising trickery bait and switch and new characters to play as.,BUT! The story is a masterpiece. It’s told in such a new way that it really knocks it out of the park to build this world. Absolutely loved the story and the gameplay and detail is an eleven out of ten, but I highly recommend taking a break in between the parts where you play as other characters. Take a day to digest what just happened in the story. Then go ahead. If you play in one sitting it will ruin this. Break it up. Keep an open mind and enjoy the narrative.
540) WARNING, this review contains nothing but compliments,Im not a gamer, GTA, COD, Fifa, bores me. I dont even own a PS I borrowed my sons, I loved the original and i loved the sequel even more, right to the final credits.,Having heard from a guy in work that it hadn't be well received I thought id take a look after completing the game last night.....it really didn't go down well for some of you did it !,If you read this Neil Drukman (unlikely I know) Thankyou it was outstanding, all of it, gameplay, story , graphics, audio. Surpassed all expectations my only complaint is it came to an end.
541) Tlou1 is best game ever but Tlou2 is second best game ever. I hope its gonna be game of the year. You can try to change my mind. :D
542) I finished this game 2 times so far. I find it super dark, scary, violent, which is not rare for games, but also the game is not restful, the story has unexpected turns, and most of all, it didn’t let me be neutral towards characters’ actions. And that makes the game different.,,Every character in the game does things which seem to be right on the one hand, and they are absolutely destructive on another. That’s why I don’t want to call them good or bad, however, I think Ellie is the only character who will be able to forget what had happened and live a happy life following her own decisions.,,Joel. By taking away Ellie from the hospital Joel broke her dream to help Fireflies in a vaccine invention and destroyed the only hope to save humanity. Even if he was not able to let her die as Ellie reminded Joel’s daughter, Ellie was a different person with different intentions and she couldn’t and didn’t want to be a replacement. It caused a conflict between them. Joel looked like a caring farther and his death was difficult to watch. At the same time after it happened in the very beginning, it became a fact to accept somehow. And then I full of regrets continued playing full of regrets.,,Abby. Playing Abby’s part was so exhausting, it felt like runaround. Intentions and actions of this character seem incompatible through the whole game. And this is the most rare thing in games, I’ve never met such plot turns in other games, main characters often do “what they have to do” or “what gamers would approve”. But with Abby it’s like watching (and playing) when somebody is doing stupid actions.,,She devoted her life to revenge of her farther’s death, and again, it couldn’t return him back to her. And  taking her loss this intention is clear. She was a member WLF. The organisation doesn’t leave many chances to strangers and its own members to go their own way, especially when this way was not beneficial to WLF. After getting back to WLF from Jackson, after taking revenge for her farther, the first thing that Abby did, she left the organisation without permission before a big fight against WLF rival in order to meet her friend who had doubts in WLF mission. It felt like Abby didn’t want to stick to WLF any more, like all the duties she started taking unwillingly.,,After the first part, Ellie’s part, exactly before a denouement, the game is being cut short and Abby’s part has been started. It felt like unexpected nuisance a few steps before the sweet relief.,,After escaping from Seattle, Abby is looking for Fireflies. She didn’t notice that due to pandemic the world didn’t leave so many choices to a single person. People rolled back to previous forms of relationships and the most popular way to have and to mine food and resource is when one human is being enslaved by another. She got into Rattlers' slavery, however, WLF or Seraphits were not far from that.,,Ellie. It is amazing how responsible Ellie is. She knows what she wants and at the same time she makes her friends responsible making up something together. Playing her part was so elating, it felt like doing right thing, from the beginning till the very end. In the last fight with Abby, in the last scene, Ellie realises that taking revenge for Joel wouldn’t return him back and she forgiving Abby.
543) Absolute perfection. The best video game I've ever played, with a story that floored me from start to finish. I've played through it twice and gotten the platinum trophy on it, and I can't recommend it enough. The combat is amazing and will forever change how I look at future video games. A must-buy for fans of the original.
544) Everyone should play this game, perfection! Don't listen to the haters, nothing else like it
545) Technically and narratively ambitious. An outstanding achievement in single player game design.
546) 8 points for the game itself and 2 bonus points to fix the userscore which have been review bombed.,I think that the majority of negative reviews have been done by people who won't understand that a 19 year old female adult is not a 14 year girl.,,Yes indeed these games contain a coming of age story  arc that unfolds when you play the original game and part 2 directly afterwards.,,This is one of the greatest games in its generation. Candidate for a PS5 remaster.,,1. Outstanding graphics with so much details in animation and motion capturing which is done on that level by very few studios,,2. Intense action and gunfights,,3. Great story with remarkable characters
547) Your heart can either take it.. Or you can't take it.  This game captivated me to the max!
548) Great story. Plays long. Thrilling. Ready for the third. Probably will be on brain chips before that happens.
549) Best game ever!!! I would give it 9 but I give 10.,It already nets gen. 2020 goty.
550) I lived this game i general, The graphic and soundtrack are The best part, i wish the history was diferent, only in the end.
551) I loved it have no problem with it at all cause I’m not like half these people immature crying over something meant for entertainment y’all tried to spoil the game before it even came out so there were changes I never went into the game knowing what to expect I went in to have fun and that’s what I did I don’t care that Abby killed Joel it’s called vengeance same if someone shot your dad right now you would be seeking vengeance Ellie had every right to be upset yes but this whole nonsense game was bad cause you killed Joel I must send you death threats come on now grow up that’s more immature then ever I loved and keep being surprised every time this great development team makes a new game if it’s uncharted if it’s last of us I just love the games they did great work now y’all immature people are sending death threats making clothing with f naughty dog so immature y’all seem to not be grown up at all taking things like people would do in middle school even high school to a new level chill out y’all it’s a game don’t like it shut up and move on stop ruining it for those who do actually care and are more mature to not cry over dumb stuff. Ps naughty dog if you are reading this I’m sincerely sorry your going through all of this you guys are awesome I swear no lie you all don’t deserve any of what’s going on I see you made a great game with twist that I enjoyed I will say last of us 1 I loved but 2 was a lot better personally cause of controls I’m handicapped have one hand to be able to map the buttons to suit me because of my one hand helped out a lot thank you so much I wish I could thank your team in person for great all around job Ellie was awesome Abby was awesome those too just was great I can’t remember a more heart warming moment I can share in a video game that isn’t in the call of duty story mode vengeance is a real thing and I’d rather see vengeance take place then Ellie or Abby just shooting themselves because they can’t live without there father I was unaware in the first game I killed abbys dad at the end I was shocked right away I could see why she wanted vengeance you guys did incredible work love all your support cast great work keep positive screw negative comments you just need positive even if it’s only one positive which I know it’s not only one I’m just thinking of a Lance Armstrong saying if everyone is booing at you that one cheer is louder then ever or something like that sorry I forgot how it’s said to be honest anyways love your game so much. and no for anyone thinking I’m a bot I’m not at all a bot I’m a disabled 25 year old in California so ya if I am telling you a little about me then no I’m not a bot and y’all really need to stop assuming stuff like that it’s rude and mean
552) Don't listen to the homophobes or nerds who are afraid of women. This game is fantastic. Leaves you on edge all the way through, there are no winner's.
553) All I’m going to say is ignore the trolls, the original Last of Us was one of the best games I’ve ever played and I’m happy to say that The Last of Us Part 2 is just as good. It expands on the gameplay and makes some bold, controversial but justified choices in the story and I think that it is all the better for them. Playing this game has been an amazing experience that I will think about for a long time.
554) I think this is one of the best games of the year.,Thats all I have to say because I only think is perfect and I respect other ones opinion.
555) This was the most emotional game I played ever. The most beautiful, mature, realistic and controversial Thanks naughty dog for this experience!
556) Though it broke my heart, by the end of the game I understand that Abby queen did what she had to. Haters are denying themselves a fantastic experience.
557) Naughty dog did the impossible and surpassed the first TLOU in everything, the game of the generation.
558) This game is extremely good, I believe that you need to understand the story in order to like it. I started off on my first play through and i hated the story. But when I played it again I really took the time to understand and focus on how the story builds. I believe that everyone should play this game even though it has a lot of negative reviews it is still worth being played. The gameplay is extremely good and so is the story.
559) I played this game right after Part I, both for the first time, and I don't even know how to express myself, how to explain what I felt. It was a jawdroping experience and I never felt so much with a game, movie, series, book or anything. I felt tenderness, felt warm, love, heartbreak, sadness, I felt sick, bitter, angry, anxious, I feared for what the game had to me and even though I was expecting everything, I wasn’t ready for any of it. A terrible experience that made my heart race, almost exploding. Yet, I understood all the sides that I didn’t (out of pure arrogance) want to and still my feelings were torn apart… I was completely contempted with it all after that. It all sits right with me. Everything is pure coincidence and it makes sense. Everyone had their issues and no one was truly bad or good, still we could see who had the worst morals and committed more mistakes. The game could make sense out of every situation of every group that appeared in front of me… And that made me mad, because everyone had their reasons and I wanted a villain to kill! To take revenge!... ...In the end, I still understood Ellie and her forgiveness towards Abbie, exactly because everyone has their reasons. I was mad, but couldn't be mad at them, I was only mad, because life is unpredictable and things that we don't like can happen just like that. Life goes on. This journey had to end some way, and the way to end it wasn't by killing Abby after all… It wouldn't really be the end. And as soon as Ellie understood that, she could forgive Joel, Abby and, I hope, she forgave herself and finally settled up.,It really was such an experience and everything about it only made me feel even more immersed. The graphics, even though I don't pay a lot of attention to that, were truly beautiful and realistic, without being uncanny. The gameplay wasn't too difficult to a moron like me, but still gave me challenges and I didn't even feel frustrated when I died too many times, because my deaths were always by mistakes I really did commit and could just figure out what I had to change.,And a last thing, the fight with Ellie, playing as Abby, it was so creepy. It really felt like it was the Ellie I controlled. She acted different from almost every enemy and that made me really nervous.,I really think this game isn't just a good piece of entertainment, it makes us think, it gives us chills. The plot uses the gaming as a gadget to confuse you, you're not watching or playing, you are experiencing it. It's not fun because being in the situation of those characters isn't fun, it's not a game that has a plot just… because. It has a story, it uses it and it makes you feel the story, it's not an excuse to feel like you're a badass survivor killing monsters and enemies, you actually feel anxious, nervous, you feel fear, because you're not badass and you don't know what's going to happen. It really feels like more than playing, more than watching or even reading. It's an experience that I'll take with me for life.
560) Hadn't played the first game either so me and my both brothers picked up the remastered version and part 2. We wanted to experience both games for ourselves and then decide whether we like it or not. Since this review is only for the second game im going to make it quick. All 3 of us agree that this is one of the best games weve played so far. Cant understand the criticism at all. Story, gameplay and everything else adds up to an awesome experience.
561) Very nice diversity and muscular characters would reccomend to anyone with hands
562) Great game, well written and superbly acted.,Great Great Great Great Great Game.
563) In one word, masterpiece. It’s the best game I’ve played and the best story I’ve ever heard.
564) The game is well written ans the graffics are top of the line, abby is not a man, and the game does not follow any lgbt agenda
565) The game is an absolute masterpiece.,the gameplay is excellent : the animation are super fluid and smooth resulting in satisfying responsive melee and dodging and moving animations (crawling...) / the AI are incredibly realistic which further enhances immersion / the physics are indredible / the destruction elements are awesome/ the innovative motion matching animation system is done to perfection-same with the innovative crawling system (that's differnet from cod)-innovative sneaking between objects system that enables players to sneak between litterally anything resulting in even more immersive and dynamic experience and full control over the expansive detailed environments and parkour .,this game further proves how naughty dog are masters of 3A games with masterful crafting of well excecuted masterpieces that remain memorable for ages . another ND Work Of Art,10/10 .
566) Very deep emotional experiance ... quite so sometimes I got impatient but the main story and the ending was just pure genius. Will play this game a second time after sometime
567) This game was super great the people who are not liking it are 100% a Microsoft fan and they just want to make it looks bad, by the way the graphics was great it has a thousand of great details the gameplay was also perfect and the end the story was a masterpiece it was so sad and it makes it so much better thank you naughty for this great game we are waiting for crash 4 and I think that would be great too
568) Absolutely amazing game!!! Well done ND and thank you so much!! All of the haters out there and score bombers do not fit in my head... Critics review scores are on point! This game is AMAZING, period!
569) One of the best game I have ever played. I loved the first game and love this one as well. I don't understand why people give it bad reviews just for it being pretty sad and dark. I mean, we are talking about zombie apocalypse, right? What the **** do you expect?,,It had everything.. Great story, I mean like holy **** story. Gameplay very similar to the first game, which is not a bad thing... Graphics through the roof.. Sound design phenomenal.. What more do you want from a game?,,Even tho they didn't do anything new with the gameplay, it's definitely game of the year in my eyes.
570) The Last of Us Part 2 is the most impactful experience you'll ever get in a game, it's emotional narrative sets you in the most jaw dropping experience ever, picking up where part 1 left off. *spoilers* Sarah's killing in part 1 & Joel's in Part 2 are the top 2 saddest deaths in gaming history.
571) The Last of Us Part 2 is a game seven years in the making, the long awaited follow up to what is widely considered one of the best games of the last decade.,,Let me start by saying I think the story is amazing. I go much more in to the nitty gritty in my full review on my YouTube channel DotakuHUB but here I will just say that while there were completely personal issues I had with the structure of the story and placement of certain scenes, I think on the whole the narrative was wonderfully crafted. The story made me feel the entire range of emotions. Happiness, sadness, anger, frustration, all of it and there were parts where I felt really uncomfortable and even hated what was happening but that was the whole point. Its meant to make you feel uncomfortable, it's meant to challenge you. The long and short of it is that its not an easy story to experience but that's the whole idea.,,Graphically I mean, do I even have to say anything? This game is probably one of the most gorgeous games I have ever played if not THE most gorgeous. Sure its not my personal all time favorite from a stylistic standpoint, that’d be Bloodborne, but it is impossible to argue that this game in terms of pure graphical fidelity isn't absolutely jaw dropping. From the textures on things like Ellie's backpack, to the heaps of little details added to enhance character and weapon models, to the insanely dense environments, to the best in class lighting this game looks fantastic. Much like I couldn’t believe that Part 1 was running on a PS3 I can’t believe Part 2 is running on a PS4 and I can’t wait to see it running even better on the PS5.,,The sound design is great. This has some of the most immersive sound design in any game I’ve ever played. The sounds of the various weapons and enemies, the sounds of the surrounding world, the various audio cues, all serve to add to the atmosphere and tone of the game. I also really enjoyed the st of the game, from the licensed tracks to the songs written specifically for the game. It's all really well done.,,Gameplay wise this will feel very familiar to the first. You gather resources, craft, upgrade yourself and your weapons all while sneaking around and or killing various threats from both the infected and human enemies. That said there are tons of small changes and tweaks that make the gameplay feel even more enjoyable this time around, at least for me. Ellie for example doesn't need to craft shivs, instead using her knife for quick stealth kills and instead of valuable resources being hidden behind shiv doors you have to use basic problem solving skills to get into some more out of the way areas. Weapon upgrades are no longer locked behind tool kits, instead you can unlock any available weapon upgrades so long as you have sufficient bolts. Almost on the flipside, player upgrades are now locked behind various training manuals in a light skill tree system to enhance your stealth, crafting, combat ext. Stealth has seen an enhancement thanks to the ability to go entirely prone and hide under various objects and in tall grass,which helps in doing away with many of the stereotypical waste high walls from the first game. Combat sees the addition of a dodge mechanic which really helps make melee combat much more plausible and something I actually used way more often this time around.,,Overall The Last of Us Part 2 is a more than worthy sequel to Part 1. It created an even more emotionally challenging narrative, the graphics were a massive leap forward, the sound design was top notch and the gameplay was familiar but still a significant improvement of what was there.
572) The overall experience of the game is so out of the world and the gameplay and story are so immersive that I felt like hopping into the last of us world and work my way through it. I've never had such mixed emotions after a game, and I like that. The gameplay and story were realistic, I never had such experience ever before. I'm so lucky to have witnessed both TLOU and TLOU part 2. It's a must buy, don't follow the Utter rubbish, immature reviews. These guys have worked relentlessly for 7 years and it paid off. Thanks naughty dog, for the game, and I'm ever ready for the next part.
573) Good game! 10/10,only your high expectations prevented you from appreciating the game.
574) This game, I’m not afraid of the word, a masterpiece! I got so much emotion and understood the developer’s message. Thank you, Naughty Dog! I really hope for the third part of this game!
575) This game is a masterpiece. Anyone giving it a bad rating is either brain dead, hasn't played it, or is a butt hurt pansy who cries every time they don't get what they want. The story and gameplay are brilliant and the game looks BEAUTIFUL. Everyone throwing a tantrum over certain events in the plot need to get over themselves.
576) The last of us part 2 is an amazing game, it might have it’s sad moments and things that as a fan of the first game didn’t want to happen but at the end it all makes sense and you kind of accept it.
577) This is a good game... I don't get why it got so much hate... I guess its because the people who disliked this game didn't understand the story and I'm not going to explain because I don't want to give any spoilers... All I'm saying is that this game is so good and emotional, i loved it!
578) If you peel yourself away from expectation and entitlement and just go along for the ride It is a great game. People say that joel and Ellies characters don't feel authentic but survivors guilt has eaten away at Ellie for years. The killing of certain characters brutally is in line with the world that we have previously been introduced to. People are annoyed because now it applies to their favourite characters too. If you want a Holywood, 'everything ends wonderfully game dont buy this. If you want an unapologetic look into  the reality of the world presented and can appreciate more neaunced  story telling wuth genuine heart and feel and arnt just looked to be triggered by anything that is presented to you (entitiled) then you will see what a masterpiece this game is
579) This game very enjoy and ı love story,And for contiune kill the joel so i love it
580) this game is so hot, exciting, nice, amazing, game of the year congratulation
581) The first 1/2 of this, is about the review bombing. The 2nd, is what I thought, of which I'm going to be spoiler free, so I won't hit on certain subjects. At the end I will refer to the leaks, but not in detail.,Wow, well what can I say about this game. This game is intense, it is infuriating, it is ingenious, it is immoral, it is incredible. There's a lot of words there beginning with I. I did that, as I see a lot of negative reviews using I. "I wouldn't of done that". "I don't agree with that" etc. Now, I'm not discounting ALL the negative reviews, people are entitled to their opinions. However when you give a game a 5 out of 10 (hell less than a 7), because you say it's not what "you would have done". Sorry my dudes, but the game isn't about you.,An example of this that I'll give, and I won't refer to them by name. This reviewer said things like, they wouldn't have done that. They didn't understand or couldn't relate to, how the main character would do what they did, because of what happens to them. That they didn't like how part 2, forced them to play as if they killed a certain character at the end of part 1, and they're adamant they didn't. Things like that last part, are what you need to keep an eye out for. You have to kill that character at the end of part one, it's not a choice, part 1 forces you to do that. You can't complete the game if you don't. So straight away, you know this reviewer is full of it. Then the fact that they can't separate what they would do irl, from what a character would do in a video game. So to them, the narrative of the game is a mess, that doesn't make sense, so they give it a 5. You can't do that.,To me, the story of the last of us, is about the characters in the game, what decisions they would make, faults and all. Ultimately, it's about the story Naughty Dog wanted to tell, we're just along for the ride. Most of these negative reviews are attention seeking trolls, and review bombers, but not all.,The last of us part 2, took everything that was groundbreaking with the first game, and cranked it up. This game is one of the most technologically impressive games of the generation. It's level, sound and environmental design is exceptional, it's **** beautiful, to put it simply. Combat is fluid, and probably the best I've played this gen. Every encounter is harrowing. Each kill is brutal, and the fact that every enemy has a name, which the other npcs will call out when finding their body, just adds to horror. I won't even touch on the feels about the dogs. [Insert sad face],The story, however divisive, is one of the best I've ever experienced. That being said, when I think about the story. Sometimes I loved it, and at times, I straight up hated it. Which just made me love it more, because it provoked such an emotional response from me. That's the point. They perfectly crafted the game to do that. They want you to feel every moment, love and hate. That's what makes some of the story beats hit so hard, and gameplay choices make sense, once you've completed the game.,That's the biggest thing. PLEASE complete the game, then make your decision. Multiple times even. You can't take the leaks at face value. Some are true, some are just straight out lies, but all are taken out of context. Once you've played through the game, with all the facts, what Naughty Dog did with the story, makes perfect sense. You can see everyone's side of the story, you can understand everyone's motivations, and why they do what they do, or don't in some cases.
582) Well done game!! I love it!! The game play is amazing plus the graphics stunning and i enjoyed the story
583) Simply one of the best games I have ever played in my life. Naughty dog really knows how to tell a story. I strongly recommend to play, but you have got to be with your heart opened to understand.
584) Is a good game, your graphics are awesome and her story is romantic and dramatic. Is a masterpiece.
585) Incredible storytelling that forces you to examine yourself and your preconceived ideas on virtues, morals, justice and revenge.
586) It’s amazing in every sort of way. It’s the best game I have ever played in my hole entire life
587) It's a masterpiece, even if you don't agree with all the storyline decisions. Don't believe the conservative justice warriors who don't even finish the game. Also, the soundtrack is amazing too.
588) Fabulous game with very deep dramatic plot and complicated dilemmas, probably not for those who don't appreciate more emotional experience. It makes you think, makes you feel, empathize for the main characters and go through the same pain, anger, love and desire for revenge. I would definitely recommend to try it for everyone who are able to appreciate good drama. It's very sad to read exaggerated comments about the game mostly derived from the fact that the main character is not typical Mary Sue and could die in very cruel, dangerous and difficult for surviving world. It's even more pity to know that some people were so upset with the plot they have sent threats for creators and actors, made me start to lose believe in humanity.
589) This game is a masterclass in storytelling, game design, animation, game systems and more than anything narrative. Unfortunately, it has been subject to negative criticism from people who are unable to handle the emotional stress it puts you through. Naughty Dog asks us the hard questions about our own personalities even as we put ourselves in the shoes of each character.,Joel dies guys, deal with it. I cried. But I didn't hate on the game because of that. It's amazing how you hate Abby in the beginning. When the turn happens in Seattle Day 3 and we are forced to play as Abby. I put the controller down and took a day off. I pushed myself to continue and that decision paid off. By the end of the game, I did not want to kill Abby when I fight with her as Ellie. I was rooting for Abby not to die. The same Abby that killed Joel. Now, that is the beauty of this medium we call video games. The agency and narrative possible does not allow a movie to achieve this level of involvement.,This is why I think this game should be in the hall of fame of video games.,A few other things I want to state is the amazing work the studio has done with every art in the game. Design, Mechanics, Animation. Everything perfected. The sound design and cinematography are top notch and better than most Hollywood blockbusters. Overall, an amazing experience that puts you through some dark and some very fun light moments.
590) Amazing game! Really cool game play and i really like the story and the graphics are beautifull! Only sometimes the parts where you need to walk to an new story moment is a little to long.
591) The Last Of Us Part II made me think about a game that was released to critical acclaim in early 2013. The game was praised for it's inclusion of, and dealing with, difficult themes like racism, extremism and nationalism and multiple reviewers nominated it instantly for game of the year. That is until the original The Last Of Us was released a couple of months later. The game I'm referring to is Bioshock Infinite.   The reason The Last Of Us Part II reminded me of this, admittedly incredible, game was as a result of the realisation on how far the medium has come since it's release. One of the most memorable scenes in Bioschock Infinite, regarding racism, led the player to a raffle where a choice is presented for the player to throw a baseball in one of two directions. Through Booker DeWitt (coincidentally voiced by Troy Baker), the player can choose to throw the ball at an interracial couple tied up amidst jungle decor including depictions of monkeys and a giant blackface behind them or at the presenter that's working up the crowd to do the same which would result in the stoning of the couple. It was an incredible moment that dared to drop such a serious topic on the player and it was the first time I considered videogame characters as more than just their total sum of pixels and programming. The game, however, never accepts the consequences of either option for the player. It doesn't matter what choice you let Booker perform he will always be stopped by a guard who recognises the player character, setting the resulting narrative in action. The player never has to face the outcome of their choice. Bioshock Infinite was in that sense still a typical 'gamey' game.,,Where Bioshock Infinite carefully opened the door to take a quick look at what games could someday be, The Last Of Us 2 completely knocks that door down and rushes through to the other end. It is a brutally honest game; honest to it's characters, world and the various themes it presents but even moreso to it's players. Naughty Dog, from beginning to end, forces them to come to grips with their actions in game, playing as both Ellie and Abby, resulting in a certain emotional toll on the player. And even moreso: they masterfully craft those emotions through various nuances and intensity. We flow from sheer excitement to be back in this world to an incredible mixture of hate and wanting revenge. From that the player is carefully and step by step allowed to feel shock, trauma, disgust, fear, hope and, what left the greatest impression on me: grief.,,This, for me, is the first game ever to accomplish this. I vividly remember when I had to play as Abby and I sincerely hoped it wouldn't take too much time. It felt uncomfortable and even though I realised why I had to play as Abby, her murdering Joel simply still hurt too much. At the end of her three days and inching closer to the confrontation with Ellie I understood her character and what she has been through. I understood what she did and what it had cost her. Then the confrontation with Ellie starts and my heart is beating furiously in my throat. Though I empathise with Abby I definitely don't want her to kill Ellie, least of all when I'm controlling her. I also don't want Abby to be killed by Ellie. I've never wanted to avert a 'boss-fight' this much.,,Then the Farm scene acts as an incredible release valve. For a moment all seems well. Ellie and Dina survived Seattle and have settled on the most beautiful farm with little JJ. It all just feels a little too perfect. And it is. It was at this time I finally realised that the narrative followed a traditional five-act structure and that the act of peripety still had to come. The peripety is typically set in motion by a messenger and results in the final showdown and conclusion of the main character's story. Ellie's PTSD and Tommy's visit both act as our messenger and sure enough it does move the pieces to the final conflict. Ellie once again goes after Abby for revenge with a drive to kill her. This time however it is in no way to get justice for Joel's death as it is much more about Ellie desperately trying to find a way to deal with her trauma. Where I sympathised with her quest for revenge after Joel died I couldn't be more antagonistic to her actions now. I wanted to somehow make her realise all she is throwing away by going after Abby now.   Then, after it's conclusion, even weeks after finishing the game, what remains is grief. Revisiting some pivotal scenes reveal that in how it first evokes hate, it now manifests as a deep sadness. The Last Of Us Part II perhaps isn't the perfect game, but to me it is the first game te genuinely transcend the medium. It creates realistic, multidimensional characters and doesn't shy away from their imperfections all the while dealing with delicate themes with the respect they deserve. This game is a successful attempt to mature the medium and I can't wait how it will influence future gaming.
592) Great game overall. People just hating because it’s different. One of my favorite games thus far
593) The techynical aspects are awesome, as the gameplay, graphics, face expressions, and more. The lore of game is really good, i think is not better than first game, but the discussion of it is awesome, there isn't a good side in a apocalypse I am Brazilian, so my english is not very well. Sorry.
594) I've beaten this game 3 times already, I don't get the hate. Enjoyed it more than the first game. The story is bold and the gameplay is much improved over the original.One of the best games of the year.
595) This was one of the best games that I have ever played. The characters and themes are unlike any that I have encountered in the video game medium. It honestly elevates the medium to the level of great literature. Not every great story is necessarily a happy one and this one can be emotionally brutal at times. I am on my third playthrough and am enjoying more than I did the first time through.
596) This game is awesome. The story is very very good. It moved me many times. And it’s not just about the story. Everything is done perfectly. The game runs flawless, with very beautiful graphics. Besides that, the battle system works pretty well and I also like the options of adjusting the difficulty in different ways. About what some people are saying : the game doesn’t try to push an agenda on you. It just happens that the main character is a lesbian. It wouldn’t change much if she was straight, or a man, or black, or whatever because it’s not important.
597) One or a kind! Last of us 2 is atmospheric, intense, well narrated and has the best graphics I ‘ve ever seen in a game.
598) Beyond Good and Evil. Another masterpiece by Naughty Dog, huge amount of details, excelent gameplay and above all a story that will make you love or hate for the characters, everyone has their reasons. It's a game about vengence and dealing with the consequences. Last of us Part 2 makes you believe you can either be the hero or the villain.
599) One of the best games, if not the best I’ve ever played. The whole game was incredible from start to finish and I was totally immersed in the storyline
600) Very good job. Really one of the best games I've ever played. If you're looking for a story about REAL humans — this is the best choice. There are no 100% good or 100% bad persons. You feel really sorry about everything and everyone. No, clearly, I clicked pause for a couple of times, because I couldn't help myself and cried and cried and cried.
601) Loved the game, from beginning to the end. Like the characters and the tone of the game. Graphics are incredible.
602) LOL. 5.6. for a MASTERPIECE like this game. By far the best ever made for PS4. Epic.
603) I really love how ND gave us the game. I think is the best game of the generation. Is not fan service is a really AAA by autor. I love more than the first part.
604) Great game, very thought provoking. Before you hate on this game, I implore you to play through it yourself and think through why you don’t like it. If you’re angry at the game, you’re proving the game’s lessons correct. Keep your heart and mind open while playing and you’ll have a eye opening story.
605) Pls, kill me. An emotional war inside me. Game of the Year.,Thanks, Naughty Dogs.
606) This game is a master peace, love the story the game play I really dont see all the hate it's okay tho people have there opinions but in my opinion if you love the first one you'll love this one!
607) Stop crying like babys about Joel, The Last of Us isn't like other games where principal characters are invincible, this game -my favourite game- wants to be more REAL
608) The game is a visual masterpiece, and the story is definitely not bad, although I can see why some players won't come to terms with it.,,When Abby's part begins, it quickly becomes obvious that the game is more like a two-in-one short games instead of just one long game. This is because none of the upgrades and improvements gained for Ellie carry over to Abby, With Abby the game starts anew, even to the point of introducing new weapons, along with reset upgrades and improvements. Abby will need to be leveled up just like Ellie was.,,So considering this, I'd suggest anyone to play the game all the way to when Abby is introduced again, and stop there for a couple of weeks. Go play something else, then return after a while, because you'll be returning to the "3rd game" in the series.
609) I  dont care what the other playres say I love this game..............................................
610) Completely fascinated. This is a game that goes beyond expectations, for sure. Only few games get the player deeply involved with the story releasing a lot of feelings at at time, this was one of them. Undoubtedly the bad reviews come from those who have never read a book in their life, this game is totally a work of art in so many ways. Is very realistic, and reality is hard and complicated, and that’s what many of players (narrow minded) hate the most. In my opinion is totally worth it! Great graphics, great story and great soundtrack.
611) A riveting take on a revenge tale. I commend Naughty Dog for telling this story, because I'm sure they knew it would stir up audience expectations. It's gaming experiences like this one that make me return to games, even if it did progressively prune my soul.
612) The Best and Bold story that I have ever seen in a video game naughty dog has done a great work. It needs guts to add that kinda ending in a fan beloved series. The people who are dissapointed by the story is because of the ending which in my opinion is one of the boldest endings. You have to play the game to form your opinion. The players who are dissapointed by the game are not seeing the whole picture, they are just carried away with feeling of taking revenge. But if see the whole scenario it was the best thing that Ellie could do. You should definitely give it a try because it's worth a shot, even if don't like the story a lot (if you are too carried away), you will definitely like the Gameplay, the graphics, the sound effects and every other aspect of the game and yeah the accessibility of the game is fab you can customise almost every bit of the game, from the shape of the retical to the health and intelligence of the enemies. And also the weapon upgrade scenes are very fascinating. Do consider this review. Thank you for your time for reading. HAPPY GAMING!!
613) If you want the story to be like the first game, than go to play the first game! If you only want a developer that goes all "fan service" than it's not the right game for you; just go play some game with a simple storyline like GoT, got it?,Anyway, this is game of the year.
614) Stunning emotional game! My favorite game ever! Gorgeous graphics and sounds!
615) A true masterpiece. If the story wasn't to your liking, that's on you. What the game delivers is quantifiably, measurably, ultra-high caliber and of the highest order.
616) Amazing, astonishing, perfect, i cant describe what this game has done to me
617) An absolute masterpiece.,This game was beautifully crafted and had me on an emotional rollercoaster throughout the entire course of the story. Fueled with anger and hate at the beginning, then empathy and sadness in the middle, and finally peace at the end.,I loved each character -- even Abby who I had initially hated. The relationships between each main character was genuine and amazing. This experience was like no other.,I am very proud of Naughty Dog and the risks they took with this game. I hope they do not let the negative criticisms deter them from continuing to take similar risks in the future.,This game is a must play to anyone who loves an amazing story. Way to go Naughty Dog!
618) plot, gameplay and even design ... everything in this game is excellent ... it is much better than the first part
619) Very, very good game. Don't let the haters prevent you from playing this absolute masterpiece.
620) I know there are a ton of controversies about this game but they are mainly based on ridiculous personal preferences or lazy thinking.  This game is a masterpiece.  From the visuals, to the gameplay, and especially the story line, it keeps you more than 100% invested the entire time!  Easily one of the top 5 games and stories every developed.  You’d be insane not to play this game!
621) Wow. This Is a good game, with a good and a long story. Very enjoyable. Compliments to Noughty Dog.
622) Masterpiece! Better than first part for me. The story, emotions is unforgettable experience
623) An emotionally immersive game!,I see it as an masterpiece of gameplay!,It was an emotial rollercoaster ! :D,I fully recommend that game!
624) More then everything you can immagine, is a deep voyage throw any kind of emotion, forever in my heart. Thank you Neil Druckman!
625) Absolutely impressive game, with great flair, deep story and nice controls. Great work of Naughty dog.
626) The Last Of Us part II is nothing seen before. A hard, realistic masterpiece. Amazing.
627) A masterpiece - an amazing video game about revenge, justice, the cycle of violence, and forgiving, that lives up to its predecessor and creates a unique and ambitious story that could only be told as a video game.
628) Don't understand the hate, i like the game os well done and time os time. Gg
629) game of the year 2020 its the best game ever made  is the best game i've ever played
630) The game is wonderful, as expected of the Naughty dogs. The plot of the game is at the highest level. It allows you to look at the situation from different angles.
631) This game is simply perfect! One of the best games of generation!,Gameplay, graphics and history makes me love this game, thank you Naughty Dog!
632) Im sitting here with the credits rolling after i finally got my hands on it. I knew the „controversal“ topics, i somehow knew the big story plot. But still: this game IS a masterpiece. The story is a logical continuation of the first part, like if you think about it and reflect it you really understand why the things that are happening in part two are happening. Apart from that, this games looks just absolutely phenomenal. Those detailed and diverse levels, the animations and also the sound! Everything is so polished, i sat here with a wide open mouth, staring at fern and birches, at mud and grass like an excited little child because its unbelievable beautiful. The gameplay is a more polished version of part 1 but still the same, which isnt something bad, like it isnt a call of duty or an ark, its good as it is.,People are **** around because the game doesnt deliver the warm hearted family friendly content they all somehow expected, its a modern game spinning current topics into its long and well told story, with a lot of characters where you more and more learn why they did certain things they did. I really started to feel what the different characters are going through, giving me an emotional carousel because they all have theire different point of views on the same topic.,Im really mad to read all the hate and negative feedback because i personally cannot understand it. Its a masterpiece and every gamer that is merely interested in story games should try to play this fantastic game.
633) Don't get any information about this game until finish the game. if you play this game without any prejudge. you can know that this game is one of great masterpiece.
634) Ok, let's sum up what that user score is all about:,,The game got about 30.000 0-1 reviews by 3-4 hours after release. The reason: mostly rage about the story as a whole and the character development. Ehmm, lets say: a rough plot from a leak is one thing. The way you develop it and the narration a completely different thing. Given the fact that this is where the game really shines, none of that can be judged after 3 hours.,,So it all comes down to review bombing. And there are a lot of reasons that motivate it:,,- Story leaks that led to hasty judgments of the plot,- Hate on Naughty Dog because of the restrictive policy in dealing with these leaks,- Inability or displeasure in dealing with difficult issues or ways of storytelling,- Political agendas about SJWS,- Envy towards the PS and its exclusives,,The reasons not to bomb the game would be millions. I let the numberless positive reviews stand for themselves. All is said about what a blast the game is in every way. Unfortunately it fell victim to an idiotic cyber mob that did explicitly not judge the quality of the game because 90% of them did not even play it ...,,I rate 10. After 2 playthroughs. Cheers
635) You're missing out if you listen to the zero's.  Don't let the petty bandwagon haters tell you what to like.
636) The best game this year. The game of the generation. Better than the original game. The best game of Naughty Dog. I can't play another games because of this game and because they all look like trash.
637) This game is a masterpiece. The gameplay improves on the original in every way, it has the best graphics I’ve ever seen, and it is definitely the most detailed game in history. The story doesn’t play it safe and takes risks no other game would be willing to take. They don’t stuff it full of fan service, instead they tell the story they wanted to tell, and it’s the story that needed to be told. The performances in this game are perfect! Neil Druckmann, Halley Gross and everyone involved are geniuses! I’ve beat The Last of Us 1 over 20 times and have the platinum trophy, so far I’ve beat part 2 five times and also have the platinum trophy, and I plan on beating TLOU2 many more times. It improves upon part 1 in every way. The Last of Us Part II is the greatest game of all time!
638) One of the best story narratives I've played in all of my gaming life. It bends you emotionally, there are things in this game you don't want to see, a mixed story of Abby and Ellie, their journeys, the decision Joel makes, I would rate this higher than God of War and Red dead Redemption 2. A must play and if you aren't emotionally strong enough to take a negative outcome, you're looking for fun in video games, steer clear from this one because it's not fun and it leaves a scar on you when you end it.
639) If I could give them more than just money...,With a truly exceptional setting, narrative and gameplay, TLOU2 is a masterpiece. I did not expect any of the things that were about to happen, and it surely took me out of my comfort zone.,Narratives usually give us a nice story, where good things happen at the end and the characters I care about are heroic and brave and fulfill my expectations and prejudices.,But the last of us 2 gives us realistic HUMAN characters dealing they have to deal with a ruthless fictional universe.,At many points while playing I was relieved a situation was over, only to be followed by a more emotional difficult situation ahead and this could be perceived throughout the game.,If you do something your Character doesn't like, you will notice changes in the body language of the character. This attention to detail makes the game a masterpiece in every aspect.,I could relate a lot to all the characters and situations.,This journey will accompany and haunt me for many years. And I cannot thank enough the developers of the game for doing their thing.,I hope we get more.
640) A story about revenge and forgiveness beautifully done, you feel angry/disappointed/happy/sad and this is what makes this game a masterpiece
641) This is an Incredible Game! The Last of Us 2 brings an extraordinary story, with well built characters, an impressive narrative and the most realistic graphics I’ve ever seen! After finally finishing the story of the game, to me it was clear: this game was not made for fans! Many people thought that TLOU 2 would have an ending that was as exciting and emotionally intensive as the first one... however that didn’t happen! That is why many players were disappointed: although the story is complex and awesome, it may not have ended in an expected way for most of us. Here is my opinion about the game: 1. NARRATIVE Very different from what happened in the Last of Us 1, the second game is more focused on “the limits of humans sanity at an apocalypse”. And they definitely made it!,NaughtyDogs has created a game that makes you question yourself all the time: what would you do if you were that character and why does that character act that way? It makes you wear their shoes and experience the consequences of their actions during the story. You never know which is the right side, until you realize there is no right side in an apocalypse!,It is a complex story of revenge, and how hard it is to deal with ourselves and the others at an apocalypse. It plays with our emotions and thoughts in a fascinating way! The characters are very well constructed and that makes an enormous difference during the narrative. 2. GRAPHICS,About the graphics, it is just unimaginable! It brings an impressive variety of details, with a great color selection and very realistic characters. About that, nobody can disagree. 3. GAMEPLAY The gameplay is even better than at the first one! TLOU 2 brings wider spaces for exploration, more realistic actions and antagonists, new weapons and infected levels, and much more. 4. CHARACTERS When it comes to the characterization, I’m honestly very satisfied! They’ve constructed very expressive and complex characters, fact that has everything to do with how the story is built and how it ends. So that’s it! The Last Us 2 definitely has brought a lesson to many people, its ending teaches us a lot about how rev... ops!! Guess you’re going to have to play it to find out! Hope you liked the review!
642) The game of the year!!!
643) This is game in my view is another masterpiece told how exactly naughtydog planned it to be told. The graphics where absolutely stunning Played this later than most people had too swerve every spoiler. While trying to read how people felt about it, it was emotional thought Joel's death was the most heartbreaking as I did not expect it to be so brutal, hating abby for what she did and theoretically killing Joel myself with how I controlled abby into meeting up with joel.,But thought I felt Ellie in her journey and when I thought it was over it was abbys turn to show me her side of the story wow id never fought id understand what she had gone through. Even to the point where I was like " Ellie don't leave your family to get her just settle down now its what joel would of wanted" The story on the whole was  no where near the same as the first TLOU but thats because they both had two different emotions behind them. Id love to replay this game but joels death was to heartbreaking maybe one day when I can let it sink in,really was an emotional ride I felt for each character and there journeys.,Thank you Naughtydog for delivering me this perfect story.
644) Great game from begining to the end!! Good story, hope they go to third part
645) A really good game, not better than the first part but one of the best games of the generation
646) Incredible, beautiful game. THIS IS A DIFFERENT GAME THAN TLOU 1. If you go in expecting the same story, you will be disappointed. It is its own story. Sure, it has a few problems, infected enemies are still less interesting than humans, but I firmly believe it deserves a 10/10.
647) Titanic work. The best graphics, animations, details, advanced gameplay in the spirit of the first part, and especially for me, a real live story that causes you real emotions, turns your worldview. No other game evokes such feelings. The finale just makes you feel cathartic. True masterpiece. All other games are now kindergarten.,Guys from ND you are insane and simply best!
648) Perfect gameplay,perfect animation, mesmerizing graphics and, an absolute masterpiece
649) This game is just perfect. The graphic, sound, music and design is simply unrivaled and it its the best you can get on PS4. The gameplay is also very fun but more old proven formula than innovative.,But what make this game so good is its story. The storytelling is really on the level of movie or book - characters, feelings, motivations, characters developing in time.,No doubt this is game of the year (mabye game of the decade).
650) The swan song for ps4, no other game comes even close in term of story, graphics, gameplay, voice acting, soundtrack.,,P.s. the fact that the review bombers, to try to find a reason to bash this game, say that the gameplay is "the same" as TLOU1 really prove that they didn't play the game at all. Caught you! :)
651) For the first time in my life I didn't know if I liked or hated a game right after I finished it. And that's when the game is great. It spreads so much negative emotion that you come to hate it, not for what it is, but for what it conveys. The post-apocalyptic world is raw and tasteless, it leaves too little room for joy and gaiety. The game has big flaws but they are minimal compared to its technical and graphic qualities. The scenario has displeased a lot of people, including me at times, and that's also where I think the game excels. naughty dogs knew very well when writing the scenario that it would make a lot of people talk and not necessarily in a good way, but they went in that direction anyway. It's a risk taking that can only be rewarded. I never thought a video game would be able to convey that kind of emotion. GOTY
652) It's a perfect sequel , a masterpiece and one of the greatest game of all time
653) Again the best story game on the market. The different storylines of two characters are amazing.
654) I know why many people hate this game. It took me 27 hours to complete, which took more than two weeks, I gave myself some time to think about what the hell is happening. I think I know why people hate this game.,Let's be honest, everyone liked Joel and stuff, but could never understand his decision from the first part. He killed people, many people, some innocent some not. But most of all, he killed the hope that humanity had, the hope of getting things back to normal. And many people hated him for that. This part is about revenge, where things go ugly and the people who suffer the most are always innocent. Ellie and Abby are so similar yet so different. The game shows you that this revenge path is a circle, which will unavoidably lead to more suffering and pain. People who did not like this game just did not try to understand it. I see so many reviews about how they will not complete the game, how they are not willing to sympathise with Abby and listen to her part of the story. This game is not about LGBT, muscular woman, pregnant woman or transgenders. If you just try to listen to whatever this game is trying to teach you, wait for a bit and carry on playing till the very end, you will see that the details of the lgbt and all of that does not matter. Lev and Yara are amazing characters no matter what.,Do not ruin your game experience with limiting your emotion spectrum to the level of a tea bag. Listen first to what game is trying to teach you and then write your review.,The reason why I liked this game is very simple yet it took me to realise that. This game is deep. It tells you so much yet leaves the analytical part to yourself. This is why many people thought that the game is wrong. They just never gave it a second thought. And this game needs more than just one extra thought. I read many comments and saw enough reviews to understand that many people just treated it as a game, not the story that you analyse and understand, just another game. I see that many people did not understand what the first part was all about and they carried this misunderstandings to the second part and therefore understood nothing and ended up hating the game and ruining one of the best playing experiences you can ever have just playing a game.,If you are ready to listen, to learn about what the game is trying to tell you, if you have patience to learn then you should definitely give this game a go. I would recommend it to anyone, except for kids, this game has way to many violence and is too deep for kids to play, they will not understand **** about this game and end up writing a negative review.,Do not play this game if you are dumb as **** and have no sympathy towards others or hate anything that has to do with transgenders or gay people. But i think this limitations can be applied to any game, so just go to school and do your homework bro
655) A stunning story. I've never played a game or experienced a story where you are so emotionally invested to two different viewpoints like this. Absolutely fantastic from start to finish.
656) The best game I've played this year. After waiting YEARS for the TLOU2 to come out I am blown away. Please never stop creating games I never wanted the game to end.
657) Just finished the game, and wow, just wow.,Narratively unlike anything ever done on videogames, heartbreaking, haunting, im literally crying on my bed.,Albeit the gameplay felt slightly old, with a few tropes we've seen before, the story never ceases to hurt and engage you, first by antagonizing your enemies, and then, believably and effortlesly convincing you of their humanity, making you question your heroes and purpouse and reflecting on the purpouse of revenge and the power of perspective. We're so used to a world of videogames focused on brainless blind-button-mashing-murder, that is refreshing when certain games bring about the oportunity to reflect - reminding me of Undertale in this subject.,Due to the gameplay, for about 80% of the game it felt like a solid 8, 8.5, but the final stretch was just devastating, surely a game i won't ever forget. This not only expands on the legacy of the first game, but sets a new standard for the series, and for video game storytelling and acting in general.,,PS. All you whiny kids who didnt play the game, or cant handle the fact gender issues are a fact of life, or feel entitled to have your perspective on these characters persist in your fantasies, go write fan fiction, and not metacritic reviews. Of go play CoD and just give up on growing up. Anyone giving this game less than a 7 is acting in bad faith - the game is bugless, the gameplay is at the very least enjoyable, the acting is top-notch and the writing is phenomenal (NO EXPOSITION PEOPLE, OMG)
658) Almost as good as the original, which I rate as my favorite of all time. A really depressing game that came out during COVID - but a must play when you’re in the right mood. Is it as happy as the first one, no. Is it a story worth telling, absolutely.
659) This game is just brilliant. It makes you feel some many different emotions and make you think about life. It's just beatiful. Congrats naughty dog.
660) Man to be honest this is the only game that i struggle to view it as a game, its more then,a movie also...its a real living, breathing experience, i didnt play it, i experience it, is hard to put it in words. I love everything about it, form the lore to the small details that strucks you and manage to push your buttons in a way no other game did. Aparat from all this emotions the game, from a technical perspective its amazing, graphics, gameplay, animation, all its top notch. Also the story and the plot its mind blowing, i love the fact that the producers did not go with the flow and with what fans expected and instead they took a whole new approach and delivered a true masterpiece that would be talked about for years to come.
661) Amazing game, increible storytelling and gameplay. No doubt is a must play.
662) Wanted to finish this masterpiece before i could leave my honest review. Very hard and grim game. Its hard to put on words but i understand what the creators intended to potray with the story. In the end even though i didnt like Abby i sure was not okey with Ellies desicions so i tried to let her kill me. Its interesting to feel this switch of perspective. I wad hoping for that ending and got it in a more cruel but real way. Anyhow, even if u hate the story and what they did to Joel this game doenst deserve a 0 at all. Game mechanics and art are amazing so from someone that didnt enjoy it genuenly a 5 or 6 would be understandable.
663) Fantastic game. Improved game controls from the first one that fixed lack of intuition. Story was compelling, touched on modern issues of gender and sexuality allowing it be normalised and without trying to shove it down players throats as an attention grabber.
664) Superb gameplay, liked the story also, nothing goes as you expecting not a game for kids or brainless
665) Stop with the false narrative: There isn't a strong divide between players, as the user score makes it seem. Most people who have ACTUALLY played and finished the game, like it. This game was and still IS getting heavily review bombed.,It's also misinformation that the game was carrying some "agenda". Characters in this game simply exist...no one is rubbing anything in your face and if you didn't know Eliie was a lesbian you never were a fan of this franchise to begin with!,Isn't it ironic that a game about "hate" does garners so much of it from immature people, who seemingly feel unmasked by this game? Isn't it ironic that poor Neil Druckmann gets all the blame, even though HE wrote the first game (TLOU) ON HIS OWN? (Nombet you haters didn't know that, huh?),It's an incredibly brutal and mature game, yet they behave like children while trying to talk it down, rating it down disrespectfully and totally unfairly. It's blatantly obvious by reading the positive and negative reviews on here, who has REALLY played let alone finished the game.,After finishing it myself after 32 hours I can’t believe I’m saying this, but this is game is even better than the first game. It’s a wild and partly cruel ride, but it’s an experience you’ll never forget and something no other game has achieved so far on this level of emotional impact and exhilarating gameplay. I have not played a better game in my whole life.,,Will it hurt you? Yes, but in the end everything comes around. Don’t listen to the trolls and haters. This game is an absolute must play!
666) Great sequel of great game. Story was amazing, gameplay was perfect. Can't wait for next Naughty Dog game!
667) Its aight. To be honest, I was expecting worse, after the leaks, but let me tell you something, I got the game, the same reason I got the first one, for the grim and dreadful environment, expecting fun from a zombie game, I found it fun, I wanted the game to be good, It wasn't disappointing.
668) Holy **** **** I have a real depression now. Ellie lost it all: Joel, family, even the possibility to play her guitar. Abby lost it all too, but in the end she still sees the light and finds the will to live in herself. Don’t know what to do know with my life.
669) First of all, the game showed that revenge is not the best decision because violence brings just more violence. Secondly, Ellie not killing Abby shows Ellie as a really strong character, not weak as some people misunderstood. Three, this masterpiece dives deep into human emotions and makes you go through all of them in their purest form. They tried to trigger your anger but also showed that both Abby and Ellie have good and bad sides. Ever heard of Yin and Yang? They are also way more similar than it seems visually. Four, it takes to be a little more open-minded to accept the story. I know it's not for everyone. The story is meant to be depressive and rough. That makes the world of tlou much more believable - let's not forget we are being shown postapocalyptic world and not sugar-coated, having-a-happy-ending story. I think that the characters aren't shown as main and secondary, but as equal individuals that could get easily hurt by the cruel world around them no matter what their role in the game is. I as a player felt the joy and the anger (anger not expressed towards the game because that would be just stupid, sorry). Five, Joel brought this to himself. Yeah, his decision in the hospital was hard. It was either to save human kind from the disease or save himself from the loneliness and losing another 'daughter'. He was seeking that love and wanted to fill that hole in his heart from Sarah's death. Well, every act has its consequences and it is what it is. No turning back. Six, this game is not something that you should just play and watch, you should think more about its representations and try to understand why things are like that in stead of just demanding the game to tell you everything. It's a game for people who are able to think more deeply and empathize. Seven, it's a story told. Just like you have your story and I have mine. You can't change it whether you like it or not. We sometimes lose things e value but it is what it is and you have to live with it. That's what stories have always been for me. I don't think there are good and bad stories - just stories that we want to listen or not.
670) **** bangs so hard **** the haters they dont kno what they sayin nomsayin' damn
671) ARE WE PLAYING THE SAME TITLE ????,Why do this game get a lot of bad user review ????,To people who dislike the story, you need to see the meaning behind all of the act. Naughty dog did a real amazing job, making a story that actually will really happen in real life. It's a post apocalypse zombie situation. What did u all expect ???? Well what i can only say that this game isn't for everyone and one hell of a kind different game.,A whole lot different level !! MASTERPIECE 10/10
672) Apart from the fact that joel dies in the game everything is as exceptional as the first installment.,Never played a game before and cried playing a game.,If somebody can't decide is it worth playing this game after it got so many negetive reviews!,I would suggest them to just play once then devide by your self.,Don't miss this fearless journey.
673) what an absolute gem of a game. I have never played such a stylised game with a story hard to predict. The characters have a real depth and show the wear of a post apocalyptic world where joy is hard found. Great story, great plot  great action, unbelievable graphics and a game that is brave enough to push the boundaries
674) An absolute masterpiece in every way. Stunning graphics, best animation of this generation and a story that will have you glued to your TV. Naughty Dog delivered big time. Don‘t listen to the homophobes out there, some gamers stil have some growing up to do.
675) Absolutely incredible. I made an account to rate this. Please ignore the reviews and play it with an open mind.
676) One of the most beautifully written stories to ever grace the video game industry.
677) Splendid game! I felt a strong empathy for every character, it was quite hard to define bad or good to them. Amazing storytelling tech.
678) Great story! Maybe not the story you were expecting or hoping for but it was realistic in my opinion. I can understand why so many disliked the game, but for me I did my best to look past those views and tried to insert myself in the character’s role. By imagining yourself in the character’s environment, personal life experiences, and their current state of mind I think many can agree they would make similar if not the same decisions the characters make in this game. I loved this game despite the dark story, but the story is the reason I love this game so much, it’s realistic. I’m not saying to ignore all the negative comments this game received, all I want to ask is that you play the game for yourself because obviously it caused a lot of disagreements within the gaming community. To be honest isn’t this what ever game developer wants, their fans to discuss how they interpreted the story and what they saw that others didn’t. I definitely recommend this game to anyone interested in playing it even if it’s just to see what everyone is arguing about because the storytelling NaughtDog does is out of this world. I love the Last of Us games and support NaughtyDogs decision in the story they decided to use, a risky story decision makes the experience for fans more interesting.
679) This game is an absolute masterpiece in storytelling and is a unique achievement for gaming. Only in this medium can you tell a story like this and have it hit you the way this game does. It is truly emotionally challenging. It asks a lot of you but if you are open to it, you will have a singular experience. It’s sad how many bad reviews it’s gotten from people who are closed off to the emotional challenges of the experience and/or the few LGBTQ characters. My heart breaks for these people. I can’t imagine how many other things they miss in their lives. Kudos to the creative team on this game. One of the best experiences of my gaming lifetime.
680) This game was mind blowing! The attention to detail contributes to the game and story telling. Everything in TLAO ii is well done. The story takes many unsuspected turns. It’s not what you want but it’s what you need if you are looking for a story that steps outside traditional lines.
681) There as three types of people that doesn’t like this game:,- Homophobic conservatives,- Dumb enough to not get the story,- Crying babies,,This game could have the happy heterosexual story that you want. It don’t change the fact the this game is wonderful! Best graphics of the gen, art direction, original soundtrack. The majesty of scenarios are stunning! The mechanics of gameplay are simple, clear and functional. I love how the script were made in such way that every little pieces during the gameplay are connected, from a broken window to a big event.,If you still thinking that this is a game about revenge, you don’t really get it. Just get over and stop being a crying baby.,Part 2 is the most beautiful game i’ve ever played.
682) STORYTELLING AT ITS BEST,At the end of the first chapter you ask yourself, maybe that was just my case, if Joel can be considered a hero. The answer is no, he has committed a lot of atrocities culminating with killing all the doctors searching for a cure in this devastated world. Obviously you care about this character because of the 10 to 15 hour long story which you play for most of the time with him, and also you see him and Ellie bonding during the journey, and you as well with them.,In this second chapter the death of Joel cannot go in other ways, maybe you want him to die like an hero, but I think that in this world created in such a great way by Druckmann there's no hero or no villain, his death is used in a masterly way that seeing him dying make you fell like Ellie. I was feeling heartbroken and mad at the same time (like Ellie) and seeking for revenge (again, like Ellie), but progressing through Ellie's story you start asking yourself if revenge is worth it. Then when you think "well okay time for the final fight" Naughty Dog (great move from them in my opinion) switches characters and make you play as Abby starting from the moment when you understand why she did what she did and then the same 3 days in Seattle you already played as Ellie.,Playing as Abby i do not think is a slap in the face from naughty dog to the player, it is just another point of view, and you realize that she is not the villain (at least in her own story) but Joel is. Joel killed her father, the doctor at the end of the first chapter. playing as Abby you understand that she is not happy for what she  has done, also you can see her nightmares progression into  dreams as soon as she is "redeemed".,I do not want to write all the 5000 characters that metacritic allows me to do, i just want to say that naughty dog did a great job writing this story and these characters where there is no black or white but just one grayish shade. The final is a perfect for this story, yes is sad and if you ask me to describe the final in one world I would say "devastating" , but there is still hope underneath all of this sadness.,Now let me just talk about the technical compartment, music, animations, gameplay (enhanced from the previous game where it was solid, now is almost perfect),  AI of the enemies (especially on survivor difficulty), level design are the best you can ask from a triple A title.,in conclusion this is a game that is worth buying, surely divisive, but that make you feel emotions you probably never felt in a videogame and in such a different way from the others that I've played it already two times and on the second run I've discovered new details that in the second run I missed.,I personally don't understand all this criticism with the 0 ratings, guys if you at the end still want to kill Abby you have missed the game that naughty dog is playing with you.,Sometimes (maybe a lot of the time) a different point of view is not useless because you can start thinking rationally instead of being involved and blind, I'm talking about real life but this, to me, is the key to really understand what message Neil Druckmann and Halley Gross want to pass to the players.,Thanks for your time,10/10
683) I loved the first half, the second half was ehh, didnt really enjoyed it, there was only one part of the game that I hate it, just one, but the gameplay was really fun, the story was good in my opinion
684) Amazing game. I think naughty dog took a risk and came up with a great sequel. The graphics is insanely good, which made me wish I have ps4 pro and a 4k TV. Great characters and story as well. I think it gives players the opportunity to see different sides of a story and see the grey areas in this universe. Thank you to naughty dog and the team, congrats on the game.
685) This game is a masterpiece that has taken the narrative-based games to a new level. If you don't see everything as binary good/bad and you play until the very end you might end up really appreciating it.,The graphics are top-notch with insane attention to detail, as expected from Naughty Dog at this point.,The mechanics are relatively simple, resembling the core mechanics from Part One with a few extras. Both them and the difficulty options make the game customizable for various playstyles. A ton of accessibility options.
686) Don't listen to the haters. The story is so well written and thought out. One of the best game experiences I've ever had. Might even top the original for me.
687) It's been a while I didn't finish a game. I get why some events might upset players but IMHO, this is a masterpiece, game play, story and cinematics.
688) I am not going to spoil anything in this game FYI. I can understand why some people might be upset or dissapointed by this game, however I went into this with a completely open mind, with no expectations and I have to say, I loved it.,There were a few pacing issues I found towards the last quarter of the game but these issues didnt last long. From the story to the characters I found everything very engaging and got fully immersed in the world created by naughty dog.,I believe this was a very worth while addition to the original game and believe you should play this with no preconceived notions. Go into it blind and accept everything for what it is and I'm sure you'll have a blast getting lost in this highly detailed world and it's realistic take on the human condition.
689) Awesome game form the beginning to the end, a roller coaster of emotions. The way Joel dies to graphic and the mechanics of the game are better than the first one.,The crusade of Ellie finding Aby I loved, then the Abby’s story help us to understand the base of this new story.,The two end fights are so emotional and brutal!!!,Simply MASTERPIECE 10/10
690) I think, that it is the Best game that have ever Come to ps4,It the most sadly project i have ever played
691) Superb masterpiece!!! It transcends what a video game is. I hope there is more to come with the same quality as always. In fact this is not even a review,  I just came to thank everyone involved with a HUGE THANK YOU for this AWESOME experience, ok?
692) The only gave I've ever played twice and I am writing this having just finished my Survivor + playthrough.,,The graphics are the peak of the generation and whilst the game mechanics haven't changed significantly from the first game (if it ain't broke don't fix it) little additions such as the ability to crawl and hide in long grass, without them being overpowered, are good.,,That's the obvious stuff. What everyone came for was an emotional rollercoaster, for which the bar set for the gaming industry in Part I. There has been significant differences of opinion on the direction the studio took the plot, and sadly not all of it polite, but I for one found the story tugged at my emotions just as much if not more than the original. It is darker and more brutal than Part I, with less down time for your emotions to level off, and no game has ever left me as shell shocked upon completion or stayed on my mind for so long. Second time round I found additional moments, and the epilogue may have resonated even more after so long in this world, where I could stay for many more hours.,,There was undoubtedly a 'handbrake turn' halfway through which threw me for a while, and it evidently hasn't worked for everyone, but I found that it was a fresh direction and used the gameplay to tell the story more effectively than a couple of cutscenes would have. We see many characters make decisions which may frustrate the player, but in my opinion worked within the character that had been constructed in the game.,,Some side characters could have used fleshing out more, along with some other aspects of the lore in general, but at circa thirty hours as it is I can understand the balance that Naughty Dog came to.,,Overall, a nigh unbeatable experience that for me has set the bar for the next generation to surpass. The story will not work for all, and I hope that fans can debate in the appropriate manner, but I will take this over a rehashed Part I, predictable trope, or absolute black and white, any day.
693) loved it. the world is brutal and ruled by sociopaths and those desperate to survive. This is the only way it could have ended without doing a disservice to the mythology.  It's a technical masterpiece that begs people to look outside their comfort zone and outside their perspective, an increasingly challenging request these days.  Bravo Naughty Dog Team
694) Why do you hate this game tho? They said that Ellie would be the main character. I know Joel murdered brutally but the story connection was awesome. The graphics? Man this is the best I've ever seen. Those you haven't played the game why do you make comments? I don't get it. How can you give 0 bruh? This game will be the game of the year just saying... Suck it haters lol
695) It is a deep, diversified game. In this game, it would get you experience enotion and thinking value and humanity. Lets be honest, you shouldnt expect it has happy ending or main character couldnt die because he is main, when the setting is apocalypse. To some extends, this might not be a good or typical game. It is art. It is innovative in game industry and I honestly think it deserve at least 9/10.,,Other than story, the atmosphere, music and gameplay really stress you out. And thats what ND intended to do.,,I recommend ppl give it a try by yourself.
696) amazing game i love the story of this is briliant and genius i cant wait for part 3
697) I loved this game. I've never written a review for anything before. Not a yelp review, or an amazon purchase, nothing at all. But this game. My god. I honestly don't know where to begin.,,I would be lying if I said that I wasn't disheartened when I found out people were bombing this game on review sites, in some cases before people had a chance to even play the game out in its entirety. And I suppose that's partly why I'm writing this, but I digress. Let's get into it.,,I loved TLOU, and I can honestly say that TLOU2 was even better. Make no mistake; I was pissed when the anti-hero was initially introduced and did the deed that must not be named. I put down my controller after it happened and contemplated whether or not I even wanted to continue playing. But I'm so happy that I did.,,Naughty dog takes you on a journey in this game, one in which you start off absolutely despising a character, and initially you feel that this hatred is wholly justifiable. You want them dead, and by Ellie's hands no less. Or maybe you feel like it should never have happened in the first place, that it was just a trite plot point intended to illicit superficial emotions that doesn't make sense or go anywhere. I know I did. I couldn't see how naughty dog could redeem this character, ease the pain of what happened, or in any way provide some kind of resolution that would be satisfying enough. But the story goes on, whether you want it to or not. And boy does naughty dog deliver.,,I don't want to spoil anything so i'll try my best to be vague, but the journey you go on with Ellie and her nemesis breaks you. Like, it seriously messes you up. The supporting cast is brilliant, each serving as not just a means to further the plot, but to also change and help develop the main characters' psyches in a way that doesn't feel forced or superfluous. And I appreciated the diversity. I'm not straight, or white, and it was nice to see some representation. I NEED to stress, however, that I never felt like it was heavy handed, or put in the game just to appease the SJW's or whatever. They served a purpose, supporting the main characters growth, allowing them to see that the world isn't black and white (no racial pun intended).,,Both of the main characters are instinctive, their decisions often rash and fueled by revenge, and it takes time for them to realize that the path they tread on may not lead them to where they want to go. They make mistakes, they falter, but you root for them - both of them - because you genuinely care for them. You mourn with them when they suffer loss, and you cheer for them when they overcome the most dangerous obstacles. These characters are not coins with only two sides. They're multifaceted, complex characters that yank you from both arms and don't let go until you're emotionally exhausted. Eventually, the lines blur. Who is really in the wrong here? Is there even a "right"?,,This is where I throw my hands up in praise for naughty dog. They shove you into a long, painful, beautiful, traumatic, heartstring-pulling journey, and just when you think there can't be any more to it, they shank you and then quickly patch you up for some more. This game was an emotional journey, one I couldn't stop thinking of for weeks after I had finished it. I'm almost ready for a replay, maybe in a few weeks.,,Finally, a few words on the cinematography and gameplay: gorgeous and fluid. That's all. Play this game. Keep an open mind. I hope you will enjoy it as much as I did.
698) This game is amazing, fantastic graphics and incredible details, great gameplay, even if it's not the best it's exactly what we wanted, if it was any different we probably would not like it, The story is great even if it is very uncomfortable and may not be a game for everyone.
699) It's Just beautiful, and has such a wonderfull story, painfull but still the best game i ever played.
700) This one has absolutely changed my gaming life forever. I was not expecting it to be so emotional and yet so good. I was blown away throughout the whole experience. It's been two weeks and I'm still depressed and talking about it with everyone around me.,,Not having a happy ending doesn't necessarily mean it's a bad story, i personally care more about the emotions and what i get to reflect after the game over and I felt wrecked, emotional, a cry baby and i love it cause a get it.,,Such an amazing experience: love, redemption, revenge, consequences, hate.,10/10
701) The story is divisive most people won't like the story but it makes you feel empty and depressing. But the gameplay music and combat the story telling is top notch. Kudos to Naughty dog for this amazing experience. I couldn't get over the music Gustavo is a legend.
702) I honestly don't get why some people hate this game so much.... I loved every minute of it!  Maybe it's not for everyone, but to me this is as close as a perfect game as you can get.  On the technical side it's amazing but it's really the storytelling that makes it so good!  I have never been so emotionally affected by a game, from the start to the end. Don't let the bad user reviews stop you from playing Last of US 2, this is the best game I have ever played!
703) It's just Perfect! What did happening was just the life cycle... It is a very good game!
704) I loved this game, visually stunning and enthralling I would recommend it to anyone.
705) I'm really impressed with the amount of stupid, Crybabies or homophobic people in the reviews of this game, first of all, END the game before commenting on it, do not cry at the beginning, second, those who criticize the game only for the relationship between Ellie and Dina, if Dina was a man no one would say anything, is it such a problem that she is a woman instead of a man? seriously is there a jerk complaining about ellie and dina doing it in the beginning. The game has an impressive playability and an impressive story, it deserves a lot more than a 5.6 given by crybabies, and I'm sure that at least 40% of the bad reviews are people who really passed the game and didn't like the story , the rest are crybabies and homophobic people, and for those who think that the game wants to make you think that ELLIE is the bad one, what it tells you when you use Abby is "Abby had a bad time too" no "Ellie is the bad one" and yes , you are left with the desire to murder Abby, but what happens in the end is not that ellie considers that revenge is wrong, what happens is that ellie calms her trauma of losing his patern figure, and also, in my opinion, Abby gets also his deserved , it would have been great to kill her but to stab her with a knife 3 times, fill her with bruises and fill a half of his lungs with water AND also she was malnourished, is close enough to her death, the game is very good and recommended, the thing is to understand the game and story, don't be ignorant because a characters death or a gay relationship, 10/10
706) The best game in this generation. Amazing expierience, brutal but beatiful world
707) By far the best game I’ve played. Graphics are amazing, the story is compelling and makes you question your own morality, music is great, I can not recommend enough
708) I feel so sad when completing the game, just want at least another 10 hours to watch the beautiful story. TLoU2 is so far the most attractive game to me, I simply love every part of it. The plot, characters, graphics, music, the fighting system... I love Ellie so much and especially the love story between Dina and her. It’s so hard to hate Abby after the game forced me to put in her shoes.
709) This is one of the best games I ever played. Everyone should try it out and think about the things that happen.
710) Now that I've finally been able to play the game entirely, I will say I really enjoyed it. The game is not only creepy but also beautiful,and at times has some resident evil vibes going on.. the story line held up like the first game.,I do think people would enjoy it more or would want to play it, if they were more open minded to things that are different.
711) Don't listen to the bad reviews, this game is simply fantastic and ticked all the boxes. A masterpiece deserving of the high scores the critics gave it. What an experience!!!
712) Haters can hate all they want, this game was a thrill of a ride, it is really the peak of naughty dog imo. And if u didn't enjoy because of the decisions they took with the story, well suck it up.
713) I don't understand the negative reviews. The story was intriguing and nuanced, mixing morality up to the point of not really knowing how to feel, but forcing you to feel regardless. The game-play and visuals are solid. Maybe I'm missing something, but I enjoyed the game thoroughly.
714) Amazing game! Everyone must play. At the beginning I was upset playing with Abby but after a while it all made sense. Good ending, cryed a lot :D
715) Really loved it. Don't listen to the widows and see for yourself. I had an amazing time getting the platinum.
716) The best game i ever played, this game must think you about what you done .
717) Defiantly one of the best experiences I had this year. Emotional roller coaster. There are questionable decisions in the script which made lots of people hate the game. Did this decisions made game worse? No, they just fired up those who expected same story we were told once. Back then in 2013 we've got heartwarming road movie. In 2020 creators made a grown up drama about hatred, revenge and loss. It's a shame this game has  such a low user score. I'm sure history will make justice to this game.
718) I didn't like so much of the history of this game, but all the rest it's almost perfect, u won't be disappointed buying it.
719) The Last of Us 2 is the best survival-horror game. The graphics and the atmosphere strike the imagination, different narrative moves and plot twists keep a player in suspense. It's not just a game, it's an experience, and I'm happy that I had a luck to play TLoU :)
720) Having actually played the entirety of the game, it's a very solid 9 that took some risks that didn't all hit.
721) The last of us part II,To me the last of us part 2 is a 10 out of 10 first off and the most obvious points the game graphics, the aesthetics, the environment and the smoothness of the game. It is incredible how a game can be so immersive in those aspects.,The second point is game mechanics, of course the last of us won’t have the type of mechanics God of War has, Kratos is a God and Ellie is a simple human that doesn’t even have military training. The game tries to be as realistic and true as it can be. That’s why mechanics couldn’t be as fun as some people expected, the thing is it’s actually fun, violent and exhausting. The improvising factor is outstanding, every time you are in tough situations it’s incredibly rewarding knowing that you could’ve died but somehow didn’t. Responsiveness is not as great as the first game but it was meant for it to be realistic. Finally the most controversial topic is the story. The sequel is a gigantic rollercoaster of emotions. The start is slow but when you get to the 2 hour mark things get really spiced up. The game serves its purpose by making us feel those emotions in a way I’ve never felt or seen before. This game is not fan service at all and I don’t really know what people expected from this universe of tragedy and sadness with little glimpses of happiness. As most of us, I didn’t want many things to happen but the game forces us to do things that are morally dubious and maybe things that are correct we don’t want to do. No character deserves a good ending because they’re not special, they are not superheroes or characters from a love story, they are normal people, just like you and me. Whenever someone says the game is about revenge is wrong, they’re actually not getting the point. This game is about perspective and the path of redemption just as the first game was with Joel, from loosing his daughter and becoming a dubious moral person to becoming a loving and caring person. Abby’s path is a mirror to Joel’s. The fact that they save a kid and travel through America to find a destination is an example of it. I was an Abby hater even before she brutally and disgustingly killed Joel, I even let myself die a couple of times before knowing what was her motivation. Even after I didn’t like her, but as time passed I reflected and understood her, the fact that I didn’t want her to die at the end because, first of all, she spared Ellie’s life twice, seeing her point of view and making me feel empathy is amazing (props to the developers), even after killing the character we loved so much. Abby is not a monster or a completely terrible person. She is just as gray as Joel, or Ellie or any other character we know. Even when she was about to “end it”, you could see her face doubting what she was doing, hearing Ellie scream desperately. I’ve seen many reviews stating that characters are not true to themselves, but you know, 4 years passed and they were living a really normal life without even having to deal with others. Joel for instance became a softer and older guy, he actually didn’t completely trust the WLFs. Tommy lost everything at the end, literally everything (her wife, the possibility of saving Jesse, his brother, his ability to walk, one eye, his complete revenge, and the list goes on) Ellie had her PTSD eating her from the inside, with the impotence of forgiving Joel and not communicating what she felt or thought, these are some reasons that on why she decided to leave her really loving and stable family. At first I couldn’t get why she was giving up on all of that, knowing the consequences, but now I completely understand her and the fact that many of us don’t even know what it’s like to have such a trauma is near impossible to understand  why they act in such a way, while developers conducted research, talked to experts and people that suffered from it. For what I can see people felt so empty and had a mix of emotions at the end, and that was the end goal of the game. I don’t think anyone likes it or expects it, but it is what it is. I strongly believe that if a Movie or a TV show or a video game makes you feel such strong emotions that’s what makes it so special and non forgettable. This game made people including myself, start yelling, hating, crying, even being violent. But also made them feel happy and hopeful in some flashbacks and sequences. My recommendation for this game is for you to have an OPEN MIND and don’t expect any fan service, to play it YOURSELF and not base your opinions on another person’s take. MAKE YOUR OWN CONCLUSIONS.
722) Perfect game! Game of year all time,Jogo maravilhoso! Recomendo totalmente!
723) this is the hardest and most emotional game i have ever played and I love it. Is the perfection
724) I had to see it for my own eyes. No way did so many little kids get ass hurt because of the one thing that could predictably happen-HAPPENED, and bomb it’s ratings for it. Fortunately that’s the only thing I saw coming, because the rest of this game surprised the hell out of me! Rating it any less than the first game is... honestly extremely immature and just a flat out lie. The first game was good, but the amount of effort they put into this well-polished game with the gameplay, the graphics, the acting. I hope everyone at Naughty Dog knows this, but from the audience who’s opinion is worth a damn, good job on an outstanding game. And to be fair, it’s not perfect; they overdid it with the gender/sexual orientation a bit IMO and I can understand if you have disagreements on the story, it’s length, whatever. That doesn’t mean “Oh well, now I’m rating it a 2.” TLDR: If you’re a functioning adult who enjoys a good story, give this game a shot. The critic reviews leave you at good odds of enjoying this amazing 9.5/10 game.
725) Ignore the hate spam. Game is an absolute masterpiece and a must-play. People will hate on the story-line and while you can understand some of the outrage, this game goes beyond the conventional norms like the game of thrones first couple seasons did. You never know what to expect and you never know what you’ll encounter next. Graphics 10/10 Gameplay 10/10 Story 9/10.
726) I platinum this game last week, And I Definately say, it's A diffrent kind of story telling, and it's absolutely gorgeous game and master piece in every manner, gameplay graphics is beyound any game in PS4, This game change the story telling, And the Heroism thing, this is the true defination of Survival story telling and There is no hero in this game. All are survivors, maybe that's y people not understanding this things and hete it, they want Only Hero story.,This game nearly hit the mark which l
727) You’re going to get an unforgettable experience while playing this game. Touching story, convenient and updated gameplay, variety of characters and all of them have their own past.
728) This game is AMAZING!!!!! I REALLY LIKED IT! I've never been so inspired by a game. There are a lot of emotions in this game. I was worried about every character. Naughty Dog, thank you so much for playing. I will hope to continue.
729) I'm about 15 hours into the game, so far despite all the negative reviews and comments I read before, i have been enjoying the game so much and I find myself wanting to play more whenever possible. People are saying they hate the story and the image of the new character Abby, I find nothing controversial at all. Don't like the physique of Abby? Go to a gym! Don't like Ellie's sex preference? Well have you been living in a cave? Don't like Joel getting killed? If you played TLOU 1, he did make the tough choice to sacrifice everyone to save his new "baby girl", and he was simply paying for what he did. Don't get me wrong. I love the character of Joel, but it's the story told by Naughty Dog, and I find this nothing wrong at all.,,Of course one can hate this story, but so far I do not find many things that cannot be explained and justified. There were some areas where one may find the story a bit weird, like Yara is okay to have all her Scar friends slaughtered by Abby when they are together, and Abby killing her WLF friends without a wink, but other than these, so far I have been loving the story telling of Naughty Dog. The story is heavy and sad, but not all stories are meant to be happy and bright.,,If you simply expect the very standard story controlling the old characters and kill everyone, this is not for you. But if you have an open mind, this game is a classic and cannot be missed. I can only say Naughty Dog's story telling is superb, even better than the previous generation.
730) Naughty Dog took a bold stance, like anything they do be it in graphics or story. Their agenda is to tell a story worth telling, worthy of a 40-hour long game, not a story for the sake of it. The evolution of the characters were not understood, or relatable at the start. As you play, it earns your respect, your empathy and it claws it back at every chance it gets to, break the cycle of violence. It's about redemption, forgiveness and humanity, not personal, petty endless feud. It's different, very different, but don't dismiss it, love it or hate it, please respect the team that put this together. Like Neil said in an article: 'no one loved the characters as much as we do', do you think they'll half-arse it just to push an agenda? they are just doing it to sell enough games to keep doing it, telling a story, good or bad story. So if you didn't like it, it's fine. if you liked it, its fine. Be respectful, and be kind, if not, you've missed the point of the game, entirely.
731) First of all, just to address the constant "review bombing"... Most of those who have rated it between 0-4 have most likely not even played a minute of the game, they're just going by the spoilers before release because they're mad about it. Well guess what?.. some of them were actually incorrect anyway! I won't do a long drawn out review type rating, but what I will say is that Part II is incredible from start to finish, I actually enjoyed the 2nd half more than the first which I didn't think I would, especially due to how different it is (spoiler free). The graphics are one of the best I've seen on ps4, the facial expressions especially are excellent and really show the emotions of each character. The gameplay itself is incredible, it's just an extension of the original, but made better. The story itself has jaw dropping moments, and then the quieter and more peaceful ones. All in all I would recommend this game to all of the returning fans of the original, as it will not disappoint. What I liked about it most was that at several moments throughout I felt like it was nearing the games end, but then more kept coming, absolutely amazing. My one gripe is actually collecting parts/materials/ammo, this seems to be a bit less responsive than the first game, but we can't have it all!
732) I loved the game. Ellie as a young adult is wonderful to get to know. She validates segments of the population who've been told to hide who they are. She's extremely realistic within that population. As Ashley Johnson said, all the tomboys and misfits can sit at my table. I also loved her relationship with Dina. I didn't want to play Abby at all, so when I reached a point of sympathy and even liking for her, I knew Naughty Dog had done their job. I also like how it set up an obvious opening for part 3 at the end. Gameplay was fun. There were some improvements in weapons and stealth tactics from the first game. Lying prone and crawling were cool. I love stealth, and this game is excellent for that. To all those I keep reading "I'm not a homophobe but" just remember that "but" negates what came before it. I wouldn't have considered you to be homophobes if you weren't constantly saying you aren't. I believe that many have their balance challenged  by two women who don't need men to survive, which is also a huge part of the game's strength. Stop with the online bullying. I cannot wait for 3 and for the HBO series.
733) Niiiiiiiiiiii8cccccccceeeeeee naughty dog Thank youuuu,123456789012382341,And Thank you sony for this games
734) The game has a story which is right up there with the one of the first game.,The gameplay and the leveldesign are the best that i have ever seen and the attention to detail is massive!,But there are some things that are so unique about it:,One night i texted my friend who also played the game and said: "Abby is a really nice person,if you dont think of what she did to Joel". The next thing i was going to say was: "But i am trying to forgive her..." but at the moment i typed it in I was like: wait a minute, thats exactly what Ellie told Joel at the very end. "I dont think I can ever forgive you for that... but I would like to try". In a video about the game i heard the statement: "You play the game, but even more the game plays with you.",With things like above and many others this statement couldnt be more true.,Not only the in game characters are in a conflict, but the player is too with the characters, their choices and the choices he takes by himself.,It takes some time to understand the game completely, but it is a masterpiece.
735) Everyone is bombed from the fact that Joel is dead. But for some reason no one remembers that they wanted to drain it back in the first part. In this case, there is an alternative, where Tess tortures the main character in the game The last of us and then kills. Now remember the first full trailer for The last of Us part two. Ellie plays the guitar and is immediately shown how Joel Miller enters and it immediately became clear that Ellie would be avenged for his death..
736) DO NOT LISTEN! To all the cry babies. Honestly what did these guys expect? Joel and Ellie live in a universe, where everything has litreally gone to hell. This game was so real and raw. About the consequences that came with Joel's decision after part 1. An AMAZING game! With an AMAZING story!! Naughty dog at their best ounce again!
737) Last of us part 2 is a my favourite game it's really emotional and it takes u into another world it tells u that u can't judge a person without knowing their storyline I give it an 10/10 my favourite story mode games
738) This game is a masterpiece. Isn’t for everyone, because isn’t a game to enjoy, is game to feel a mix of feelings through it’s story and it’s characters. If you play it a second time, you’ll be hit differently, because you know everything you’re gonna have to do for a revenge.
739) This is more than masterpiece 7 years of waiting Totally worth it Story/music/gameplay literally touched my soul I'm thinking about it 24/7
740) It's a fantastic story-driven game with a spectacular visuals and gameplay which ending leaves you with a emotional void, so rarely identified with this medium. It's a huge step forward for a way video games convey their story.
741) It may seem like you don't need that much playable hours, but everything is hood balanced in its story, which will make you feel uncomfortable, which you will sometimes hate, but is brilliant in all its aspects.
742) Naughty dog did not disappoint. This game is an epic masterpiece! The game was much longer than I anticipated, and it took me some time to finish. But what an emotional rollercoaster of a game it was!,The story is deeply profound, the acting is brilliant, the action, gaming mechanics are very refined and improved, the variety of enemies is exciting yet challenging.,I totally recommend this game to everyone, one of the best games of PS4 and I can see this being the game of the year and one of the best games that has come out.
743) It truly is one of the best games i have ever played. Everything about it it's just spectacular.The graphics and gameplay are outstanding and the story ripped my heart out.
744) I loved it. The game almost lost me halfway when i had to play as Abby tho. So, i did what i felt was necessary..i stopped playing it for a couple of days after Abby's 1st day. I needed time to let everything sink in a bit. After those couple of days i couldn't wait to get back to the story.,I took my sweet time with this game, and i believe that's the you should play and experience it.,Can't say anything bad about this.,And i don't get the hate it is getting.,This is just another case of spoiled out of touch people who couldn't even write a childrens book, getting angry because the story didn't play out the way they expexted. And if you haven't played the game,  don't even bother giving your opinion on this.,And those who went out of their way to read the leaks ( btw, whoever leaked it, you're a **** for doing that), why would rob yourself of a continuation of a story you've been waiting for, for how long.,And then have the nerve to get angry, and boycot this amazing game.,Some people are just out to get upset about anything these days,  and it's sad as hell.,And those review bombing it, are sorry as hell. 10 out of 10
745) This a without question the best game that I've ever played. It is better than the first game in every way- Graphics, Gameplay, Audio, Story. Looking forward to replaying this on the PS5.
746) What a roller coaster of emotions! The best game I’ve ever played, hands down.
747) I felt a lots of things while playing this game I hated so much then i love it so much it such a weird things to feel
748) Simply Amazing...Incredible graphics and exhilarating encounters...The story is so good that will have you rushing through the game just watch the next cut scene. The story is also so powerful that it will have your emotions all over the place...After playing this game, playing any other game will not be the same.
749) This is one of the best - maybe even the best - game i've ever played. The story is sooo deep and I feel a deep emotional connection two the main protagonist. I also really like the brutally of the game in the case that this isnt just another part of " making all the brutal gamers happy" Yes it is a very dark place after the pandemic. And everyone tries to survive. So that is the reason why everyone needs to be brutal. But you also see the consequences of this behaviour. So there is always a price for your actions. And if you are sadistic and hurt people more than necessary, than your soul or your psyche will take damage. That's an aspect I really like in this game.
750) This game is probably the most beautiful way, visually speaking, to take PS4 to its highest level. Although the mechanics with the first The Last of Us are similar, the level of artificial intelligence has been raised, as well as the realism regarding weapons and combat.,,Sound and visuals play a very important role in transmitting fear, suspense and the feeling that something is about to happen. All this added to the beautiful landscapes that are also in charge of transmitting calm and hope to the player.,,The story is a subjective element. Although there are narrative themes that could be improved on, I think, no matter what happens, you'll enjoy the game.,,I can assure you that it's an experience you have to try, beyond the criticism you may read, it's a game worth giving a chance to.
751) I loved this game - and its storytelling. it made me feel complete sympathy for Ellie and hatred for Abby and the Wolves until the narrative flipped and you saw the other side of the coin. My favourite video game experience in years!
752) It's a best game in this year.,,Maybe you don't like the Ending ,but it is most closing real life!
753) Amazing game. I have zero complaints about the animations of it. Yeah, some of the movements are a bit harsh. And the lighting can be funny at certain times but overall really beautiful game, thats just being nitpicky. I really loved Ellie’s character development and came to love Abby’s character despite what she did. The story came to a very nice end and I could even see a third game being made with this. Really well done, will play through again many more times just as the first one!
754) Hi, the most beautiful game that i never play, i do this comment beacause all the negative ones,,I buy the game and im sure that will be incredible
755) Not sure what peoples problems is but this game is amazing.   Loved what they did in this game compared to last one.   Story, voice acting,  graphics all 10/10.   A MUST PLAY
756) This game is awesome.the last of us part II have special gameplay. Write this story want to be brave.
757) What a brave game! Naughty Dog has all the guts to incorporate the LGBT elements into an AAA level game! Furthermore, instead of serving up to the taste of the traditional gamers, the team tried several groundbreaking attempts, such as to force the player to perceive conditions from an enemy’s angle and try to forgive the characters we hated so much hours earlier. I understand it was a shocking experience cause lots of people cannot simply accept this setting, let along with the fact that people who are indulgent in the gaming world have more or less some mental issues so they tend to seek fun by massive killing in the virtual world. Mostly importantly, TLOU2 is the first game ever in history which has genuinely placed female protagonists at the center stage. You have no idea how much we love Ellie, Dina, and even Abby! Of course, we also love Joel, Jesse, and Owen, the male characters in the game have been portrayed in a gentle and mild way, much approachable than those sexist we are facing in the real world. Thank you, Neil, Haylley and the beloved Naughty Dog Team!
758) Ik many ppl aren’t gonna read this bc I wrote a lot but if u could please do. I do understand why ppl don’t like the game or the story bc while playing it I wasn’t sure about it either but the thing is I actually understood it. The game that u play makes u feel so much emotions that other games wouldn’t and it worked apparently since so many ppl hate the game. While playing it I felt sad, angry, happy, scared, confused and more. I remember I hated Abby so much and I didn’t want to play as her but I’ve actually grown to like her. She did grow as a character, she became a better person. Lev and yara made her better. At the end I was disappointed in Ellie for leaving her family just to get revenge on someone. And when she was fighting Abby I’m so glad she didn’t kill her bc she still has her humanity. At the end Ellie lost everything bc she was driven by revenge, and I think Abby grew more as a person than Ellie bc she learned how to let go. I love Ellie and I’ve actually grown to like Abby. I rated the game as a 10 bc the story is so good and it made me feel so many things that not even other games could do. The gameplay was also amazing and the graphics too. This has to be like my favorite game of all time. I just hope everyone can stop calling the game bad and understand it bc it is a masterpiece just like the first one.
759) The game is top, and it has a bad rating due to the fact that many did not like the ending, because it is very touching, because of this, and the whole Haight in its direction and in the direction of the game developers.
760) The game is PERFECT.....¡¡¡¡¡ Graphics are the best I've seen for years.Gameplay is almost the same.
761) Pure Masterpiece.  Clearly the best game of the ps4 era. I dont even understand the haters. Are they even play this gem, or just watch one video on youtube, and decided they are hate this now?
762) This game was absolutely brilliant all the way through. Graphics, Gameplay and Story.,Sadly, a lot of people seemed to miss the actual point of the story.,It's also obvious there are bandwagon haters as well, those leaving bad reviews that aren't even true about the game. Proof they never played it. Pretty sad tbh. This game was amazing. Played it all the way through 3 times now and Platinumed it.
763) The game is a masterpiece. It shows us that there are no heroes, only humans (including Joel that some immatures defend as someone perfect), each with their own story and different motivations for their choices. The game is rich in details and incredible graphics.
764) Confusing story, masterpiece gameplay. atmosphere awesome, I just hate abby
765) A game that is not meant for immature, closed minded people. Life itself is crazy. A beautiful game. The only low, it is extremely long, Abby's part specially. I would've loved to play more with Ellie.
766) One of the best games ever made!! from the soundtrack, to gameplay, Ai, physics, weather effects,, the game has set the bar visually, as the best graphical game till now. Music is beautiful, environments are breath taking, the gameplay is brutal, challenging and so satisfying. There are alot of haters out there who just don't understand the prequel and what the theme and game world of "thelastofus" is supposed to represent. The story is amazing, continues on the dark themes of the past game, is on movie like quality story telling, amazing direction and surpasses the first game.  This game also pays homage to the first game, where certain events carry over. Also great refinements over the first game. Definitely game of 2020 and possibly game of the generation/decade/century.
767) I've finished the game feeling thankful for being a woman who likes playing videogames and have the opportunity to enjoy this masterpiece of art.,,One of the most deep experiences I've ever had considering every single type of media (cinema, literature, and everything else).,,I was deeply affected by the story and never ever thought that a video game would ever reach that level of emotional intensity. It's bitter and one of the saddest things i've seen in my life.,,This game isn't just for adults. It's for mature people.
768) This was a game I will never forget. Gut wrenching, incredibly emotional, beautiful to look at, ground breaking in it's inclusion of LGBT characters. I am stunned. A total masterpiece.
769) So as someone who found the first part about a year late. Then proceeded to love both story mode and multiplayer for years. Obviously I was longing to visit some of my favorite characters ever. I patiently waited, even when some sad soul decided to leak cutscenes and some parts of the story. I stayed away knowing that making up my mind on any aspects of the game would only lead to dissatisfaction. So I put my trust in naughty dog and with a clean slate played on. This game was tough to love at times. Several times I had to take a minute and put controller down to process what was happening. I felt anger over Joel's death. Sadness over Ellie's loss.then I was forced to play as Joel's killer and I couldn't find it in myself to root for her. The more I played though the more I realized what the creators were trying to do to me. So I played on. I obviously love Ellie. I felt a great sadness when I had to play through her hot headed revenge run. I knew that this wouldn't bring her closure, yet the way the game is made it is so easy to get hooked on becoming this deranged killer plowing through a city. This in a way mirrors how Joel would've reacted before Jackson. All I wanted was to find Abby and make her pay. All the way until the theater scene where Jesse gets killed in such a jarring fashion. I was slightly impressed at the stubbornness of the villain of this game.,Then the coin gets flipped and I have to play as the killer of my father. At first I hoped it was just a flashback. So much so that I didn't even look or scavenge for anything because I was sure my stint in her shoes would be short. Then she grew on me just a bit. After hours playing as Abby I felt morally challenged when it came down to playing against Ellie in the theater. I didn't want to hurt her, but I also didn't want Abby to lose either,The addition of Lev and Yara made me see Abby as a sort of Joel replacement. The reluctant experienced adult who begrudgingly takes a minor under their wing, that would eventually bring them inner peace.,The last fight was the hardest. Now fully immersed into the lives of both of these women, I didn't want to go there. I could easily step into either of their shoes and justify their actions. I love this game. It's a step up from the first part. The first one is a beautiful cliche. This second part is hard,and gritty and real. Especially in the way it shows us how heroes and villains is a matter of perspective.,10/10 Can't wait to play it again and take my time and look in every corner of this fantastic game   I hope they make a part 3 and I would wait ten years if I have to.
770) Last of us 2 is a masterpiece,I have completed the game and it's not one of the best games I've played but is the best game I've played and the gameplay is so interesting and intense and do not believe the bad ratings it's a scam,I really cried when Joel dies but don't hate the game because of it play this game and then judge it and believe me it's a masterpiece.
771) I finished this game about 2 weeks ago and I still to this day think about the game and how the story went.,It really makes you think and it was a brutal, but in my case, really good experience.,It made me feel things I have never experienced in another videogame or no movie/tv-show either for that matter.,I have full understanding that this game and story not is for everyone and therefore the negativity.,For me this is a masterpiece that I think I never will experience in a new game ever again.,Thank you naughty dog for this experience and well done!!!
772) The Last of Us Part 2 is the best example of successful and correct sequel. TLOU 2 doesn't use the formula of original game, Naughty Dog has created absolutely new game, which offer different emotions, feelings and experience.,The thing which a lot of people hate is the plot and I understand why, but I don't support them, because I didn't wait the same story about relationships between Joel and Ellie as in the original game. The first twist maked me cry but not hate game only because of the death of great character. The story of TLOU 2 is very complicated and deep. If you want to feel this game fully, you should play on your own from the beggining to the end and without getting spoilers. It's sad that some people don't give this game the chance after the first twist. I really wish more people could feel this game as I feel. Moreover, I was suffering from depression for some days after I had finished game.,This game is not only about redemption. It’s about self-hate. Ellie hates herself because she feel her guilt over her attitude toward her close person. The self-hate became hate to all world. Also, ND shows the path of degradation and evolution of the antagonist and protagonist and It’s amazing. It allows players to feel characters fully. I mean that how ND make the story about redemption is very creative and exciting. All I want to say that you can hate some events of the story, but you can’t deny its greatness.,Gameplay is ideal, but there is no a lot of new features. ND didn’t create something new and incredible. Anyway, the gameplay is interesting and, what I like very very much, cinematic. Playing tlou 2 is like watching film due to amazing animations.  I believe that games must be aimed at cinematic gameplay.,And, of course, ND’s insane details which cost a lot of crunches, energy and nerves for developers.,In conclusion, I would like to say again that The Last of Us Part 2 is the game which gamers can be proud of. Naughty Dog risked very much creating this plot, but, in my opinion, the result was amazing. Thank you, Naughty Dog for this experience. I am looking forward for TLOU 3 and new IP.
773) If you do not like it, it does not mean The last of us part 2 is Awful game .
774) I enjoyed this game so much, and in my opinion, this is the best game at the moment. Everything about this game is so cool: gameplay with new features, soundtrack (especially ambient, I like it a lot), graphics, atmosphere, plot... I already spend 50+ hours playing this game, and will spend more.
775) The combat , stealth mechanics, visuals and music score are top notch. The story is divisive.... if you're homophobic... but tells a great tale or loss, revenge, and forgiveness.
776) More a transformative experience than merely a technically stunning game, The Last of Us Part II is an epic tour de force of storytelling, believable characterization and a gutsy narrative structure all masterfully employed to render one of the most grueling and visceral explorations of grief and compassion I have ever witnessed. The way story, writing, acting, game play and setting are carefully interwoven to increase the effectiveness and impact of all the single constituent parts is exhilarating.,,This is a tale, an experience, that will haunt you for days and nights, long after you've put down the controller. These people will stay with you, find a place into your heart, and they will force you to reflect upon yourself as well as their actions.,,Everyone deserves the boon of being able to experience this piece of art first-hand and unspoiled. Utterly amazing.
777) Это лучшая игра за последние пару лет. ЧТО БЫ КТО не говорил. ЭТО ШЕДЕВР!,,Naughty Dog !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Thank you for the work you have done. For the efforts, for the love of the fans. This masterpiece will forever remain in my heart, this game, this sea of ​​emotions, rivers of tears and sincerity. I thank you from all gamers in Ukraine and Russia, thank you!
778) Phenomenal game, really gets in your head and makes you uncomfortable. A lot of moments where my stomach dropped knowing that what was coming would break my heart. The POV switch worked very well and made me develop so much empathy for Abby. Gameplay was smooth and fun, and environments were beautiful. I'm so glad to have LGBT representation in mainstream games. Great balance of story, combat, and exploration. I wish I could play it again for the first time.
779) Best game I have ever played, best ps4 generation game, a must have, a reason to buy a ps4 if don't have one yet. Just play it.
780) Neil Druckmann proposed the bad story so that you are part of it so that you feel what ellie felt, sadness, hatred, anger and depression, you were part of the game, you just didn't realize it
781) Ignore the reviews that say the game is meaningless or that it's not solid or that it has a bad story.,The game is a work of art. From start to finish. The story is perfectly interwoven and the time jumps are perfect for understanding the drama behind it.,No game has managed to transform my idea of the characters in such a short time.,If you want a dynamic, psychological, and deep adventure you can't miss it.
782) The realest game of my generation. I felt very connected to the character development and the environment of the last of us. The plot covers all 360 degrees of what I long for in any well written story: emotion. The gameplay is unparalleled. The soundtrack and graphics are fire. Here’s to hoping naughty dog throws up a part 3!
783) The best game with a bitter story I wish the players decided the events of the game like the Detroit game
784) I hate abby for killing joel but after i played as abby i started to like her and l think her relation with yara and lev humanized her,And in the end of story l didn't want ellie to kill her but also l hated her because torturing joel like that!,Now the story aside, I think the gameplay has improved several times compared to the part one
785) For most of the game I was loving it, up until the first fight between Ellie and Abby. They game made me continue to love Ellie, and while playing through her three Seattle days I didn't feel remorse for any of the human's that I was killing. Switching to Abby's story, I personally started to realize that all the wolfs I killed they had someone who cared for them. Now the fights between Abby and Ellie. When the first one begun I was like "oh s**t this is not happening!" Then when Abby begun to start stangling Ellie at first I was pushing the button like normal and then I slowly had to stop, because I didn't want Abby to kill Ellie. The same for when Ellie started to drown Abby. I just really wished that Dina and Ellie lived happily ever after on the farm, and the same for Abby and Lev by finding the fireflies.,,It was a beautiful game overall, I especially love the greenery of the forest for Ellie's first Seattle day.
786) This game does exactly what is says on the back of the box. A masterpiece indeed!!!
787) I feel so extraordinary, The Last of Us Part II's got a hold on me.,,This masterpiece became my most favorite video game of all time. These reviewing trolls full of idiocy and bigotry must be canceled. I bet huge chunk of them never even played it. Decent people who are willing to try out should ignore info about the game as much as possible and play first. Obviously, it’s not for everyone like any other media form ever. Though, in most cases, I can guarantee the unique and unforgettable experience, only if you approach it with open-effin'-mind. Enough said.,,Oh, and I want nothing but to thank, Neil, ND and every single one of them who worked hard to bring us Part II. Eagerly waiting for their next greatness.
788) From the beginning, I know this will be next awesome game from Naughty God and this game is literally awesome. The graphics, gameplay and the story is excellent!
789) Exquisite gameplay, ALL its technical points, level design, scenarios, battles, diversity of situations (stealth, melee, shooter, sniper, survival) and artistic aspects, EVERYTHING borders on perfection.,,At the historical level, where there is controversy, PART II fixes part I. Last of Us closed with a message that must have tormented Neil Druckman: cold-blooded killing of unarmed doctors and nurses.,,This is not Abby's or Ellie's game, it is the PLAYER's game, which leads to a greater understanding of the human race, the concept of the enemy, of the conflicts between communities to establish their myths and rules. The pity that if they have not achieved it with the majority of the players, there is little hope for this humanity, that only greed moves us, the thirst for revenge, and that there is only one me or them. With me or against me.,,(SPOILERS),Part II is a player's journey to a broader understanding for the player that in real life there are no extreme villains or heroes, everything is degrees (linked to the superheroes cards collection in the journey) therefore Abby is not a classic villain role, Abby has suffered that someone KILLED HER FATHER in cold blood. She must fulfilled this evil growing inside her with revenge. Although she completed her revenge, this one later torments her guiding her to the redemption of Lev and her sister's rescue - a great character Lev -, and she ends up hanging in penance. Ellie achieves her revenge too when she is drowning Abby, Joel appears in her mind and looks at her as if saying "stop" (a traffic sign that is constantly repeated throughout the streets of Seattle). Stop this violence.
790) This game needs to be played by those who can understand how the real world works but not by those who always want a good ending.,If you want such games, go play Disney games, leave this game to adults.,You can't understand the game if you don't know what empathy is...
791) This game is just awesome, i cant stop think about this, is for me GOTY easily,
792) I steadily finished the game at 27 hours. I need to make a remark here: I am not against LGBT nor do I particularly adore it. We are all people, aren't we? What I do not like is when instead of telling a story people try to attach some agenda to it and make it look like it was always there. In other words when it is not sincere. Now back to the game.,First thing that you notice is the graphics. It is clearly the best looking game of its generation. I don't need to tell you that at the same time it does not freeze and it does not have loading screens apart from initial one, though it takes a staggering amount of your hard drive.,Gameplay has evolved since the first game: you can dodge, brawl is more viable than in the first game. YOu can craft more things and instead of scarce manuals you have about 5 skill trees with 5 skills in it. All the skills are passive, but useful. Upgrading weapons looks really neat: all modernizations are visible and character performs them real life style.,The most controversial thing is game plot. I really tried to avoid spoilers before playthrough and actually managed to do it. Now, when I have finished the game, I have to say, that the plot is mostly good. The scenes are built in a way that you sometimes left hanging and wandering how this situation ends, but plot drives you through many events leading to this, showing you different perspectives before you see its end. It drives you mad, but in a good way, just like in crime novel when you see many interesting events, but still want to get to the end faster to find out what happens. That is definitely a good pacing and the most story complicated and diverse game for Naughty Dog. The bad thing here is that there are many chapters that you go through alone and it makes them somewhat tedious, because there are no dialogues, no inner dialogue, just silence and action/exploration. There is a reason for that, but it still looks like somewhat step back from first game where characters were always chatting about something.,I felt that the game is somewhat easier on the HARD difficulty, than the first game. Maybe I am just more experienced after beating the first Last of Us. Going back to the LGBT agenda I have to say that it surely does not take the central part of the plot, actually not even near. That is why it saddens me so much to see so many angry reviews where people refer to the game only as a lesbian-agenda-game. It is as if you say that Max Payne is only about f-ng subway. The important part for me is, going back to what I said in the beginning, here relationships are shown in sincere way. which is important for me.,Mostly I have to show respect to Neil Drukmann for making it a non-compromise second part of a two-part story instead of making a standard sequel, that we see every year in October-November.,I think, that most people would love the game, that is only if you are open to new experience, though if you want something particular and feel uncomfortable having something differ from what you expect, you might not be interested. Good luck to everyone reading this, hope you have a great day!
793) Fantastic, incredible game, I'm depressed for weeks thanks to him, the best game I've ever played in my life (believe me, there were few), a true work of art, to those who criticize I ask you to answer me, if the story wasn't that which was going to be? ellie and joel going to avenge dina? do me a favor right. Anyone who didn't like the ending certainly didn't empathize with abby, I know she killed our dear and loved Joel, but don't be blinded by hatred like Tommy, try to understand, the game will become even better if you can.
794) The Last of Us Part II is a beautiful, rich story of pain and revenge that is coupled with great gameplay, smooth controls and stunning graphics.,The team at Naughty Dog took everything that worked in the first game and expanded it in surprising ways. I was kept on my toes as I fell in love with new characters and gained shocking perspective on the characters I already knew.,I cannot recommend this game enough. Furthermore, I imagine the negative review spamming for this game comes from a large community of neckbeards who are unable to cope with their narrow view of the world. Their fragile egos were shattered by the creative direction this game went, rather than it sticking to their myopic expectations. Cheers!
795) This game is litteraly fabulous... The 'reveiw bombing' that this game suffered is really not justified... This Game talks about the human conditions in the case of a mondial pandemic... How can we react with the death of someone you love ? Until when we can hate someone ?? That's ones of the questions The Last Of Us (part II) talks about...,All of the bad comments illustrate well whats is the game talking about... A world with a lot of polemics and hatred...
796) A fantastic game, and a brutal and beautiful story. Easily my all time favorite game.
797) The last of us 2 is the best game i have ever played.. I love this game! I want the last of us 3, NOW!
798) It's amazing how divisive this game is...  I was floored by it.  It consider it not simply the best narrative in gaming, but one of the best narratives in ANY medium.  And while playing I kept waiting for whatever happens that caused so much controversy and hate.  At first, I thought it was Joel dying - but that didn't make sense to me.  Game of Thrones (before the last seasons) killed off tons of beloved characters and people still almost universally loved it.  Was it that fact that Ellie is gay?  That couldn't be it.  We knew that from the trailers and the DLC for the first game.  Maybe some didn't realize it, but there certainly can't be enough people angry at a character being gay to justify so many negative reviews.  Then Lev came about, and I thought maybe it's that - but how could, what quite possibly be my favorite character be hated by so many unless it's bigotry.  But I need to believe there's not enough bigots to account for so much dislike of the game.  No that couldn't be it.  So I kept playing, figured the problem would reveal itself later - but all the way until credits rolled the story just kept impressing me more and more.  I do not understand how so many people dislike it.  It's puzzling.,,I've read several negative reviews, and I just can't seem to see the other side of things.  I assume it's the same for them, they probably think I'm blind or crazy for liking it so much (or assume I'm lying for some reason).  It's baffling how divisive this story can be.  It feels like it's literally a coin toss and you either hate the story or love it.  I guess I consider myself lucky I fell on the love it side.,,But everyone can agree that graphics, gameplay and other aspects of production are amazing.  The only warning I'll give to people wanting to play it - it is a very linear game.  No choices affecting the story, the level design is well done but it is point A to point B.  Which is exactly how the first game was, so if you liked the first game, you'll like this game - as far as gameplay goes.  As for the story, I guess you'll need to flip the coin.
799) One of the best games ever made. Please don't let anyone discourage you from playing it, because frankly most of them are just throwing tantrums for no reason at all, or they just don't want to understand what this game is really about...it is not about Joel or Ellie or Tommy or anyone, it is about a post-apocalyptic world in which people act based on their natural instinct, there is no socially acceptable protocols that they have to consider , there is really no right or wrong in this world. And You get to experience more than one point of view and you get to judge for your self if something is right or wrong. It shows you that it is not a fairy tail, and there are consequences for every action.,-Game play, is 10/10 it can be very challenging, however it is very satisfying,-Graphics, 10/10 graphically it is very well designed,-Story, maybe 8/10 it is very emotional and brutal, you can feel how sick people can be and how no one is a hero,-length, 10/10 although i wanted more game play hours but it is lengthy and very engaging most of the time,-Horror 10/10 it is way more horrifying than the original and now you actually feel how terrifying it can be to live in such a world,-narrative design 10/10 it is very brave in its narrative, it doesn't care about your feelings at all,Over all it is not perfect but compared to other story-based games, horror games, shooter games, infected/zombies and rpg games The Last Of Us 2 is one of the top games ever made,if you are afraid of disappointment, pain and fear this is not a game for you,This game is for people who are not afraid to experience a brave, brutal, dark and bleak story about a world that these characters have to live in, not about some characters that live in an such a world
800) This reminds me of when I saw LOTR part 1 the movie years ago. As a Huge Tolkien fan I was really looking forward to the movie, but also had a huge amount of anticipation and I had very strong feelings how it should play out. The movie left out a few things and changed a few others... I was in an emotional turmoil leaving the theatre when a friend ask me; so what do you think? What’s the score? I gave it first a 7. He quickly responded “ have you ever seen a better film?” At that point I realised I gave it a score based on what I thought the movie was going to be like .. not how or what  is actually was... of course I answered “no”. And gave it a 10.,,Same thing with this game. As a Huge fan of the first game I had a ton of expectations about the game And thoughts how it was going to play out. Did it play out the way I thought it would? No! Did it make the game worse because of that? Absolutely no! Was I heartbroken by the end ? Yes! Were my emotions going hay wire? Yes! Have Any game ever affected me like this one emotionally ? Never! Graphics better? Few! Game play as good? Few!,And Finally! Even though it didn’t play out as I thought it would! Have I ever played a better game taking  all aspects of gaming into consideration? Hell no! Have I ever scored any game with a 10? No. It this a first? Yes! It’s a master piece....
801) This a true masterpiece really can't describe or say about it the gameplay the story and characters and writing and actors just on points feels this game really next Gen
802) Perfect game! Thanks Naughty Dog!,Perfect game! Thanks Naughty Dog!,Perfect game! Thanks Naughty Dog!
803) This game is just amazing. Great story and gameplay is the best thing here besides graphics
804) The only downside to this brilliant game is that it's only 30 hours long. I connected with Abby, contrary to the popular opinion that she is the antagonist. She is the enemy because of killing Joel, but don't forget that he killed her most important person so in her eyes Joel is the enemy.
805) This is possibly the best game I have ever played, the music, the characters, the environments, the story, the themes, the messages all work beautifully in tandem with one another to create this absolute masterpiece. This game perfectly builds on the first while heading in new and exciting directions. Naughty dog yet again manages to tell a heartbreak story with emotional weight that is full of surprises which has you guessing until the credits roll.
806) Yes people are mad at this game, and it will make you mad too. It's controversial for good number of reasons. However it is a masterpiece, both in gameplay and in story department. Play and make your own opinion. Avoid spoilers.
807) Not only Naughty Dog's best game yet, but also the best game Sony has ever realised. It's been days since I finished it and it is still stuck on my head. Masterpiece is a understatement for what this game is. Congrats, PLEASE keep making games like this. This is the closest a game has ever been to a movie.
808) Best game ever! i loved EVERYTHING about it, the story, gameplay, sound, map design and graphics.,,The story really showed how a zombie world could look like, and yall that are crying and saying its bad - always expecting happy endings with butterflies and everyone is happy meanwhile this story we got showed you how fast someone could die, in the first game they showed a perspective about joel being the good guy killing bad guys, but on part 2 they showed abbys perspective.,,abbys dad dies = wants to kill the killer,ellies "dad" dies = wants to kill the killer,i dont get why everyone is crying about this lol
809) This game is incredible..after just completing it I was blown away. The gameplay is perfect. The graphics are amazing and the inner confrontation of playing the character with thier own motives similar to the main character is a refreshing take of video games and narrative.
810) I'd be hard pressed to think of a game featuring a story as engaging and masterfully told. It tells a harsh tale of grief, revenge and moral ambiguity in a post apocalyptic world rife with chaos and violence. Harsh but not dark, as there is beauty throughout the game, in how the protagonists care about their friends, interact with each other, relive fond memories and reflect on themselves when they are not busy dispatching their ennemies.,The Last of Us Part II is also technically flawless, with beautiful exterior environments and top notch exploration and combat.,But this game really shines in depicting characters with real depth and complexity. And, oh boy, it really succeeds in making the case that there are two sides to a story.,No game is perfect, but this one arguably comes darn close. I also give it a 10 to counteract the biggots who chose to bomb this game, either because they can't stomach how the plot unfolds or because they have issues with its inclusive storyline.
811) I'm really not a leftist but I can't believe how butthurt people are because of either too much variety in the characters or how the game is not a Joel & Ellie roadtrip.,Exactly this is why imo it is something more and of the best games ever made. Their relationship is the driving force of the story but it's still about other themes. Of course some story details could have been executed better, but it has still very believable characters with the best animations and world design to date.,,Spoilers:,I think you can only really enjoy this game when you experienced all the characters feelings to a similar extend in real life. And if Abby grows on you or not.,,I really felt for both sides, but was with Ellie till the very end. Many people obviously don't understand real hatred, when they don't believe that Ellie would go again even when her life is perfect. Also, many people don't get loyalty, friendship and family when they saw Joel as a bad man for killing the fireflies.
812) The best game of PS4 (maybe with God of War). The experience was amazing. I am still in shock after completing the game. Everything was amazing: the plot, the gameplay, the graphics. 10 out of 10
813) It kept all the brilliant things about the first part, music, revolutionary graphics, gameplay, voice actors, etc. The story is all about the impact joel did in the first part. All the traumas and all of the lifes ruined he left. But most important it's about regaining humanity, witch this universe lacks of it. Forgiveness will play an important role in this game, something that a lot of people dont seem to understand. You dont have to sympatize with Abby, you only need to understand why she did it and that's it.
814) It's inexplicable how much hate hovers around this game. It's probably one of the most moving, shocking and fascinating piece of art ever made. In every kind of artistic form (and I'm talking about movies, literature, theater, poetry...). I know, there will always be people who don't like Goodfellas cause it's too violent or hate Amour cause is too sad or reject the ending of Hana-bi cause is unfair. But please, don't let them be the majority. Buy this game, play it and use your brain.
815) The Last of Us Part II is a masterpiece. This game require some maturity to fully understand, that's why has so many negative reviews.
816) stentwo,Jun 23, 2020,gameplay 10/10 visual 10/10 music 10/10 atmosphere 10/10 details 10/10 God job Naughty Dog
817) People who rated this game as bad probably were expecting a fairy tale, where Joel would be treated as the hero. We all know he was not, and If this story ocurred um real life, probably the same would happen. By the end of the game I was as attached to Abby as I was to Joel. People who rated this game as bad should not play part 3, cause they'll be more frustraded, since the director wants to Tell us real storyes, with people's mistakes, and not a fairy tale about a hero.
818) The story was shocked and sad to see Joel dead... however what comes around goes around... the way of he dead are too struggling but it’s another fact to show whats the real world now... Revenge is just a way to create another revenge... Abby was not wrong for revenge... and it is also not wrong for Ellie to go for revenge... at least they all paying for the price... a changing make them different however i hope theres some DLC to explore the storyline between Joel & Ellie during the first 5 years... MUST BUY game if you had played part 1 previously...
819) Beautiful game with gripping gameplay and an engaging and divisive story. A game like this only comes along once every few years and it's the kind of game that sits with you long after completion.
820) Amazing game. Much more mature than the first, both in plot as well as the level of violence. I think that most of the people who criticize this game didn’t actually finish it. I don’t see how you could play the entire game and make the complaints that people are making. And if they did, they’re missing the point of the game entirely.
821) Absolutely one of the finest gaming experiences of my entire life. One of the worthiest sequels ever made. Gripping from start to finish, with visuals that stun, and a story that leaves you affected days, and perhaps weeks after finishing it. I hate that so many review bombers have dragged the score down, because so many people are missing out on an almost flawless storytelling experience.
822) A wounderful game.  Dont believe in Review bombing.,This is the best game of PS4.
823) I really don't understand people saying this game was awful.,Every reason people have given for it being bad has just been shockingly stupid. This is by far one of the best games I've ever played and anyone that has actually played it through would agree.,30% of these negative reviews are clearly from people who have not played this game.
824) An excellent follow up to the original (which I happened to play a few months before Part 2 came out). The story is superb, characters well written, excellent gameplay and terrific graphics! Parts of the game were scarier than the first game. Pacing could have been a bit better, but overall enjoyed every moment of it. The ending was perfect (it couldn’t have ended any other way). I loved Naughty Dog’s decisions regarding story and level design and applaud them for taking the risks they took in the game. Probably one of the best games I have played!
825) Painfully tragic and sad.  Perfect for The Last of Us.  The opening of TLOU broke our hearts.  TLOU2 breaks them again and again, but never so much as the end.
826) This is a great game! It evokes emotions and gives new sensations. Personally, I cried almost the entire game. Don't listen to anyone until you play the game yourself, you should feel it.
827) This game is a masterpiece of art and the story of the game is sad but logical
828) The sound picture is very good! But the content is very sad, forced, and has many meanings .....
829) Cool designed, cool written storyline, actually well developed game in every aspects. Thanks Naughty Dog, well done!!
830) This game is Something. Story was fantastic. Actors did great job, and not only actors, designers, developers and others, well done guys thank you very much.
831) Having finally completed the game, I agree with the majority of reviewers; it's a masterpiece in every front, gameplay, graphics and narrative. The game may be bleak, sad, and angry at times, but these are all human emotions, and the fact that a video game makes you go through all this is a testament to NaughtyDog's mastery in game writing and character development. There are so many character moments in the game to share without spoiling much of it, so let me describe one of my favourite scenes in the game. Here Ellie finds a guitar in an old abandoned building and starts playing an acoustic version of Take on Me. It's a stark contrast to all the terrors you just endured in post-apocalyptic Seattle.,,If you ever find the time, I would highly recommend both The Last of Us and this sequel. Ignore all the hate out there and experience the game on your own terms! #naughtydog #thelastofuspartII #sony #ps4pro
832) The Last of Us Part II is a great game and sequel.,While I did have a few minor issues with the story, the overall game is now one of my favorites. Its such a gut-wrenching and heartfelt story. I thought it was a wonderful continuation of the last game.,The gameplay felt extremely nice and is a definite improvement on the last one.,The visuals are absolutely stunning and I can help but stop and look at everything.,If you liked the first game, I highly recommend this one.
833) the last of us part 2,Personally, it is the best game in history. The work that this game created in me had never played any games or movies before. I am very happy to be at this time and I enjoyed this game very much. I have not felt this way for several years and I have never been so affected. I am really grateful. I hope and look forward to the new episode of last of us.
834) After everything I'd heard about this game I expected to be disappointed, but I actually have no idea where all the criticism is coming from. Beautifully crafted story that doesn't come off as torture porn despite some reviews. Yes it's sad, yes bad things happen, it's a post apocalyptic world. It's not going to be sunshine and rainbows. It was a nice and natural evolution of the story with a very meaningful message about cycles of anger and vengeance and learning how to make peace with yourself. Phenomenal game.
835) Game Of The Year 10/10,Story : 10/10,Graphics : 10/10,Gameplay : 10/10,Audio : 10/10
836) The people who rated this badly did so because of American identity politics. Most of them would have never finished the game in the time it took them to review it. They're annoyed because the main character is gay. If you're like me and you only care if the game is good or not, then buy it. I can honestly say that it's terrific. Best buy in a while.
837) Definitelly the very best of exsitsing video games for the current moment. Game shoes to the world how to tell stories. The next step in storytelling and designing players’ experience. Game makes you feel what it needs in exact moment of it’s progress. Brilliant, from the technical side, aestetics, atmosphere, aminations, believeability - every stat is on top level.,Great continuation of a great story was told in the original The Last of Us game.,Must play for anyone who want to see the future of gaming and crafting of experiences.
838) One of the greatest games of all times, I even didn't remember the film in the past few that can be better. Great game differently must play.
839) For the people who are rating with 3 and fewer i could say just one think to u all, start the game all over again. U didnt understand the plot, anything. How could u rate a game like this with 0? I am not a tlou fan but this game is a masterpiece and u all have to thank druckmann who exists. In my whole life i ve never seen a game like this, plot, gameplay, details everything here is stunningly beatiful. Tlou2 is not the game which users deserve, but the game which the people need. Thank you druckmann for existing thank you. This game is the perfection. Play u all this game
840) One of the best games I have ever played. The story is amazing. The gameplay keeps in touch with the first game. Full of twists and turns, emotions, and perfection.
841) The enemy encounters in TLoU2 are tense, brutal, and challenging. The atmospheric music and intelligent enemy AI made me squirm in my seat as I snuck around the environment. I rarely got mad when I died. Instead, I looked forward to approaching the scenario differently. When I had to fight, I enjoyed the combat; however, combat was sufficiently messy and resource-depleting to incentivize a stealthy approach.,,The story is excellent. I don't want to spoil too much, so I'll just say that this game knows how to make you feel the way it wants you to feel. The score, environment, cinematography, and script work in tandem to give the main characters compelling emotional lives. However, some have criticized the lack of choice in certain key moments of the game. Indeed, their were several moments where I had to accomplish a goal of the main character that I really didn't want to go through with. While challenging and fun, on an emotional level these moments were almost painful. But I think that was the point. At the end of TLoU1, Joel didn't give Ellie a choice. So Ellie doesn't give us a choice. She alienates the player as she loses what she loves. Like everyone else in the game, we are powerless to stop Ellie. We can only watch the tragedy unfold and hope she finds the strength to forgive.
842) Greatest game ever. Don't get miss led by those freaky haters. Thank you Naughty Dog, I sincerely expecting part 3.
843) Without a doubt an amazing game! Went it to it cautiously due to the mixed reviews but having completed it I realised all the negative reviews are due to the snowflake generation we live in.,The game does perfectly what’s its supposed to, which is show a post apocalyptic world in all its grittyness and portrays the characters you play and meet in exactly that light.,Revenge is big tone of the game but naughty dog does an amazing job with it and manages to make you (the player) slowly and grudgingly forgive a character you hate so much! This ties in perfectly with the story and that is commendable.,Some people say the ending wasn’t satisfying but really what did you expect... it’s a game about the end of the world, not everything is going to have a happy ending with people dancing into the suns set. Personally i feel the ending suits this world perfectly....,,Talking about gameplay I mean just WOW, playing any other game now feels bland with the mechanics and attention to detail in the world that I’ve been spoilt with in the last of us 2. The game plays so smoothly and fluently just like the first and honestly it’s so impressive that I couldn’t find a single bug which is impressive alone judging by the amount of bugs you see in new games now.,,This isn’t a fan boy review. As I said I came into this game leaning more towards the idea that I will hate it but really I couldn’t find anything my mind was maybe subconsciously looking for to prove my these thought right. The game is another hit and it’s a real disservice and discouraging to developers who dedicate their life into this sort of amazing work and try hard to give you a “real life” story and just not a perfect happy ending like most games today which cater to the snowflakes.,,Play it! You’re missing out if you believe all the cry babies and pass on it!
844) Just finished the game and I have to say that this game challenged me in every way possible.  How they weaved the stories of each character so intricately to the point where as a player I was conflicted on taking certain actions/following certain prompts because of the love and connection I had to a character was mind blowing.  The message of the game was intense and you will question so many things in your own life.  The game play, story line, graphics, voice acting, attention to detail, and music all make this game very deserving of all accolades.  I am frankly surprised at any negative reviews because although the game is darker than the first, you can take away a huge life lesson from it.  It was a ride..thank you.
845) After the first game I doubted they would be able to top the feeling I had after playing through it since that was a whole new level of storytelling in a video-game.,Now, all these years later, the successor makes me realize how talanted these people are. Anybody who played the first game will try this game because of how good the first one was. But  not everyone will like the way things turn out. The way they develop the story to question if ellie truly is the good guy reminds us that that everything has consequences and others are affected by your actions.,The first game truly was the greatest game of all time according to me, but the successor is competing at another level in terms of involving player empathy. If you're anything of a game lover, try this game after you've played the first one.
846) Incredible story, amazing gameplay, fantastic soundtrack, and the best graphics ever. It is a masterpiece.
847) Bunch of self entitled **** that thought that someone owes them any type of story in this game. People and their dumb expectations... Jeez,The game is brilliant. The story is deep, smart and well written. As 7 years ago did the first part, this one pushed the limits of what we expect from a game. It’s probably one of those games we’ll remember for a long time, until Naughty Dog make a third part.
848) TLOU2 is a hard game to play. I ‘m not talking survivor difficulty here. It feels like naughty dogs purpose is to make the player feel. In TLOU the dominant emotions were (fatherly) love, attachment and fear. And It appealed to many if not all. This time around, the main emotions you will experience are hate, anger, disgust and desperation.,No wonder some (many) players have had mixed feelings to put it mildly about this game. This sole fact demonstrates that the game hit right we’re it was aiming.,So yes, the game is beautiful, DA is splendid (kudo to the soundtrack), the acting is without a doubt the best seen in any game so far, the gameplay (e.g. combat) has been notably improved since Part I and the storytelling remains strong.,There are also some lengthy parts and several repetitive mechanics that might bother you sometimes. Not all characters are as charismatics as you d hope, but again, neither are we...,In addition the game (elegantly) tackles sensitive societal topics that will drive some people back, and makes you wonder.,I was left in awe several times, and at the end, of course. I felt like I have never been closer to play an (exceptional) movie.,In short, the last of us Part II hit right in the feels. Are you willing to handle it, that for you to answer. Will you enjoy it, or be glad you went on this journey, only playing it will tell.,In terms of video game experience, TLOU2 will share with FFVII, OoT, MGS, HL2, TLOU1, MGSV, BotW the mighty shelf of titles that made video games and players grow.
849) A great game with great detail and great storytelling.  Not everyone will like it, that’s okay. I appreciated it
850) The best game i have ever played. This is next level storyline with deep consequences all over.,If you dont get why Abby did the what she did, and the same for Ellie, you probably fit in the category of people who thinks Joel is a hero and Abby is the bad guy.,There are no good guys at all, people die for nothing, people seek for vengeance, they only try to protect their own and those who they love.,So, this is a game for mature people, definitely. The violence is extremely graphic, the tension around is always high and I love how the game shows us a different perspective from the first game.,It is heartbreaking watching the conversation between Ellie and Joel the night before he died.,The same way it is heartbreaking to see that killing Joel only brought more killing to Abbys life.,This is the The Last of Us Part II goal: show you how things can look different, depending on which side you are, depending on what you believe, depending on what made you since the apocalypse began.,The goal is to be heartbreaking, in every way, for everyone. Because this is the world of The Last of Us.,And I dont even need to start to talk about graphics, sound effects, fights, cities, the whole thing.,I have waited 7 eyers for this game and it was worth it.,It is amazing to see how a company like Naughty Dog can take storylines and the whole videogame experience to places that most entertainement products could never achieve.,Praying for The Last of Us Part III to the next generation of consoles. Or anything from Naughty Dog, the do not fail.
851) Fantastic game. It improves on the original game in every way. The story may be controversial for some, but I really loved it.
852) The best game of this generation. The gameplay is amazing, the details are unbelievable. The story is great, it has a few flaws but nothing major. A must buy game.
853) Love the way they took a risk on the storyline. I understand the controversy behind it, but in my opinion that’s what makes this game so incredible. They did something different, not like a lot of other games. Loved the way it made you play both sides of the main conflict. Left you on edge the entire length of the game. One of the best games I’ve ever played for sure.
854) I had very high expectations of the game, which were exceeded. Although I had to experience small spoilers before release, the game has silenced my doubts about the time very quickly.,The only weakness of the game was not being able to offer the perfect happy end. But therein lies the perfection of the game, because there is a commentary on violence and revenge, which is shown realistically and comprehensibly from several perspectives.,The game complements the first part perfectly and should not be disturbed by unnecessary "LGBTQ" or "unnecessary deaths" disscusions, which are led by people who didn't play the game to the end.
855) A brilliant game and sumptuous storytelling caught in a crossfire of culture wars.,I have played this through three times, and each time I found more reasons to enjoy it, saw more subtlety in the telling and found more empathy for the characters. The gameplay becomes familiar but not automatic, drop your guard and the game will eat you. A challenge even on New Game +. Don’t listen to the politics, play the game
856) A perfect 10.,Probably only of the greatest games ever made.,I’m just doing my bit to help with all the review bombers out there.
857) This is masterpiece. Don't listen to angry user that dobt get what they want. the game get you back the tlou universe. Back to belove characters. And will break your heart.,Just an masterpiece
858) One word that defines this game is perfection. The evolution of graphics and new elements in the gameplay evolve as well as the story, which proves to be beautiful and violent at the same time, with extremely well-built characters, with well-defined personalities, which makes them unique. The photography direction work is clever when using smooth travellings almost uncut during their cutscenes which make them perfectly fluid, making it impossible to discern when the gameplay ends and the cutscene begins. The art direction of the game is impeccable. Each scene in the game looks like a painting thanks to the wonderful and colorful scenarios that, even in times of urgency, it is impossible not to recognize the wonder of the game world, even in a dystopian setting with a dazzling mix between nature and man. The subtle and striking soundtrack also has a beautiful and important role, as it marks the moments of action and calm in the narrative in a cautious and delicate way. The innovation of some features such as dodge, passwords for safes, skill tree and verticality in the gameplay bring a sense of evolution for both the game creators and the players, which gives more authenticity to the game and emerges the player even more in the world that it is inserted. The story shows in an elegant and magnificent way the consequences of how a simple action can have, the price that hasty decisions charge and how the vision of hero and villain are abstract and depend only on the point of view, all thanks to very well fitted plot twists and explained that it keeps the curiosity and mystery of the story until its end. By inserting the LGBT universe in the story, the narrative gains even more value when dealing with such a current and important theme in a delicate and adorable way. This game is a masterpiece of the games and will certainly mark the end of a console generation as the best game of the decade, just like its predecessor, which thanks to the super dedicated and attentive team from Naughty Dog and the fabulous Neil Druckmann, is an amazing, incredible, wonderful, charming and above all, exciting game.
859) It's great. The combat is impactful and fierce, the stealth is intense, the graphics are phenomenal, it's probably the best looking game over made, and despite what the review bombers say, the story is great aswell. I thoroughly enjoyed it
860) Excellent gameplay, great improve from the first game.,Good narrative, coherent with all that was created in the first game, working with the consequences of the acts.,Impressive naughty dog! Amazing work!
861) The best character development in a video game ever. Game play is phenomenal. I loved every minute of it - even the ending.
862) Great graphics, amazing character-environment interaction, good story, unlike most in the sense that there is no "real" villian only a bunch of selfish humans which is basically real life. Very controversial story but in a good way cause it gets you thinking about different social structures, at least it got me thinking. Also lots of death so that might be a deal breaker.
863) Solid 10, there hasnt been a good game realeased in forever and ONE character death shouldn’t be the judge of the entire game no matter if it was ellie, joel, tommy or even dina. Its still a good game.
864) The story of this game was epic. I found myself enjoying playing as Abby as I wasn't so restricted on combat as I'm with Eille. People who are destroying this game cause of Joel death need a life. Why do you think Ellie gets revenge? Cause they killed her dog? Lol!! It's pretty obvious why she was going to make everyone pay. Not my Game of the Year but Game is on Point.
865) I really don't understand all the hate this game was getting. It had it's bumpy parts, but all in all I thought it was genuinely emotional, meaningful, and worthwhile.
866) This is the best game I have played on the ps4. It definitely doesn't pull punches and makes the story so much more interesting, it makes the world feel more real.,Art is about designing experiences, so the user feels what you intended as a designer, as an artist. Making someone feel something they want to feel is easy. The opposite requires perfection.
867) I just don't get those negative reviews over the Internet. The game is perfect. The plot is great even it has e very sad ending. I'd say, actually, the ending's not even sad but rather complicated... Maybe many people just wanted to play a similar game like the first part... This game is very different from the previous one. There's many good reviews with spoilers, so I'm not going to repeat those words. But in a whole (Plot-Gameplay-Graphics) the game deserves 10 of 10!
868) This is by far one of the best next-gen games. Graphics are perfect. Gameplay has no match when you compare it to other Third Person Shooters. The story is great showing how revenge ruins us. One of the best 2 perspective games ever. If you can't understand complex perspective stuff. Don't play this game. And if you don't play this game, don't write a review about it. Because I clearly see people giving 0 points to the game and I am sure they didin't even play it.
869) I've never been so engrossed in a video game story. I've never been as conflicted by the choices I've had to make in a game. I've never played something so immersive that I dreamt about it. I've never hated to see what happens next but unable to look away. I've never cared about characters in a video game as much. I've never appreciated my own life as a result of a video game. Whatever you think of this game, it will probably be love or hate... but only a game this good can bring up feelings that strong in a gamer.
870) most awesome game but when i ended the game i hated it so much but after some time i loved it
871) Love the chances this game takes with its story. Its a honest look at what humans would do to avenge a loved one. And the tool it takes on the mind. I don't get the hate. Not everything is black and white. 10/10 and thank you to the men and woman who put their heart and time into this game.
872) Didnt play the game, but i have seen lotta youtubers play it..    AND I LOVE IT! The Best game i watched, and will play. EVER.
873) I would give it an 11 if I could.,,A lot of people said it better than I'm capable of expressing, but TLOU2 is a great achievement of storytelling and gameplay. It clearly is not for everyone, but I say that as a compliment rather than a criticism. Better to fail miserably trying to achieve something great than to make the same old wishy-washy narratives, am I right?,,The Last of Us Part II is a mature story, not because of its violence and themes, but because it demands critical thinking and patience (to listen, to engage, to reflect) from its players. It never gives you short, simple answers, rather putting you in the situation of constantly needing to reexamine the characters' motivations and how do you feel about them. The game is never "trying to make you feel bad for being violent against your will", because the game is not about YOU (try and say that to the average gamer) but about deeply flawed people. These characters are the medium for this hyperbolic tale of revenge, love (yes, love, more than hate), corruption and redemption. It may sound odd to say that TLOU2 is subtle, with its explosive arrows, machetes and face-eaters zombies, but the fact that a lot of players seem to miss is that the game is never telling you how to feel about violence, revenge and the characters' decisions. It presents you with a full panorama and then takes a step back to ask: "How do you feel about this?" Considering how the audience have grown used to expect a moral lesson at the end of every narrative, it is not surprising a lot of people didn't know how to engage with this one.,,I've been playing games for almost 30 years now, and I don't remember another game making me think and feel as much as TLOU2. If Part I is brilliant in its conciseness, Part II is masterful in its (organized) mess. I still need to give it some time to "breathe" before making more decisive statements, but I would not be surprised if it became my favorite game of all times. And for that I can only be thankful for everyone that worked so hard to bring this masterpiece to life.
874) It was completely awesome experience both gaming and storyline.. The people who rated low this masterpiece should stop watching Hollywood movies with straight and cliche storylines...
875) I have loved the first one. I think I've played it twice on PS3 and three times en PS4.,I'm so happy that the second opus is as great. It has a very good dynamic, the story is very captivating. The game play is better than the first one. I truly don't understand the hate about it.
876) I had bought into the release day rumors and cancelled my preorder. I reluctantly purchased it and played it all the way through. The hate and negative reviews couldn’t be more misplaced. This is one of, if not the, best games I’ve ever played. Perfect graphics & gameplay. A story worthy of TLOU franchise. I’ve never played a video game as emotionally challenging as this one. A must play.
877) This game is a complete mess of different emotions that ANY game, movie or series made me feel this way in my entire life. I cannot understand how those people crying and giving it a zero just can't see through it and what everything means. Yes, I hated this game at the beggining and stopped playing it, but you just gotta keep on playing to see what it has to offer. Just because the game makes you feel hate towards some characters, doesn't mean that the game is bad. This game is a masterpiece in all of the aspects. Maybe the gameplay stayed kinda the same, but I understand that because it's a game that the gameplay can't change pretty much apart from new infected types and small stuff. The art is and the incredible details through the game are just the best outta there. And for the people saying this game is political or talking **** about the physique, sexuality or gender of some characters, you can come and lick my ballsack.
878) Spectacular. Some quibbles, but extraordinary in all respects. Ignore the trolling, dishonest reviews that follow the same phony formula. Just play this game and enjoy.
879) Naughty Dog, and the crew around the Last of Us 2, are clearly masters at the top of their craft.,,From a gameplay perspective, the game is butter smooth. Every mechanic and control is well thought out, and serves to foster acting naturally in the game. Menus are unobtrusive, and you don't spend much time at all in them. Combat is incredibly fun, and replayability is made higher by a new game+, as well as being able to solve any encounter in a multitude of different ways.,,Where this game shines the most is the story. The Last of Us's execution of the struggle to retain one's humanity in an utterly inhumane world is perfectly captured in the Last of Us 2. While the setting zombie apocalypse always sounds bleak or brutal, unlike other similarly set stories, TLoU2 excels in showing not only the horror of humanity, but the beauty as well. It celebrating that we can truly make life in any world, and also reminding us the depths of depravity we can fall to  when that life is upset. It excels at putting us in the minds and worlds of the characters in a way that no other game ever has. The full story cannot be grasped until it's concluded, and the second playthrough is made so much richer as a result.,,Post apocalyptic Seattle is so incredibly real. seeing one of my favorite cities so incredibly well rendered in a game was fun beyond words. the graphics are of such incredible beauty that I honestly was speechless at points.,,In my estimation, this game is the pinnacle of video game story telling.
880) Like literally this is the best game i have ever played in my life!!!!! I dont understand what you all complaining about? Story is great. And also it is super important for the lgbtq+ community.  Neil nailed it.
881) Oh My good God!,This game is amazing!,The graphics are insane.,Story? Fantastic, how many plot twist!,I have the impression that this is not the end of this adventure yet. :D,People with ratings below 5 have no idea about video games. : )
882) Best PlayStation exclusive ever I know some people don’t like the game but u get what u get It’s not the story everybody wants but the story that need to be told
883) A bold, ambitious story with probably the most complex character development I've ever experienced in any medium. Best-in-class acting conveys a deep, twisted, carefully woven story in an extremely dark setting. It's sad, it's draining, it's frustrating, and it embeds itself in your heart.,,All that, and it's presented to you via one of the most visually stunning games ever created. Additionally, the game play is smooth and rarely gets in your way, and from what I understand it has the deepest variety of accessibility options to boot.,,Am I happy with the way the game ended? No, of course not. I wanted a happy ending for everyone. But sometimes people don't get what they deserve, and sometimes they don't deserve it in the first place.
884) It is absolutely insane that this game would be rated anything less than a 10 out of 10. The gameplay, storytelling, intersection between the two... it’s a masterpiece. The graphics and settings are beautiful as well. I just can’t put into words how big a leap this game took for video games. I just finished the game and I am just sitting here awestruck. I wish so badly there were more. This is not to say the game wasn’t sufficiently long but it was just so gripping that I don’t want to let go yet. Do not listen to the negative reviews! This is one of the greatest, most powerful gaming experiences to date!
885) What an absolutely incredible game. I simply cannot understand the bad reviews. Game play is updated in a major, cool way. Combat/encounters are challenging and rewarding. Story-wise, I have never played a game that has affected me so deeply. I laughed, I sad cried, I happy cried, I felt the full range of human emotion just by experiencing this piece of interactive art. I will not lie, early on there were parts that were tough to get through. But experiencing such amazingly strong, flawed, and ultimately HUMAN characters made it so worth while. The fact that Naughty Dog made me feel and care so much about certain characters by the end of the game is a testament to their story writing abilities. It is a hard game to stomach at times. But what this game lets you experience, and what it teaches and tells you through the process of playing, make it one of the most impactful games I’ve ever played. At least on par with the first... which are some BIG shoes to fill.
886) Awesome game, awesome storytelling, I'll remember this game for a long time. Thanks to The Naughty Dog team and others who gave us this unbelievable, emotional journey. Thanks you are awesome!!!!!
887) What a beautiful story, such a masterpiece. I'm sad to hear about the terrible conditions the developers were under, but all that work really came out beautifully. Truly a masterpiece for me. I kinda see why other people may dislike it, because there are so many ways to interept the plot/story and ending. Personally for me it's a must play. Play it and interept it yourself.,A game that takes risk, that is not scared to hurt players feelings and put them through an emotional rollercoaster. Chefs kiss
888) This is the best game you’ll ever play nowadays.,The gameplay is very good.,Graphics are stunning and no other game can come close to it. Landscapes, characters seem so real that you’re 100% immersed in the story. But the scenario... The scenario is the best ever written in the entire game industry. All the characters are beautifully written. Nothing is left behind. You feel so many emotions throughout the game. Really good and really bad ones. At the end of the game you’ll feel empty because you felt so much. I never played a game or watched a movie/TVshow which won’t leave my thoughts even one month later. And that’s what it’s going to do to you. You won’t forget about it.  GOTY 2020 without a doubt.
889) Fantastic game! One of the best I have ever played, lived up to expectations and enjoyed it just as much as the first one!
890) This is not a game, it is a lifetime experience! It changes all about video games from now on!
891) For me and for more people this is the best game of the year, this game can show us two sides of a story showing to us that is a reason for the things we do, and i think this is the point that the people that low rated this game didnt understand, why joel was killed, and say too that joel death wasnt an heroic death, but they don t se that joel wasnt anymore the main character, and don t see that they are in a apocaliptic world were the deaths aren t the most heroic but some of the death have a reason to happen like joel he killed abbys father but saved ellie its like a necessity to continue the tlou2 because if joel didnt kill abbys father, ellie was dead and it will not be able to have a tlou2 its like a sacrifice to continue and remember billl from tlou "in this world love as only one propose and it is to kill you", but after this i only need to say that the gameplay is awesome the story is beautyful and gustavo santaolala did just the most amazing work
892) This is a brutal, beautiful, ruthless story about revenge and empathy. It takes the story of Part I and pushes it to a unexplored, often times uncomfortable places.,,Whatever you read, whatever you think this story is going to be, I promise you are wrong. The gameplay and story come together to form a thrilling, even exhausting masterpiece.,,I HIGHLY recommend ignoring these bad reviews. Most are poorly thought out, immature takes that do not reflect the actual game.
893) Really great game. Most male gamers have fragile egos and think all women in games are created to satisfy their sexual fantasies, since they can't get any IRL. So, when they see one that doesn't, they rage.
894) The guys at Naughty Dog have gigantic balls! The story is tough to swallow and in big parts very depressing. And that is good. This is not just a game, it is an experience. The game takes a deep dive in what humans are, what we are capable off and how our flaws can misguide us, no matter how good a person you are. Game wise also excellent. They did not change a lot of the gameplay, but tweaked and developed it in good ways. Movement and actions feel dynamic and flow in a natural way.,Don’t get distracted from what you expected from the story or even worse because they dared to show flawed humans or people who are different than yourself. This game shows what games could be and should be, if they want to be challenging. Play it, you will love it. If not, play it again and again. At least you will learn from it, to grow as a human. That says a lot about how beautiful this game is.
895) this is probably the most depressing, but at the same time the  most beautiful game i've ever played. in the end there's only one thing left to say: this is a masterpiece, thank you naughty dog for letting me be part of it
896) This game is a masterpiece. Anyone on here who says this game has a "bad story" is failing to distinguish between a bad story, and just being mad about Joel dying. They may also have some issues with the strong female main characters, and the throughline being a lesbian romance. This game is a masterpiece with lifelike characters, fun gameplay and a compelling story.
897) I really appreciate that Naughty Dog did not just go the safe way and make a game that will please all the fans. I understand that this alienated many but the result is a piece of software that will stay very unique for a long time. Even if I was shocked by many of the events in the story and did not like all of them, I have to give a lot of credits to the developer for making me feel that way. It's a game that will keep you on the edge of your seat until the end credits roll.,,Gameplay and audiovisual design is of course stellar. The game feels very polished and offers a fair amount of challenge.,,I understand that not everyone is happy with how the game ended but at the same time, I think is unfair to rate it so low just because you did not like it.
898) Just an amazing games ! The masterpiece of naughty dog ! My favourite game !
899) Honestly the best game I've ever played. A brutal post apo survival horror with a story line that makes you think - taking it's own turn away from the standard black/white morality in video games. Smooth and long gameplay. This game redefined storytelling, and did it with inclusive characters, it's possible! Keep an open mind and play it, you will be rewarded.
900) What a ride.,One of the best games i have ever played.,,I hated it at first, for the scenaristic turns the game makes you do, but it is an incredible and amazing experience that had let me go throught a lot of emotions.,I stared at the screen for 10 minutes when i beat the game, and thought about it for a lot of weeks after that.,I immediatly wanted to do a recond run, but it is so emotionally intense, that i will have to wait before getting my hands on it again.,,Graphics : 10,Gameplay : 9,Story : 10
901) Excellent game! Lots of details, lots of gore. My favorite game, perfection.
902) Excellent Gameplay,Excellent Graphics,Some people may not like the story but I started the game with an open mind and I actually liked it.,Memorable characters,Overall, an outstanding game which is worthy of its predecessor.
903) A truly groundbreaking experience, the first AAA game that i've played that isn't intended to be 'fun' its meant to test your humanity, If you just let the story take you for the ride and don't resist you will have a great time.
904) I know this game is very controversial but I think the story is very well written. Shows the cycle of revenge.  Gameplay is better than the first game.
905) Great, thank you Naughty Dog for a great journey and game. See you soon i hope.
906) Now that the initial hype has passed and the spoilers about the plot and ending has done it’s victory lap around the internet we can finally sit down and review this game for what it is; a truly magnificent game. This review will be spoiler free for those of you who’ve stayed clear of the hysteria surrounding the plot. Some details will be adressed but nothing too serious. Gameplay: The gameplay is what we’ve come to expect from the power house that is Naughty Dog. The controls are crisp and moving the protagonists around is a pure joy. Nothing feels better than to sneak around in the bushes waiting for an enemy to emerge. The proning function is so well done that going back to the first game actually feels weird. Every movement is smooth and doesn’t feel like an animation. Except for some minor glitches, that is. The A.I. Is also miles better than the original. The human enemies are accurate and quite formidable foes. Some of the larger enemies feels like a treath even late in the game when you’ve maxed out your stats. The infected is also handled really well. One of the few flaws of the first game is that the difference between Runners and Stalkers were quite thin, but this time around they really feel like different species, or at least different stages of infection, and are given very well designed areas to perform. The Clickers are much harder to manouver around and the Bloaters really feel like unstoppable creatures. The first time you meet one is handled like an unceremonious boss fight. The additional two new infected feels like natural additions, even though you only meet the second one once. Luckily.,Design: This game looks good. Like, really good. This is as good as PS4 can get. Of course excluding Ghost of Tsushima and the yet to be released Cyberpunk 2077. The areas you play through is very well handled and it looks like Naughty Dog learned a lot from Uncharted 4. The level design is stellar and there are few games who can front that magnificent open landscape and terrifyingly claustrophobic hallways as good as The Last of Us part 2. There are so many ways to manouver around each sequence and it really encourages you to try each setting multible times. It’s really satisfying trying to pick of enemies one at a time once you’ve learned the layout or going balls out Rambo with running and shooting. Naughty Dog has also included so many small details that you’ll probably never really see if you’re not looking for them but really adds to the whole experience. This game also has some really gory moments that feels quite shocking. You never really get used to the grafical image of an enemies’ head’s interaction with your shotgun. Story:,First of: This is not a happy story. It’s not meant to be a happy story. This is a world where happy stories are a rarity and every step along the way feels like you are stepping deeper into an infected rabbit hole. We pick up the pace 4 years since we last left  Ellie and Joel. Things have been quiet and prosperous in the town of Jackson but after the events that shocked fans of the series we follow Ellie as she is going for revenge. Her journey takes us to Seattle and down memory lane and we really get to know her motivations and follow her relationships. She feels like a real person. She acts like a real person and she is a deeply flawed and conflicted character. On the other hand we also play as Abby, another broken character living in this post-apocalyptic world also searching for revenge and vindication. We get to know these young women whether we like to or not and the balance between what’s right and wrong are definetly tested in this game. Neil Druckman and Naughty Dog has gotten a lot of hate for their choices but this is a game that not only tests the characters within the game but also you as a player. The story is as good as it gets in a video game and multi-dimensional protaginists like Ellie and Abby are very hard to come by. Both of the characters have their own arc and fits well in with the tone and the world of The Last of Us. This is an exceptionaly well made game. This game will stay with you long after you’ve played it. The story will still sit with you the same way a good book sits with you. This type of game only comes once or twice between each platform generation and you don’t want to miss it.
907) Amazing graphics, gameplay and story. I loved that they took the risk let us play as abby and tried to make us connected to the character, and it worked for me, which made the ending hit hard for me.
908) it was so saaaddd all of it!!,But I'm still expect next series of last of us!
909) I honestly think people need to take a long hard look at their lives.  Also, you should not be able place a review if your IQ is lower than the certificate of the game you are reviewing! Whilst this is not wholly original it is incredible to look at, performance is exceptional and some if the set pieces are spectacular. I seem to be in the minority but I loved the character arcs and the way that Abbey and Ellies' stories blended together.  I was sad to finish it.
910) This is the most epic game, that I ever played. The ND team has done a really good job, designers, programmers, actors, and actually every one of them. Thank you guys for this fantastic journey.
911) Goty, I don't know what else to say.,First of all to get things out of the way Tommy had already said Joel's name to Abby since he is more innocent than Joel so, that is why Joel said his name, it's not bad writing, Abby already knew that he was Joel so it wouldn't make sense if Joel refused to say his name. People can't deal with a story where the main character doesn't get the revenge. I bet everyone who rated 0 when they started playing Abby's side though "I will kill her so I will not hear her side of the story" resulting in not liking her, so when Ellie didn't killed her they got really pissed of. I guess people can't have a different game, they like when everything is predictable
912) This’s definitely the best ps4 game. So adult topics are raised in this game that it’s simply difficult to imagine this in games. It’s games of such a level as The last of Us (both parts) that make the gaming industry not just an entertainment sphere, but bring it closer to art. The plot will definitely not leave you indifferent. 10 out of 10
913) No game has the emotional impact of The Last of Us Part II.  An absolute masterpiece in gameplay and storytelling.  Please ignore the negative reviews and play this game!
914) Absolutely incredible game. Story and gameplay reach a whole new level of excellence.
915) This is one of the most challenging games to play. Not because of the snappy mechanics, not because of the intricate level design, and not because of the sinister AI - but because it will break you down. Emotionally. Morally. The risky, unconventional storytelling will push your boundaries beyond gaming. Most people will probably tell you to keep an open mind when playing, but keeping an open heart is more important.
916) The Last of Us Part 2 is a tragic tale, but it is one of the best games I have ever played in my life, the story, the combat, the gameplay, graphics, sound design, and soundtrack were all near perfect. Most people who are giving the game low scores such as 0 or 1 have not actually played the game, it's a shame they will never move past their over-inflated ego and give the game a chance before going on to hate the game because of the actions of Abby or Ellie. I urge you to play throughout the game, in no ways is this game a happy game, it will make you angry and sad at many times, but it has some of the best story-telling I have seen in any piece of media.
917) Probably the best hand-crafted animation and environments I've seen in a game. Sometimes a bit of a drag and some guns have an arbitrarily low ammo capacity (3 rounds in the bolt-action rifle) but other than that it's worth playing
918) I know that everyone is pissed off about Joel dying and that everyone is pissed off about the violence and that everyone is pissed off about dogs being killed. But it all honesty this is a video game and game with a story that can blow most games out of the water. I loved it! I felt for all the characters including Joel. I think people are being babies because story wise, graphics wise and playability this game deserves game of the year . Stop being babies it's a game and actually look at the story  and realize it's good or keep sucking on your mom's tit if it's too violent for you
919) This game is perfect in what Naughty Dog intended it to be: a deep and personal story.,Many people will feel like the story is inconclusive (and maybe they are right), but if there is a part 3, this game will be remembered as a great sequel. The gameplay retained the formula of the first game, and that is great.,And for the graphics part... marvelous.
920) There is nothing like this out there, this game is art. Everything about this game is well crafted and executed properly. In all aspects it's ahead of it's time and will be remembered as a masterpiece.
921) Best game ever. The Last of Us Part 2 is by far excellent. The story is not for everyone for sure but amazing none the less.  Seriously play this game for a really different type of story!  If you have troubles with this game, just stop for a sec and put yourself in Ellie's shoes. You can read Ellie's journal to see what she is thinking during the course of the game.,The gameplay itself is a bit of the same as the first one but now it feels a bit more realistic, combat is way more challenging and even greater in higher difficulty. But you can decide if you want to have certain aspects of the game be from lower difficulties such as supplies or enemy AI, but you would definitely miss out the experience. Visuals by far the best so far.,,The game itself is a mirror of the first one. The first one introduces us to this terrible world and shows us the kindness and innocence in it. Part 2 on the other hand lets you experience the worst of this world without holding any punches back.,,This game asks itself: What if one of your loved ones suffered a horrific act of injustice? How would you feel? What would you do to seek justice? How far are you willing to go? How easily would you go down this road? and finally (in terms of the first game): After everything you've been through, everything that you've done. Was it worth it?,,The story will make you feel such hate against the antagonists, and just as in the trailer I even told myself that I would find and kill every last one of them. The first half of the game you carry around this mindless sense of hate and anger just so at a climatic point you are then stopped. Then the game continues at the beginning of the story just that in the shoes of the antagonist.,Of course, as everyone this totally seems like a bad joke at the beginning and you completely hate the idea but you are now stuck with the antagonist. While this might seem horrible is actually what makes this game great.,By the time you start the antagonist’s story you hate her, and probably will even die on purpose. But as the game keeps on you get to see it as person rather than this all evil entity. And that’s the point of it. Her story is not meant to make you like her but to humanize her, and all the people you were hunting at the beginning. You learn their likes, their dislikes, their fears and you see that as everyone she is capable of horrible and selfish acts but also of the kind and selfish ones too. Just as in real life, not everyone totally bad sometimes we just can’t see it, or even worse, just don’t care.,Both protagonist and antagonist are opposites yet equals.,The clash between both is my biggest problem but it makes you see the protagonist’s darker side aimed at you.,By the end you will meet yourself with sort of a fake ending and then get the real climax of the story. And the brutality of it does not give me words to describe it.,In a nutshell: the story is kind of watching someone you care for, get hooked up on a substance and watch them hit rock bottom and hope they change.,Again, this is no joy ride although it has a few nice moments.,And after discussing the game what you can take is the obvious message of the game but also that: A selfish and violent act is contagious but also a selfish and kind one.,By the end I was faced with mixed feelings and tears.,Some might have an issue with deaths in this game, saying they are not worthy for characters, and for that I got to say, that’s death. If you have a problem with it then you don’t remember the first game, and the game makes their characters really realistic in this sense. No one is special, you can go however and whenever even if you are the protagonist.,,Finally, I would like to say that Naughty Dog did it once again and made an amazing game. They told the story they wanted to, however they wanted to and this game is honestly a masterpiece hands down.
922) Had to make an account, because I’ve never seen as many p******s complain about a game in my life. Honestly feel like the majority of those that have left a bad review do it just to **** on the game for no reason. It was a great game. Evokes emotion. Graphics were **** fantastic. Ambience and tone made me not want to enter rooms at times. Yeah, it’s ****ty the way things started, but oh well.
923) Never experienced a more intense game with such a great story across human nature and all the darkness we are capable of. Love it!,A very dark game but just brilliant
924) I think it was beautiful. They made you do things you didn't want to and feel things you didn't want to, you were uncomfortable much like you are in life a lot of times but it was perfect. They had to align the sequences the way they did to make you feel like you did. From anger to confusion to empathy to a sense of relief, hope and forgiveness. It was just perfect.
925) the game as a story is great but only as a story not as a game, I don't like that people say they screwed up just for killing Joel, Joel's death was necessary to feel hatred in Abby And now he is not going to see a dlc or another story to know what happened to tommy, dina, ellie
926) I am NOT a lgbt activist. I am not a woman. I am a person of conservative values ​​and heterosexual orientation. White. It looks like in this case, you need to say right away, because everyone is suddenly very worried about it.,Maybe the game is not 10 out of 10, but I gave this rating only because of the idiots who gave 0 or 1. The game is very good despite all its controversial points. A deep story about important things, live characters, strong gameplay, beautiful design and game world, great music. Druckmann well done.
927) A dark and gritty emotional journey, with a great story, soundtrack, graphics, and gameplay. Couldn’t have asked for a better game.
928) The story of the last of us part 2 is just as amazing as It’s characters, such incredible emotions while playing this game.
929) Excellent game, ignore all the haters, they are mad for their own political reasons. The game itself plays smoothly, the story is interesting, and it’s combat and shooting mechanics are fun.
930) this game just like life lesson.gameplay and details are unique.the story is phenomenal.best game of this generation for sure.
931) My real note would be a 8/10 since some commands are mixing up sometime and the scenario deserve to be a bit better on some points. But since some people chose to put their brain on a table and review bombing this game because of some leaks of the scenario while others are just mad on it. I felt like I had to put this note. This said
932) The game is the best that i ever seen. Gameplay is good because they add new functions in stealth like crowling in the grass. Characters moves are smooth and realistic. Plot is genious but not everyone can understand it.
933) For me, both The Last of Us games are the end level of video games. And I see the game as a masterpiece consisting of both games and not each part on its own. For me, the characters, the story, the character development, the atmosphere, brutality, music and sound effects and graphics of this game were really the best I have ever played in my life. Of course I get why many fand are disappointed about the first part of the story - of course it killed me as well and was like: for real? Now I have to play Abby for hours and hours? All I want to do is kill ber and take revenge. But somehow ND managed it to make her appeal like a good human bei g so in the end I really didn‘t want Elli to kill her. Also ND showed us that pure revenge is destroying more than it gives you even if you feel facilitated for 3 secs. For me this game is a masterpiece and I‘m kinda sad and frustrated that NO GAME (probably until TLOU3) will ever come close to this masterpiece endlevel of story telling and video game. Man I am greatful to be alive and being able to play TLOU when it was first released. Thank you with all my heart ND and all the other teams who have participated in this game - you changed my life!
934) Don't listen to any other review except this one. This game is one of the best games of 2020 indefinitely. This game might be the most immersive games of all time with the fluid gameplay (headphones and 4k are recommended but certainly not required) the stealth is fluid along with the last game.,This game is graphic with a capital G. The way Ellie slashes the throats of the enemy is extremely realistic. The atmosphere is absolutely top notch along with the stunning graphics that will have you trying for screenshot opportunities for hours. The story is impossible to comprehend in terms of how good it is. But in my opinion the immersive gameplay drowns out the story. TLOU2 should easily be considered for GOTY.
935) A true masterpiece, it is the most ambitious game ever made, it changes the player's feelings in the blink of an eye. All poor scores by players are unfair and ridiculous. It is a mandatory game that has raised the bar in the video game industry.
936) The best game I have ever played. Only game to ever make me cry. It’s stayed in my thoughts a month after playing it for the first time. I hope ppl can go into this game with an open mind and no spoilers ahead of time.
937) Awesome game!!! Fantastic physic and graphic. Motion capture is on highest level. All emotions of characters like from movie. It looks like i'm watching movie! About Gay content or LGBT content, You will not pay the attention on this content, when i played this game i just understood that Ellie is Lesbian, another things i found when i watched letsplay in youtube. This content is invisible if you playing in this game. Don't rate 0 only for this please. You will destroy the game, the game of the decade!!!
938) I generally dont leave reviews, but had to for this one. The graphics are the best of any game so far.  The gameplay is superb, improving on the first game.  It's full of twists and turns, you just need to let it guide you.  In the end the story makes sense and there are no cliffhangers.  Most importantly, this is a fun game.
939) good game! Thanks to the developers for their titanic work! Those who give a low score simply did not play the game, or "passed" on the stream
940) Thank you for changing the game history by making this spectacular masterpiece Naughty Dog. I learned a lot from the bounty, bittersweet story.
941) Really enjoyed this game. story wasn’t as engaging and went in some odd directions. I found myself wanting to skip past a lot of story cutscenes, just wanting explore these amazing environments. Gunplay formula hasn’t changed much from first game, which isn’t a bad thing. The AI of the human characters has improved tremendously. For me I found that the combat was all about who could outmaneuver the best and gain the advantage it was incredibly fun.,Yes the Story was not as compelling as the first but it was still a damn lot better than most games. I’ve been gaming for 30 years out of 1000s of games this is easily in my top 20 ever. Keep up the good work naughty dog love ya.
942) Incredible experience, making you feel one way and then another through the whole game with some exceptional set pieces.,Highly recommend
943) I hope that every one hates the game see a explnation video for it and im sure will love it so much
944) A true cinema level masterpiece,This game went above and beyond my expectations and the turns of events that unfold really are unexpected and keep you on the edge. I found myself feeling so many emotions about this game from beginning to end and it just shows you how much love was put into this game
945) Best game ever !,a complete package,beautiful graphics,excellent narration,level design is insane,music is so emotional,these is probably my game of the year.
946) Talking about hate isn't exactly new (in the times we live in, it's more than ordinary). To portray violence, ditto, especially in games, where violence is an instrument of entertainment, used in the most varied ways, and means for the most diverse types of messages. But rarely have I seen hatred portrayed in a game so raw, so visceral and, at the same time, so complex, from causes to consequences. You may not know it, but The Last of Us: Part II will show you what hate can do to you.
947) I'm a big fan first part, but here I was also not disappointed. This story was exciting, interesting and funny sometimes. Not talking about graphics this game and soundtrack, cause are genial and beatiful. I was enjoying this game very well despite the I passed in 100 percent and platinum this production. I think that The Last of Us Part II is amazing game and thank you Naughty Dog for it that I was happy and these hours wasn't wasted.
948) I really liked playing this game, i don't see any disadvantages in it, story is good, gameplay is freaking awesome and characters are very good
949) Masterpiece. One of the best games of my generation. An outstanding achievement in terms of graphics, gameplay and story. So much dedication and talent was put into the game.,Playing this game made me feel something that I've never felt before in a game, movie, book, song, etc. A truly unique experience.
950) The storytelling and art style of this video game is the best I have ever experienced. Not only is this series now my favorite of all time, but the rollercoaster of emotions this game sends me on. Maaaan. I found myself constantly smiling. I didn't find the original game that amazing. I just thought it was a more dramatic zombie game with a stealth element. There wasn't anything HUGE or AMAZING about the 1st game that stood out to me. Where part 2 completely blew me out of the water. Well done ND.
951) This game is just mind-blowing, every single person who tries to harass it for absolutely stupid reasons - dumbs. Its so deep to understand, this people just have enough brains for it. Game is awesome, I really appreciate Naughty Dog. No matter, what dumbs talking about that guys, go on same way
952) having read some of the negative reviews about the game before i even started the game, i have to say i was a little skeptical and nervous about will the game surpass the expectations or not, especially due to the brilliance of the first game. having finished it now, i cant stop thinking about what a masterpiece of a game and story this really is. In my opinion the story surpassed my expectations in every way possible. i have to admit the story was very dark, unforgiving and gruesome, but created an impact which i think will last in my mind forever.,The graphics and the detailing of the game is unlike anything ive ever seen, and may be the best of any ps4 title. The game is filled with jaw dropping visuals and set piece moments, right from the start till the end credits. i can totally understand why most people got upset about the story and how half the game is about abby, but in my opinion thats what gave the story so much depth, otherwise i could never have emotionally connected with abby. To sum it all up, the game has created a lasting impression in my mind which will make me want to come back and remember this game like very few games have done it before.
953) No other games will be attractive after the creation of TLOU2. It offers evolutionary storyline and groundbreaking playing experience. The fantastic  graphic is more realistic than the teasing real world. By reading landsliding hate speeches pouring down by those bigot haters, we understand our world is still fulfilled with racists, sexist, homophobe, and bloodthirsty idiots who are aiming to justify their violent action through cruel male characters. How sympathetic you all are!
954) Cool gameplay and story I liked the game, but there is one minus in the story and everything is very good.
955) I think about this game a lot since playing it. I feel like that was the point. Gameplay is better than the first, the story stays with you. It's a big investment of your time and because the end gives you that final piece of the puzzle behind Ellie's reasoning I do get criticism about the way it's plot is played out but after sitting on it for weeks I still can't give it less than it deserves - 10/10. I base my score on how I would rate other games I've played and this one was a cut above most. above most.
956) I really love the game. The gameplay, is similar to the first one but more fluid, something that I like it very much. The environments are amazing, great art, very organic. And well the history is dark, cruel, but very awesome. I mean forget the typical hero-villan story, this feel more real, more human.  It's difficult to digest after you finished, but take the change, enjoy, forget about sociañ media and other opinions. Give you the opportunity to enjoy or hate it. If you like videogames, this is a must.
957) As a huge fan of the first game, the Last of Us 2 managed to surprise and amaze me in ways far beyond my expectations. It gave me an experience that I will never forget.,,The game play is very similar to the first game, but improved upon in numerous ways such as the added dodge functionality that makes melee fights much more exciting. I am personally not a great fan of stealth-style game play, but in this case making the choice between being sneaky or going in weapons blazing is a lot of fun at all times.,,The graphics (especially the lighting), sounds, voices, characters and landscapes are among the best if not the best I have ever seen or heard on any platform. I played the game alone, in a fairly dark room with headphones and on a relatively high difficulty. It was a really intense experience that left me with a pounding heart many times.,,The biggest part of general criticism seems to be the story and the characters that drive it. I personally must strongly disagree with this assessment but I understand where it's coming from. Where the first game was more of a character driven blockbuster, the second game is much more nuanced and calm and puts the player in uncomfortable situations and perspectives. I personally enjoyed the heck out of this very grown up approach. It kept me interested and engaged every minute and left me wanting more. But if you were expecting a linear progression of game one in a more standard Hollywood style sequel, you might be disappointed. For me, maybe because I've also gotten older, it was the best storytelling I have ever experienced in a game (or movie).,,For me, the worst thing was that the came had to end at some point. The ending was a bit abrupt, but served well as a conclusion.,,I would give 11/10 if possible - this is why I play games. It has instantly become one if my favorite games of all time and I applaud Naughty Dog for being so brave with this game.
958) The game is pretty well. I finished the game 3 times and I recommend this to everyone. The story is very well no matter what. Somedudes giving this game 0 out of 10 because the story is a sad story for them. Actually in my opinion the game has HAPPY ending.
959) One of the best Game I have ever played! The story wat an absolute Rollercoaster. The gameplay felt like part 1 but more smooth. Confrontations were less predictabel and more exciting. I really REALLY don't understand the so called fans who dare to rate this absolute Masterpiece with an 0(???).
960) Best game ever !!! the impact it had on me shows that games can be more than just gameplay and a very influencial art-form, this masterpiece will go down as one of the greatest ever, and i can't imagine how these haters are review bombing just because they are angry at the story...shows a lot about the maturity of lot of gamers. to dismiss the graphics, sounds, music, acting, gameplay, world building just because you got butthurt shows how immature your judgement is.
961) gameplay is so smooth and satisfying,graphics are the best graphics that you could ever see on a ps4 just gorgeous,characters are so well developed and written,and the storyline is the best I have ever experienced in a video game it makes feel things you never felt before .,this game is a MASTERPIECE. 11/10  GOTY
962) I read the spoilers online before this game's release and was extremely worried that ND had destroyed the franchise. After finishing the game, I realized that the execution of everything was downright perfect and that reading angry people's reports of what they thought of the story isn't a reliable way of getting in contact with the game. Most of the leaks were somewhat true, but none of them got even close to communicating how impactful this game is: it tears the player apart and destroys expectations one after the other, and it's a better game just because of that. When I finished it, I was in tears, on the verge of an anxiety crisis, and that was the only time a game was able to impact me so much. I wish I could go back in time just to experience this for the first time again.
963) It is worth releasing a game with a hard-perceived plot and that's all, it will not be appreciated as it should. I think this score suits this game.
964) I liked the game,and what they say about it is those who are bad about lbgt and Joel's death I'm a fan of part 1 and part 2
965) The Last of Us Part II is a true rollercoaster of strong feelings that are elicited from some bold story decisions. It goes without saying that it is a marvel to look, listen, and play as it is portraying the most beautifully realized and detailed urban post-apocalyptic world we have seen in a game to date. Although the story takes some turns that could be helped by some adjustments in their longevity, it nevertheless hits some truly high notes in their sentimental impact to the player.
966) A pure masterpiece in story telling and acting. The gameplay expands from the previous one, but in a very natural way. The visuals are the best I’ve ever seen on a console or PC, beating RDR2, in my opinion. A game for the ages.
967) The Last Of Us is one of the most exciting games i have ever played, and when they announced The Last Of Us Part II back in 2016, i was so excited that i couldn’t wait what’s the next story will be. When I got to finished the The Last Of Us Part II, i was so happy because the hype that i have since the announcement was worth it. Story,The story of The Last Of Us Part II is about revenge and forgiveness, the game is not fun and you will really feel the emotions of the two protagonist. The first half of the game you will play as Ellie, a character who will do whatever it takes to get to her goal, which is to kill Abby. The second half of the game you will play as Abby, a character who will do whatever it takes to help those people she cares about. When i saw Abby killing Joel (In Ellie's perspective), i feel the same way how Ellie felt, i felt anger and sadness, and the same feeling of losing someone you love. (In Abby’s perspective) i understood her, I understood why she killed Joel. Her goal is same like Ellie, getting revenge for killing her dad. I mean let’s be honest here, you would the same thing if you were Abby. ( I don’t really know why people still hate abby after finishing the game, i mean it’s sad to know that Joel is dead but if you were Abby you would do the same thing right?),Throughout the first half of the game, i really feel angry and the urge to kill abby, and during the second half, i felt sad of what the two protagonist  have become. I was kinda surprised because i never felt this kind of emotions whenever i play video games. Playing this game really feels like you’re in a roller coaster, there are ups and downs.,Gameplay,The new mechanics of The Last Of Us Part II is one of the most unique things i have ever seen. The game feature a new dodge mechanic which allows you to dodge enemy attacks. You can also go prone so you can hide from your enemies or try to find another ways to kill your opponents and many more. Playing this game with these new mechanics really feels fresh and intense. The enemies of The Last Of Us Part II are quite challenging, the game has improved so much, the AI of this game is so much better than the first game because they act more realistic. There are also a new enemy type like the dog and other human enemies. Let’s not forget the enemies that made The Last Of Us amazing, The Cordyceps. The Cordyceps are more dangerous than ever, the runners are more agile, the clickers are more aggressive, the stalkers are much more quiet, and the bloaters is much more dangerous than the first game. We also get to see two new enemy types like the shambler and the rat king which are challenging to kill. I am so happy that naughty dog really improved the combat and made other mechanics, i can feel that they really work hard to make this game unique and special than the first game.,Conclusion The Last Of Us Part II is the most unique game i have ever played, From it’s story up to to it’s gameplay you can really feel the effort that the crew made. I’m so excited what naughty dog has in store for us. This is my favourite game.
968) Metacritic is great but is also full of jerks, I mean the people scoring this game are definitely just frustrated by the fact that Ellie and Joel didn’t end up having a happily ever after but for Christ’s sake this is an M rated game if you want a hundred percent satisfying ending just go watch some movie on Netflix. I loved part one but part two is just a masterpiece like no other, it gives way more than what was offered. Way to go Naughty dog!
969) A great story!,A Great Game!,Simply a video game masterpiece!,Mandatory to play!
970) Visuals & details: Simply amazing. The small details in posture and clothes are insane, and in general it's an incredibly beautiful game.,,Gameplay: While rather basic, NaughtyDog introduces some interesting concepts that creates a fairly progressing gameplay. The combat does get quite repetetive, but the introduction of new foes and combat mechanics it does work through the game.,,Story: The story is captivating and keeps you on the edge at all times. The intro is very dramatic and left me confused, but I do like NaughtyDogs brave writing. With the thought of the world being in a post apocalyptic state, a lot makes sense, especially the initial scene at the estate.,,The plot is quite basic: revenge/vindication. In most of those plots, the story will get quite shallow. However TLOU2 solves this in multiple ways. First off, the characters keep it interesting. I do think Ellie is quite shallow through the game, but the characters around her help give her more feelings, but more importantly I think the flashbacks fill Ellies development. The flashbacks ensure that the plot makes sense.,,However, what makes the story great in my opinion is the introduction of Abby. As said previously, the plot is quite basic. But seeing the plot from another perspective at the same timeline, parallell, is in my eyes incredible. Following the story from Abby's perspective is haunting. You know what will happen, and how certain things will happen. But it also fills a lot of blanks in Ellies story which, in themselves, would be quite weak story points.,,Now, there's been a lot of criticism against Abby and her story which I do not agree with. Yes, the intro of Abby is **** crazy and makes you hate her immediately. But if you cut out everything with Joel and Ellie, and just look at Abby's story, it makes sense. Therefore I believe that you need a complete neutral view on Abby to understand her character and story. All of her actions do make sense.,,The progression of Abby is also a classic and fine story. The initial antagonist that starts to understand her actions and embarks on a story of change. The introduction of Lev is great and everything that happens between Abby, Lev and Yara are in my opinion fully genuine and understandable, especially if you mix in Owen. Owen is such a great character which is the foundation of Abby's turn around, and the combination of these characters makes Abby's part of TLOU2 amazing.,,The side characters are all actually amazing and they feel so human, and everyone's presence make sense. Following them from two perspectives is also incredible and the first time you play as Abby in the WLF base is amazing and also depressing, knowing the fate of some of the characters.,,One last point that I think NaughtDog are extremely brave with is how certain characters endings are. They're abrupt and chaotic, which some people might call "surprise deaths". In the world of TLOU, with TWO games of Ellie, Joel and others killing people off left and right, it all makes sense that one mistake equals death. I love that ND actually kills off characters. It's realistic.,,All in all: The Last of Us Part II is an amazing game. The user score on metacritic makes zero sense and I believe that when looking back at this game in a couple of years, it'll be regarded as one of the greats. Graphics and game details are off the charts and is in league of RDR2 as game changing. The story and characters are absolutely incredible and the whole story kept me captivated at all times. The Last of Us Part II is just what the game series needed and is an aboslute must-play for everyone, and it's also a perfect ending to the era of PS4.
971) Loved playing every minute of this masterpiece! I had been waiting for a sequel ever since 2013 and I can definitely say Part II was worth the wait. The best game I’ve ever played for sure.
972) Holy **** Where to even begin!,This game was, first and foremost, one if the BEST games this year. Not only did it exceed my expectations on the emotional trauma department, lol, but the gameplay and graphics are immaculate.,You really are taken into the head of a 19 year old girl who is grieving a big loss and whose only therapy is to get revenge, not realizing that she is losing herself to it. Then, you are suddenly thrusted into the mind of another girl, one who has been grieving for four years without any consolation other than the deep anger and hatred that started the day her father was taken from her. You see these two people, whom both think are completely different because of their experiences in life, but couldn’t be far from the same. Both have to learn to live with the hand that was dealt to them without any warning, and live with the consequences of their own actions.,Throughout the game you are given these moments of what I like to call “calm before the storm moments” where you wish that the killing, the fighting, the anger and the bloodshed would stop because the characters deserve that peace, but it is broken and torn away by what either Ellie or Abby have previously done. You get to see Ellie fall head over heels in love with the girl she’s been in love with since forever, and get a shot at a beautiful life; you see Abby take on this older sister role to a young boy who has suffered too much for his young age. But one allows her hatred to cause a rift between her loving and caring girlfriend, and the other causes for her little brother to be harmed all to chase a dream.,It’s a story about actions and consequences, about love and loss, hatred and forgiveness, losing yourself and redemption.,Truly a remarkable game and wonderful story. A great addiction to the lore of The Last of Us.
973) Finished the game, as everyone here should do before reviewing. About gameplay, audiovisual, graphics or acting we can't even discuss, Its just 10/10. Only controversial part of the game is, as we know, the story - Abby, to be exact. Wont spoil the game, just think biggest problem of haters of this game is they can't accept the fact that Abby is human same way as Ellie is And She has her own family and feelings asi Ellie. Wish to say more but I propably shouldnt. You just have to understand to the point of the game. 10/10
974) All these shallow minded players can't understand the greatness of last of us 2,this game is a masterpiece.
975) A tragedy story of vengeance and their consequences.,It was sublime the way that Naughty Dog show us how a sweet and tender character could be nasty, selfish, violent in their trajectory. The hollow in their hearts after they couldn't recognize what they realy want.
976) It is a great game. I actually played it and don't brag about it and write a bad review after 10 minute intro. I finished it with a full rainbow of feels. I liked the story, the graphics, the music (it is just gorgeous), the gameplay mechanics are amazing. Overall I recommend this game to anyone who has a slightly more developed logic (in order to understand why do some characters do what they do) and who is not a homophobe, because if you are this kind of player don't even bother to write a bad review.
977) Almost gave it a 9/10 just for that **** sniper level but the rest of the game more than makes up for it.
978) it's **** amazing!It's my favorite game now! i have no comments more!!! ohhhhhhhhhhmmmmmyyyyyyyyyyy
979) excellent graphics, most of them I entered the game, I have many mixed feelings, the graphics went beyond the real thing, love this game, it is a pity that others have the obscure stupid to rate it at 0, those people have their heads full of **** just because a great character dies, despite everything, the game touches many feelings, the script was a bit deviated by other topics that do not go, but the musical soundtrack and the graphics and other experiences involve you too much to the game.
980) This game is by far the most ambitious in term of gameplay and mechanics, I am personally in love with the characters especially Ellie and her story is so beautiful and poetic there’s a meaning for everything that she’s been through for me this game is the best ever proposed on PS4, the story isn’t Bad, she just don’t come on the pattern that every gamer has been used to this is something new where every character can die in a second, for me this is a 10.
981) Truly a masterpiece - from graphics to animations, to characters. It's truly a tale that makes you question viewpoints and how powerful video games as an art form can be. Well done!
982) Perfect sequel. Great story, unlike some people said. The characters are very real and complex, it’s not a fairy tale but a very human story. Gameplay is awesome, improved on the first one. Stealth is so much fun, combat is expanded and refined. Graphics are the best of the generation. 10/10
983) As a fan of the original, I enjoyed playing The Last of Us Part II. TLOU2 is an emotional gut-wrenching roller coaster. Relationships with characters are rich, the world design is very well done. The game is intricately detailed, not just graphically, there is a lot of thought put into each building, each environment.,,The way the developers took risks and were willing to kill off characters left me emotionally drained in a way no other game has. The world feels truly dangerous and desperate, like an apocalypse. Up until the very end the story telling left me worried with the choices Ellie and other characters might make. How the story takes your feelings towards a character, one you are supposed to hate and flips them, is impressive.,,Each death takes a toll on each character, even during gameplay NPC's have dramatic and realistic responses to their fallen comrades as they try to hunt you down. Speaking of gameplay, weapon customization, character progression with skills, the way the melee system works, the way guns and explosives feel and sound are all really top notch. TLOU2 is top notch 3rd-person action. There are some surprising things done with physics, sound design and music that create a truly immersive environment.,,If I could critique anything, towards the end the stealth gameplay overstays it's welcome a bit. Also there were a few graphical glitches in which I needed to restart my PS4 Pro. However with what Naughty Dog accomplished with character development, you walk miles in the shoes of these characters, the story unfolds in a way that makes TLOU2 feel truly genuine.
984) The best game I ever played, has a perfect and deep history that brings the first game consequences to another landing. Like Neil Druckman said: “No one is prepared for The Last of Us Part II”.
985) This game is not just about revenge or a cliché story that contains a hero and a villain, this game shows the real consequence for the choices and actions that Ellie and Abby take during the game. Revenge brings loneliness and does not fill the void caused by trauma. This game surpasses the first in all aspects, with incredible graphics, huge expansion of maps, advancement of the combat system, sensational setting, incredible development of the story and magnificent facial expressions, even of the NPCs and enemies. This game is incredible and makes us reflect a lot on our choices. A game to be played at least once in your life.
986) Greatest storytelling I've ever experienced. Your emotions will be thrown from one extreme to another.,Loved and feared every minute.
987) There is no way to say that this game is bad or the ending is wrong. OMG, I was so peaceful, when I saw credits and realized that Ellie has made right decision. There aren't bad or good persons, there is only a truth which they have and try to live with that, survive and love. I'm still shaking after finishing game. So strong and emotional. I can give only the best rating.
988) iT'S A AMAZING GAME, THE HISTORY, GAMEPLAY, GRAPHICS! I THINK IT WILL BE HARD TO BEAT THIS GAME. BEST GAME IN THE HISTORY. TKS
989) Amazing game, that show us love, friendship and forgiveness. My best spend of 30+ hours
990) The game was worth the wait. Don't listen to the noise.,This series makes you seriously think about what you would do if you had someone you loved stolen away from you. You get plenty of backstory to understand why our characters ended up doing what they did. A game needed in a very necessary time in our society.
991) I feel like I have to write this down. Last of Us Part II is a marvelous peace of art that is misjudged by people for a reason that game's audience is apparently much less mature than the game itself.,People complain about the story as being poor but ffs have you ever played it? All the Abby's story gamers keep complain about is a tool to make the ending and final Ellie's part meaningful and to have massive weight to decision she's made.,I hope as dust settles people can see that the plot that goes "ok there's Ellie - the great victor and a hero overall and there're Abby - unquestionable villain and mf overall that has to be brought down" is as immature and unrealistic as that continuous marvel movies bs.,Life's more than just black and white, hero or villain - there're a lot of stuff going on besides it and that is what this game about.
992) Great game, must be played. If you’re a sucker for happy endings though, it’s not a game for you. This world is harsh and unforgiving. People will die, maybe even people you like or come to like.
993) My favorite game so far in 25 years of gaming. It’s a masterpiece from top to bottom. It’s ironic how the people who hate this game are the ones who need this story the most.
994) Fantastic game. The world and character building is absolutely immersive and emotional. The gameplay and combat is even more refined than the original. Don’t let all of the fake “reviews” from all of the homophobes discourage you from playing this masterpiece
995) Honestly, I really enjoyed the game while playing it. The game illustrates the brutal reality that the setting takes place in where loss and devastation is very common. The many haters of the game who are upset by Joel's death fail to realize that his adverse demise shows how savage the world is. Just because a beloved character has died due to a golf club does not ultimately make the game so bad as innumerable people have expressed. In addition, the mechanics and the brutal fights made the game very fun to play with all the new additions such as hiding in the grass, climbing, jumping, dodging, and new moves in general. It provided the strongest emotional impact a game ever has due to its ability to form a powerful connection between Ellie and the player. To be honest, I did kind of understand Abby, not that I will ever like or agree with her actions. For instance, if someone killed Ellie, Joel would definitely seek revenge and if  the game were centered on the person who killed Ellie, players would view Joel as the bad guy. Therefore, though I definitely don't agree with her, i do understand her. For those people saying that it was out of character for Joel to help Abby and let his guard down, his sense of security lessened after he settled in a safe place with Ellie so he is not the same as the Joel we saw in the first game. Only thing that I kind of didn't like was that I would like to play more as Ellie and found playing as Abby was a bit boring. Overall, I loved the graphics, the cutscenes, the story, fights, characters, acting, and sound.
996) A game that play with you emotions and manipulate them, absolutely fantastic. I'm wordless, you have my freaking money naughty dog.
997) This a great game! An excellent and persuasive history. Show actual facts and controversial subject which enrich the plot.
998) Masterpiece. One of the best games I played since I started gaming in 1988. I don’t understand the complaints. People can’t appreciate the emotional complexity of the story I guess...? the story is amazing, characters are amazing.,I played the first one, which I loved, but this at another level, it is a Masterpiece.,You can tell there’s been a huge amount work put on that game: Everything is super high polishing: graphics, cinematics, gameplay mechanics.... (AI could be smarter... ) Soundtrack is amazing. Story telling is the best I’ve seen in a video game.
999) Legitimately one of the best games I have ever played. A wonderfully, passionately emotional experience from the first second to the last second, and incredibly adaptive, as in the fight with Ellie, as Abby, Ellie will use tactics and weapons that you used in your playthrough as her. A wonderful narrative masterpiece.
1000) I don’t know why people are complaining about the ending. Yeah she didn’t kill Abby but she was reminded that if she was in Joel’s shoes, he wouldn’t killl Abby either. I liked it. It’s a long game, but playing as Abby also shoes another side of her. Would recommend
1001) The most beautiful experience that everyone could gain from a video game. I really resent the irrational criticisms about such a masterpiece. Anyone who recognize and enjoy solid rock story, graphic and gameplay will definitely enjoy TLoU2.
1002) Excellent gameplay, stunning visuals and a narrative that is as beautiful as it is heartwrenching.
1003) My new favourite game of all time tied with God of War PS4. After finishing The Last of Us Part II all other games feel hollow. Eclipses the first game in every way. Highly recommended,,Hanzo
1004) I’ve just finished this amazing masterpiece. I’ve no word to describe what i’ve experienced, im just astonished by the top notch graphic and refined gameplay. The narrative is where all of this shine: a cruel and sad story able to hurt your feelings and let you know what loss is..
1005) If you can’t handle when things aren’t going your way, this isn’t a game for you. This is a masterfully crafted game with a gripping story that centers around a revenge plot that branches out in the most unexpected ways. The story challenges the player, with just not outstanding gameplay, but also understanding of themes like grief, trauma and forgiveness.
1006) It has the most unique story line ever in a 3rd person game. If they didn't make the story as it is , its just probably one those linear games with linear narrative ! This is a masterpiece!
1007) Naughty Dog probably made one of the most controversial decisions in their writing process I have ever witnessed from any game developer. Not favorable amongst the masses who seem to forget that we don't live in a perfect world. Naughty Dog wanted to do something different. The story (most) people wish they would have told is too predictable. People need to go into this game with an open mind. It is not a game you can truly take someone else's opinion on. It's a must see for yourself experience.
1008) Incredible gameplay, incredible acting from all parties. Many different factions to combat, all with unique abilities and styles. Fantastic story, and a must play for fans and non fans alike. Well done Naughty Dog, incredible game. Arguably better than the first, which is a massive compliment.
1009) Responding to the hate,,1. What's wrong about having a lesbian protagonist? A transgender character? or a strong buff woman like Abby? Nothing because representation matters.,,2. THAT scene in the first few hours. The point was to have Ellie & the player witness a brutal event for what happens afterwards which is the pursuit of revenge. It was the consequence to Part 1's ending and it was executed in a disrespectful way? on some level yes but this is TLOU, a unforgiving world where you're just surviving. He was acting out of character? Well it has been 5 years since settling in Jackson and patrols are to clear out the area and recruit new survivors? He isn't a smuggler anymore and people change.,,3. Bad/Lazy Writing: On my playthrough I failed to notice any of it. Nothing off and do you know Neil Druckmann is brilliant as he wrote Part 1 but also Uncharted 4 which also became the best one since 2?,,4. False Advertising? That is normal in this type of media along with Films to avoid spoilers so yes it is misleading but doesn't you should trust it. The leaks were unfortunate but it was proven to be by a Hacker and not some angry employee.,,5. Crunch: Yes crunch is also usual but this time almost everyone was passionate about making it that even tho the Director told them to not work so hard, they continued by their choice.,,6. The Ending: IMO I thought it was a fitting way to end the journey & I doubt after playing 10+ Hours as Abby and going through change with her Redemption Arc was gonna end up with her fate which was actually the original ending but I'm glad ND changed it as it is more open for a possible Part 3.,,7. Ruined the Franchise? it has been said years ago that Part 1 Fans aren't going to like this. This story was worth telling because it was a concept landed on and also continues the Ending from Part 1 which is the reason this is called Part 2. The character flashbacks did it justice especially the museum. Ellie in part 1 really wanted a meaningful death but finds out the truth so the flashbacks show the worst of times and the best moments. How was it ruined? lol,,8. Paid Shills? Critics gave a good score because it was their own review. I even hear that being paid off to give a good score is even illegal.,,9. User scores tell a different story. 5/10 = not accurate, Metacritic still hasn't implemented a way to verify if you own something so this was review bombed even the second the game released. Impossible to finish. It's true the 10/10's could be bombed. but the Negative ones are far more with the Bombing.,,10. The Director self insert himself? Yes Manny does look like him but Neil never did any Mocap. He even shouted out the actor so that claim is false.
1010) Review in SPANISH and ENGLISH no spoilers.,ESPAÑOL: En primer lugar aclaro que inicie a escribir pequeñas reseñas en este portal por un llamado a mi conciencia y transparencia personal. Nunca hablaría de un juego o película sin haberlo experimentado desde el inicio hasta el final.,The Last of Us part 2 es sin lugar a dudas uno de los mejores JUEGOS que he jugado y mas que eso experimentado en toda mi vida. Mas que un videojuego es una experiencia personal que pone de relieve tus creencias personales, tus expectativas y la dura realidad.,NADIE ES IMPORTANTE, nadie es un héroe invencible e inmune, los protagonistas son seres humanos y si hay que morir, se muere y punto, no hay dignidad ni dignificación en ello. La vida es dura y no esta en nuestro control, no te da gusto, solo busca transmitirte una realidad y que la sientas en todo tu ser.,En los apartados jugable y sonora es simplemente MAGNIFICO.,ENGLISH: First of all, I would like to clarify that I began to write small reviews on this portal, calling for my conscience and personal transparency. I would never speak of a game or movie without experiencing it from start to finish.,The Last of Us part 2 is undoubtedly one of the best GAMES he played and more than that he experienced in all my life. More than a video game it is a personal experience that highlights your personal beliefs, your expectations and the harsh reality.,NOBODY IS IMPORTANT, nobody is an invincible and immune hero, the protagonists are human beings and if you have to die, you die, period, there is no dignity or dignity in it. Life is hard and it is not in our control, you do not like it, it only seeks to transmit a reality and that you feel it in your whole being.,In the playable and sound sections it is simply MAGNIFICENT.
1011) Hands down best game of the year! If you go in blind to all the hate, you'll love this game.
1012) Best game i have played i think. Brilliant from start to finish. Gutted it had to end!
1013) It’s amazing! This is the best adventure I have ever experienced.  Exciting, incredible, super immersion.  Thanks to the creators for such a thrill!
1014) amazing gameplay ,amazing  story , epic final , the best ps4 exclusive game
1015) What a f**king good game!! The best game I ever had!! This is a huge step forward for video games.
1016) Without fear of retribution, I can honestly say The Last of Us Part II is one of the most powerful, poignant pieces of media/cinema/literature/entertainment/storytelling I have ever experienced.,,It's an incredibly intimate piece of literary work, and it needs to be analysed in that way.,,Well-written; beautifully nuanced, smart, impactful, hard-to-swallow and thought-provoking; even more so than the first game. Ashley Johnson delivers another powerhouse performance in her work as Ellie. Laura Bailey and Troy Baker too, deserve an abundance of recognition.,,I don't think there's an argument to be had that this game, on a technical level, is masterful. The level of detail is off-the-charts incredible; the sheer-quality and craftsmanship on display is unparalleled by anything/everything currently on the market. The gameplay, environments, level design, editing, cinematography, sound mixing and soundtrack/score - beyond fantastic.,,If video games weren't already considered an art-form, they are now. The Last of Us Part II is this generation's apex mountain for video games. It's an extremely well-told tale of obsession; balancing themes of hope, humanity, vengeance, violence and acceptance. It's dark and deeply depressing and painful, but it's perfectly poetic and powerful all the more.
1017) I didn’t think it would surpass the first but wow, it really is the best game I have ever played. I don’t understand all the zeros. I think to enjoy and understand this you need to realize that this isn’t good vs evil and you have to have a level of emotional intelligence to fathom it. I know these sorts of games aren’t for everyone but I personally loved it all. The gameplay , graphics and story will stick with you
1018) Best game ever.,Stop being so damn cringe about it and grow up. This game is **** awesome.
1019) I love this game and can't understand why people rate it so low. It's 10 for sure.
1020) Amazing game, and a huge **** I managed to avoid most of the leaks somehow, so some elements have been hugely unexpected and I wrestled with my own conscience for much of the game. One of those great games that will stay with me For a very long time
1021) For me, the main criterion for any film or game is how much it engages me and how long after the end of the story I think about various scenes or plot details in general.  And Last Of Us 2 - gave me a lot of food for thought and had a very strong emotional effect. Not to mention the visual beauty of the game, its crazy attention to the details and awesome soundtrack.
1022) I finished the game a week ago and I still can't get it out of my head. It is a dark game but still nothing less than a true masterpiece.
1023) This is easily the best game of the year, and probably the best of its genre ever. While there would be much to say about the superb graphics, the beautiful environment and its skillful use in mood-setting, the challenging but fair combat (which can be tailored to your preferences), and the crafting system which hits the sweet spot between being too simple and too tedious, the real star in this game are the characters and the story.,,Contrary to what some critics say, the story of this game actually takes the ending of its predecessor seriously and explores its ramification. You get to know characters affected by these events, and the game makes you care deeply about them — so when at some point they clash with our protagonist, you really don't know whom to root for. The game also makes you actually care about minor characters on (almost) every side of the many conflicts in this game, which leads to many gut-clenching events which often made me pause the game to reflect on what had just happened.,,Oh, and — time and again — no one gets the easy way out. And this is where the game really shines and literally earns its “mature” label: When a story starts with the supposed hero slaughtering doctors and nurses in a hospital, who are on the verge of doing nothing less than saving humanity, an ending along the lines of “we killed the baddies, now everything is fine and everyone lived happily ever after”, which you see so often in movies and games, and some fans apparently expected, would be juvenile and rather empty.,,This game is not juvenile and empty. It is mature, and it actually has something to say. It elevates gaming from pure entertainment to art (that happens to entertain hella lot!).
1024) Don't listen to the hate. Many of the "reviewers" here clearly have not played the game. This game is a huge step forward for video games as a serious art-form. The gameplay is consistently evolving, even over the course of the 30-35 hours it takes to complete it. The story is big and sprawling, but at the same time very cohesive and well-considered. It avoids the many potential pitfalls to deliver a truly impactful but also very enjoyable experience. This game respects the player's intelligence and maturity in a way that a lot of other games would be afraid to do. Please just play it for yourself, I think you are really missing out if you don't give this game a chance.
1025) Masterpiece game with a roller-coaster emotional scene. Beautiful gameplay and story.
1026) An incredibly beautiful game, the ending is almost as I expected. For those who are afraid of LGBT people, this is not emphasized here, the emphasis is on something else.
1027) I can only admire the fact that after the success of the first game the development team had enough courage to great something original and that the game has a lot to say. It depicts things in a manner that even most of the war movies fail to achieve. The fact that a lot of people don't understand it, is simply a comment on how primitive an average mind can be. This game doesn't tell you how to feel or how to think about certain things, it expects you to be capable of making up your own mind and if needed to read between the lines. This game isn't your babysitter.
1028) So as a mainly social gamer I don’t have the time to play a million games and the majority of the time I definitely don’t complete the game. But I played this through and finished it. So I guess that sums up how I feel about this and pretty much any Naughty Dog production. Well done!! Again
1029) this game is masterpice , i advise anyone to enjoy and play it.soundtrack 10/10.graphics 10/10.story 9/10.this game is absolutely game of the year
1030) Quite simply the greatest accomplishment in gaming history. Those who cant deal with the themes should be embarrassed.,The art and gameplay are unbelievable, well done to the devs, outstanding.
1031) The story, the graphics the game play and character design is absolutely amazing, I can’t wait to play the third part in 7 or 8 year “maybe”. It’s as good as the first original The Last Of Us game and I really recommend it to play, I think the last of us series is our generation game so stop reading all bad reviews and give it a shot.
1032) I've been a huge fan of TLOU and ever since Sarah died in the original game I've been hooked. I was quite skeptical in regards to a "part II" since I felt that there was no need for a sequel. There was also a lot of negative reviews here on metacritic that worried me greatly, but now that I've finished the game, there was no need to worry.,,Graphics: Ranging from large beautiful landscape scenery to grim foggy forests and run down cities this has got to be some of the best work I've seen to date. Also the amazing facial animations are best in class. Without a doubt 10/10,,Music/voice acting: The music is still amazing. Emotional and it enriches the mood/story. If there is one thing that rings in my mind when thinking about the original game it's the sad hopelessness that ringings out on a string instrument. You know which tune i'm thinking off. If you don't know, play the original and come back. The voice acting seem natural and all the actors are doing a great job much like the original. 10/10.,,Gameplay: The game mechanics are very similar to the original and will feel very familiar if you played the first game. Controlling the characters is a little "clumsy" at times. There was a couple of fun new upgrades and weapons. Enemy AI is much better with regards to flanking and attacking you strategically, but its way too easy to lose detection. What bothered me most was the AI off teammates who sneak around to avoid detection, and in so doing, bumps into you and cause yourself to be detected. This game does not feel like the perfect 3rd person shooter experience, but neither is it designed to do so. Sneaking and strategic attacks are the main route and the main focus is the story. Gameplay 7-8/10.,,Story: This is a very controversial topic. It will leave fans heartbroken (me included) and hence some of the negative reviews. It's without a doubt on of the darkest stories I've experienced in a game. ND does a great job of portraying the harsh post-apocalyptic world and the most gruesome sides of human nature. This is portrayed in many ways e.g. torture and murder. It shows Ellie's loss of humanity as she desperately seeks revenge even giving up on her life dream. They do a great job with controlling the tempo of this game. You have slow relaxed parts and you have action filled sequences, but you know that you're never safe and you've learned to never let your guard down so you're on edge through the whole game. 10/10.,,Lastly, do not believe the immense negativism that is associated with this game. The negative critique is most likely written by people who have nothing to do with the game  (e.g. anti-LGBT) or but*hurt people who can't come to the acceptance with the nature of this horrific post-apocalyptic world. If you played the first and enjoyed it, chances are high that you're going to like this one as well.
1033) This is one of the best stories ever made in the videogame history. Period.
1034) This game is a masterpiece of deep storytelling which explores revenge, humanity and redefining good and evil in a way i still haven't seen in a video game. it is one of the first video games i played that can easily compete with classic movies and tv shows in terms of character develepment, protagonists, antagonists and full closure.,I thought the first game was amazingly good, but this is simply a masterpiece. and it truly hurts me that so much people don't understand what naughty dog meant with it.
1035) Awesome game. Not really understanding all the complaining about this one, outside of the review bombing day one from people that didn't even play it. Graphically, it's beautiful. One of the best looking games I've ever seen. The attention to detail is second to none. It's a very immersive experience. The gameplay is nearly perfect. It's similar to the first one and improves on it in every area. The characters are well written, and their motives make sense. Ellie's decisions can be frustrating, but she's a teenage girl that just had the most important person in her world taken away from her. What do you expect? Same thing with Abby. If she was the main character from the beginning, nobody would blame her for hunting down and killing Joel. He murdered her father and people in her group, and stopped the only chance the world had for a cure. And as far as the ending goes, it would've been pretty disappointing if Ellie did end up killing Abby. Do people not understand what character development is? She finally lets it go and moves on with her life. I loved the way it all came together. Hopefully there's a part 3 where Ellie goes off to find Dina. It looked like that might be where she was headed in the final shot. But overall, it's a great game. Definitely worth playing.
1036) The graphics and gameplay were fantastic. The story is a masterpiece, but it was not popular. We experience a dark and uncomfortable atmosphere, but it is still enjoyable.,Some may be upset that Joel did not die proudly and also that Abby was not killed. But this is not the whole story and it has much more important messages. Life is not just about revenge, and we may lose the good things in life by taking revenge. Revenge can have many consequences for us, of which we are unaware and when we lose our loved ones, we realize our actions (Abby lost her group and Owen , Ellie lost Jessy, and Dina left Ellie)
1037) Its one of the best games of the generation. Much better than the first in gameplay and graphics. The Story is amazing too, but the first wins over the second in that aspect
1038) Literal masterpiece and best game if ever played. Anyone who says it’s trash is just salty that Joel died or that they had to play as a lesbian. Deeply emotional and complex storyline, and superb acting that makes most movies seem like a joke. The gameplay is smooth as silk and combat is fun.
1039) I managed to avoid spoilers and reviews and I really really enjoyed the game. Awesome story. You can tell it'll piss people off when you play it, writers took some big risks. But I must say it's worth it, they delivered in a very big way.,,Some parts were really hard to play. I do not recommend rushing the game. Try to take breaks in between chapters. Try to get in the skin of the characters and understand their motives.
1040) i'll never disappointed about TLOUP2 and this is the game you must play . Don't care about characters and stories , game be done very well at gameplay, graphics ,sound , music and atmosphere.
1041) I recently played The Last of Us for the first time. I was about 7 years late and I said it’s one of the best games I have ever played! Now I have finished the follow up, The Last of Us Part II. Overall it’s a great game. Is it better than the original? Yes and no. The story is more elaborate and is pretty compelling. A few slow moments but overall it tells a dark and interesting story. I did miss the simplistic nature of the first game but sequels are always more complex. In the end, what works is the clever and controversial way that it drives the point home that everyone is villain in someone else’s story. It’s all a matter of perspective.
1042) Well **** done Naughty Dog. A worthy continuation of it’s predecessor. Empathy and intelligence go hand in hand. Not everyone has the capacity.
1043) This game has made a terrible year so much better. The characters are phenomenal, I felt such strong emotions towards every one of them. Even you know who. The narrative grips you for the entirety of the game. I didn't want to put my controller down at all.
1044) The work that has gone into this game is insane. A masterpiece on every level.
1045) this is the best game I ever played,I believe that the game have a bad rating because of lgbti, this game raised the bar for all games,The director have a master mind,After the first hour I said that I will never feel sorry for abby but after i finish the game I felt sorry for her for both of them, this is life, every one have a point view.
1046) You can't judge a game based on a screenshot, i loved joel he is my favourite video game character , i was so sad and crushed by the way he went out but judging the game based on a screenshot of him is just unfair and people send hate comments come on guys its a game after all.
1047) im too lazy to write my opinion but it’s a great game, but maybe not for fans of og story
1048) Absolutely gorgeous game, excellent playability. Likable characters, compelling story. This story will make you through a large range of emotions. Must play or watch!
1049) Simply put this game is the most emotional and beautiful game I ever played in 30 years. A truly masterpiece that takes advantage of the video game media to create the most intense experience to date. A roller coaster of emotions from start to finish. The narrative is brave and hits hard. Although I consider this game the pinnacle of the media, this game is not for everyone (see the death threat people who worked on this game has received on the first days of the release), it goes deep in the spiral of violence ignited by revenge and for someone it could be too much to handle, included myself.,Technically is the best game I ever played: stunning visuals, incredible acting performances, game play polish.,The ND guys did an outstanding job with this title, maybe is not the game all the fan base wanted or expected (included myself, again), but this game deserve a solid 9/10, I gave 10 because of all the zero's that are (in my humble opinion) not totally unbiased.,To summarize: the best 25h~ spent in front of a game console. Totally recommended.
1050) This game will be remembered for decades. After playing again part 1 and part 2 ( new game plus), i have come to some conclusions. This game cannot be understand by explaining the thematic and philosophical ideas behind it to the public. You have to be invested and be 100% focused on every aspect, idea, theme etc. Any game that can make me feel like these 2 titles, is 10/10 for me. This, it's a huge landmark in gaming industry and it set a new standard in terms of story telling, gameplay, graphics. This game is ahead of its time and people are not honest with themselves and think that writers or content creators must create what the public wants. HAHA, this is not how art works:). Oh and one last thought. It's interesting to see how many people take games so personally that they resort to violent messages to content creators and even actors that are just doing their job:). Brilliant game, so powerfull that i don't think i can enjoy other games. We can now see more clearly, a new type of people.,,P.S.: Saying goodby is hard for everyone but life, is just a series of experiences that come and go all the way till the end:) and all what we have in the end, are our memories, the taste from our past experiences:)
1051) Really fantastic game! Naughty Dog did it again and they still are my favorite developer. The gameplay is very entertaining, the AI is smart, you always have to move and think ahead.The graphics are top notch, the best facial expressions and (voice) acting, ligthing, textures,....Everything has super high production values and the attention to detail is unpar.,The audio is incredible, you really have to hear this in surround: you can hear which direction the enemy is, the enemies shout commands or are in shock when a comrade dies and they even shout their name.,The Story is 10/10. Ok it's depressing. Joel does but he sometimes comes back in flashbacks so he's not really dead, the game wants to tell you that Ellie will always remember him. The game wants Joel to die because it wants you to feel the same anger as Ellie. Ellie has now a cause why she wants to take you on a revenge trip. But the killer Abby also becomes the main character and this is a very bold but smart move of Naughty Dog. The game wants to tell you that there is no good or evil. Ellie has her reasons to kill Abby, because she killed her father figure: Joel. But Joel killed Abby's father!!! So Abby also had a good reason to kill Joel. We learn from Abby's past that she's not evil but just wants her revenge just like Ellie ..... It's an interesting change of perspective which I like. The end was weird but interesting, you play as Abby who wants to kill Ellie... And later on you play as Ellie who wants to kill Abby. In the end you are not cheering that someone wins, you want them both live and go their seperate ways. Who wins? Ellie? Abby? Nobody? You have to play the game. Just do it, keep an open mind and enjoy. Also check out on Youtube: Girlfriend reviews and their video: 'understanding Last Of Us  2" . After this you understand it better, they really nailed it.
1052) This is not an opinion about the game, which we already know (people with some intelligence) that it is the GREATEST WORK OF ART OF ALL THE VIDEOGAMES, it is a note to the bunch of subnormal that criticize this wonder without knowing what they are talking about .,,I would like to know who is hiding behind the nicks who make negative comments without any basis, but I think I know what kind of people they are: people who do not know how to do O with a joint, clowns who I think will not know or read (I do not understand how they know turn on the console), entities that have no other things to do, botarates that their life is very sad, in short, people who would have to consider your existence, because you do no good to humanity ... IT IS THAT YOU CANNOT BE DUMBER.,,What I do not understand is that Metacritic, to the useless as you leave or enter the page, I really wish you all the worst in the world and, seriously, you should get to work or study you need.,,SHORTCUT OF PALURDOS WHO CRITICIZE A GAME WITHOUT HAVING ANY **** IDEA OF WHAT THEY SPEAK.
1053) The best story told in 20 years. It breaks my heart that this story is inaccessible to some. I'd explain further but I don't want to give any spoilers. The universe of The Last of Us is a beautiful, sad world within a snow globe. And you as the player invest deeply into a story about the cost of vengeance, and the consequence of our choices. an honest tale about the human condition, choice, and mortality. it's a perfect game, with so much to teach- but to discover that you must see with eyes unclouded.
1054) I don't agree with the negative reviews here saying that playing as Abby ruined the story. To me, it offered such a unique experience. I really empathized with Abby. This created an inner conflict: I should be rooting for Ellie, the girl I stuck with through thick and thin, but Abby was kind of right killing Joel. I also saw a lot of similarities between the two. This made it so hard for me to pick a side. At the end of the game I really didn't want to kill Abby. I felt like Ellie was the malefactor in this scenario. So I was really satisfied when she let her go. The death of this character would have been too much injustice. The Last of Us: Part 2 is more than a story of survival. It's about unjust punishment that an apocalypse inextricably entails. In this respect, Part 2 is more complex than Part 1. This game isn't about wreckless killing and taking revenge. The reviewers here who rate the game badly fail to see this.
1055) A true master piece. A work of art. This game takes the entire medium to a whole new level.
1056) This is without a doubt the best storytelling video game ever produced. Fantastic writing NaughtyDog. The sequence of the plot was superb where several times, I would put down my controller, palms sweating and anxious to move forward but knowing I must as the nuanced writing we so true to each character I had to, was compelled to see it through. This is a very dark, sad story to be sure, but so fitting to the backdrop, with resonating experiences and lessons, and yet still it has wonderful moments to lighten the mood.,The graphics are the very best for this generation, truly amazing. The game mechanics and combat are very good, improved from TLOU1, with my only minor complaint being the challenge to switch between guns.  NaughtyDog, this lifetime gamer for decades, thanks you for creating a masterpiece that I’ve never experienced its equal!!!
1057) Epic. Well worth the investment. Between this and Ghost of Tsushima Sony solidifies themselves as the console to own of this generation.
1058) Strong from start to finish.  If you pay attention to world building presented from start to finish it ties it all together
1059) Masterpiece!! This game made feel a lot of emotions. I enjoyed every second of it
1060) It’s a beautiful game with a fantastic story told from 2 different perspectives. If you’re willing to invest and immerse yourself in the story and do not actively refuse it because of some childish resentment, you’ll definitely love this game.
1061) I don’t understand the hate towards this game. It was brilliant from start to finish.
1062) The Last of Us Part II is the perfect combination of an excellent Hollywood movie with a fat budget with fun and flowing gameplay. The phenomenal writing will touch every player and won't leave an eye dry of tears. Combat and exploration are challenging and lead the player to use creativity and improvisation. A real masterpiece and a must-have for every PS4 owner.
1063) Its an amazing story that accomplished everything it set out to do, the only thing they did wrong was one "tasteful" scene that could have been done better, you're supposed to hate how it humanizes the "bad guys" and eventually you see how the two playable characters mirror each other, both having lost themselves due to a death and trying to find themselves and deal with the ptsd all wrong. Once you learn to appreciate the game for making you hate it you can truly see how amazing and heart breaking it is.
1064) An amazing game that is unfortunately being review bombed by entitled and myopic "True Gamers" that don't realize that not everything has to be made for them, or that putting a point of view that isn't held by them in a piece of art is not a political act.
1065) Man, reading these reviews reminds me of misery (the film). 'you dirty bured for killing my misery'
1066) I really loved the story of this game, there are so many references to the first game and I have found the main characters awesome. Abby and Ellie were psychologically perfect. The gameplay was fine.
1067) This is a perfect follow up to the masterpiece that is the first game.  People who hate it don’t understand the story, and don’t know what Ellie had to get over to forgive and move on.
1068) This game is amazing! To fully enjoy this game, you can't expect just another TLOU story. With the same story and theme. This game will make you feel many different feelings.  Angre, happy, sad, confused, and deffenetly conflicted. The game exspect you to feel for joel and ellie from the start. And i deffenetly did that. But the reason why people are hating on the game is bizzare. Yes it was deffenetly many times i didnt like what was happening but it was still an authentic and grounded story that was beliveble. The once who dont like the game, lack the ability to se that there are no heroes in this world, it is a dark world where everybody have there reason and story.
1069) Amazing game! The gameplay, history and characters are perfect. It is not a game for everyone and those who want to play it must have an open mind. Because naughty dog will not be afraid to show you how humanity really is and also the human behaviour of the characters. WAITING FOR A PART III !!
1070) Masterpiece!! Simple as that!!!When I saw 5.6 (user score) I said to myself, there a lot of haters out there. I can't imagine someone playing that game and giving something else that a 10 or a 9. Don't listen to bad reviews, go buy it. Worth every penny!!
1071) So I've finished The Last of Us Part 2 and this game is definitely not what I expected. But I don't think it has been as bad as some people make it out to be.,,I don't understand what their intentions were when they decided to make you play as Abby, because if they were wanting to make you feel sympathy for her then that didn't quite work for me at least, but if they were trying to just show her perspective and her motivation than that I think that Abby as a person is quite dumb or I don't know she felt like she wasn't human, like at all. I'm not saying that she had to be super emotional, but she was cold towards like everybody I feel like. The only part where she was seen being human was when she was interacting with Alice the dog.,,I really liked the patrol route part and Seattle day 1, 2, 3 from Ellie's perspective. I believe that story should have ended with Ellie, Dina, and Dina's kid on the farm. But it seems like their goal was to make you feel really sad. So they made Ellie and Abby fight again. The end of the fight when Ellie gets two of her fingers bitten off then she spares Abby and after that, they show that Ellie can't even play the guitar because of this, is literally the saddest thing I have ever seen in any story. And this wasn't like the "usual" sad feeling when you can just cry. No, I couldn't even cry, I just felt empty.,,It was so sad to see two of my favorite characters in all of gaming brutally killed basically, with Joel being actually tortured to death and Ellie losing literally everything, the only thing she had left was that she spared Abby, but that wasn't really anything because she was the one to restart the cycle after Abby ended it in the Theatre fight. Then if as I said above the ending would have been Dina and Ellie and Dina's kid living on the farm together would have been actually logical based on my thinking. Abby would have had the moral high-ground and Lev as a friend. And Ellie would have had Dina and her kid and a peaceful life. Then would have been equal none of them would be the winner because Abby lost her friends and the WLF as her group. And Ellie lost Jesse and Joel and had PTSD.,,And I don't quite understand why someone as a writer would make something that would make people this sad. But if that's what Neil Druckmann was going for then he succeeded.,,From a technical standpoint, this game was amazing especially as a programming student who's interested in game development. The graphics were stunning. My favorite piece of tech in the game was how they made the rope animation is so good and in that one scene where Ellie takes of her shirt over her head and it doesn't clip it's smooth.,,If you have read this far then thank you for reading my thoughts. And have a nice day.
1072) The best game of 2020 until someone proves otherwise. Technical elements of gameplay never seen in any other game. An exemplary level of polishing. An absolutely mature and bold outcome, a huge reflection on the human being. Strong and intense story. A game about people, about human behavior. Sensitive and brutal. Inviting and challenging. The industry needs games with this level of excellence.
1073) No matter the bad reviews... this is a great game.. some people do not understand the story because they get hurt so early in the game..
1074) Every bit as good as the first, and then some. I like a company that wants to do a bold and controversial story and not just stand pat with a sequel. If you have an open mind, you'll love this game's story. Brutally beautiful and horrifyingly terrific as the first, and the game play is even better than the original. Bravo, Naughty Dog, bravo.
1075) This is called a game that can be enjoyed from moment to moment.
1076) this is the best game I've ever played. I was struck by everything about her. Starting with the plot and ending with the motivation of the main characters of the game. Naughty dog I want more.
1077) I truly don’t think most players understood the point of playing as multiple characters or the various identities of them. I guess most people like running around and killing things quickly without appreciating the details or plot. I thought this game was brilliant.
1078) The Last of Us Part 2 achieved something truly worthy of a masterpiece. It pushes the boundaries in every area, from narrative, to gameplay to sound and visual design. It would’ve been a far safer bet for Naughty Dog to “play it safe” especially considering the weight of expectation they carried. It takes a pair to pull off what they did, and do it with a level of polish and passion that 1) results in a game that more than does justice to the game it succeeds, but 2) also pushes the gaming industry forward as a result. That’s the definition of creative genius
1079) The first game was my favorite game of all time, but Part II set the bar even higher for whatever Naughty Dog makes next. Even though it may not have been the story that I had wanted, it was the story that needed to be told. Great job at creating something with incredible game-play, environment, and narrative. I can't begin to thank Naughty Dog for helping to change my mindset from seeking the things I desire, to overcoming what I don't want to accept.
1080) Amazing story, great characters, and "just tough enough" gameplay.  Took me 33 hours to complete. Loved it all.
1081) Complete masterpiece of empathy and storytelling, arguably the most affecting piece of media to exist.
1082) This game sit up there for me with Breath of the wild as one of the best games ever made.,Story:,It made me cry, it made me happy and most importantly- it made me think.,I will go to such length and even say that it have exceeded the first game.,Gameplay: one word- Amazing.
1083) The Last of Us 2 has passed. A great game with a strong story, in my opinion the most powerful of all that came out on PS4. Thank NaughtyDog, you are still the best. I really liked the ending - it surpassed everything I tried to predict
1084) The sequel was just as good, if not better than the first game. It deserves to be recognized as the masterpiece that it is. While I would have liked 1 more minute of the final cutscene, I think as a story it was beautifully orchestrated with amazing timing and pacing. I was never bored, and for the last 5 or so hours I couldn’t put it down. It had my heart racing, my eyes watering, and my jaw dropping.
1085) By far the best single player game I have ever had the pleasure of playing. Beat it once on normal, replaying it immediately(which I have  never done for any game) on hard, plan on playing again in the fall on "survivor mode". If you enjoyed The Last of Us, this is a MUST play.
1086) The game is real good, thats all there really is to it. highly recommend my peeps.
1087) A true masterpiece, the game that defines this console generation.,If you only buy one game for PlayStation 4 then this simply must be that game, an almost flawless experience from start to finish.
1088) This game took me emotionally and showed me that Naughty Dog could make another good game (just my opinion)
1089) It is a beautiful game from start to finish, the story is told in a very impressive way, with a magnificent script, and to say of its perfect gameplay, a game that deserves to be one of the Best games Of the history.
1090) Well worth the wait, just as good if not better than the original. It's a shame it's been review-bombed by edgy teens who wanted a mindless bloodbath but this game's storyline is an emotional gutpunch will stick with you for a long time if you're actually capable of feeling any emotion other than hatred.
1091) Just like the first game, it feels like you are playing a movie with your controller. So many of your emotions will be played on during the 20 to 35 hours of intense gameplay. At times the game seems to be a very odd pace, for example there will be a major firefight then intense battle with infected then nothing... nothing but exploring for an extended period of time and collecting items for the next big fight. This would be my only thing I dislike about the game, the uneven pacing involved. Other then that I loved the game. At certain times it was hard to play because of how intense the storyline is. Neil druckman was not kidding when he said this game is about the vicious horrible cycle of violence, there is no real bad guys in the game, no right or wrong. Just violence, hate and revenge, but pieced together in a way you understand and see why it is happening between the different groups of people. It forces you to see the differnt points of view, and even tho you might not like certain characters in the game for the things they’ve done or the choices they make, after time you’ll come to understand fully why each character does the things they do, even if their actions are HORRIBLE,,But, this game is amazing. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND playing it, at times you’ll want to shut it off and quit playing. DONT, keep going, keep going till you reach the end.
1092) Masterpiece. Don't read into the negativity. Keep an open mind when you play.,Graphics, game-play are top notch.,The story is grim, bitter, upsetting and heartbreaking but its a story they wanted to tell and its a brilliant one.  This is the first game that crawled out the screen to give physical discomfort.,Experience this game.,I rate this game better than the first one.
1093) Falls in the same category that God of War, Witcher 3, Red dead redemption 2, true masterpiece. Don't need to justify anything, if you have a clear sence of admiration towards in every way classfully produced game you will like it. P.s. I also think that the plot is incredible without thinking any politics, I also hate if there is forced social justice agenda. I didn't feel like it was in this game
1094) Its sad that people who didn't even play the game put on a rating and ruin the chance that others will even try it out. Also the game itself IS NOT BAD there are just a lot of unsatisfactual events that happen, its a rollercoaster of emotions and sometimes it makes you feel like sh** but the game itself is amazing so DO NOT trust the ratings, try it out for yourself you will not regret it
1095) It's a masterpiece. Everyone can say it's trash but for me, it's deserve 10 points. The story, gameplay, graphic, etc.. is wonderful. I dunno why people say it's trash and ask ND to remake the whole story!? The ending is meaningful when Ellie decide not to kill Abby and she lose everything. For me it's the best game I've ever played including TLOU
1096) Thıs game is really underwater I Don't undertsand why people talk **** about the whole story because of one characters death I give this game a 95 out of 100 but since I can't give it a 9.5 I give I choose to give it a 10 this game already has a too low avarage so 10 to get the avarage higher öne of the best games of this generation!
1097) Game of the year! Another masterpiece from Naughty Dog.    .
1098) The best game in the world,Everyone in their life should experience this game
1099) This review does not much talk about the game but was rather written to direct you to looking at some more positive reviews of it because you will not find many here and you will most likely find those more informative. I 100% recommend this game to anyone who enjoys great, divisive storytelling and is capable of playing it with an open mind. Everyone who says anything bad about this game has opinions rooted in homophobia, sexism, and closed mindedness. I am certain that if you were to have a conversation with anyone who says anything bad about this game’s story you would realize that the opinions of the majority are full of bigotry and ignorance, and they would inadvertently lead you to buying the game. I’ve played through the story twice and can easily say that it is my favorite story ever told in all of movies and video games.
1100) This game has two significant aspects to it that earn it high praise, in my opinion - the technological advancement, and the narrative complexity.,,To tackle the less complicated aspect first, the technological advancement of the game is undeniable - considering the game is on the platform that is now regarded as outdated, the strides it makes in the amount of detail, polish, and performance are incredible. The level of accuracy of physics, motion capture, weapon mechanics, sound technology, and lighting are miles above comparable AAA titles released this year on PS4.,,To speak on the narrative spoiler-free, I will say upfront that when I finished my first playthrough of The Last Of Us Part II, I didn't 100% understand it. It left me emotionally drained and confused for some time. But it took thinking about the story just a little deeper, as well as refreshing my memory on the first installment of the series, that the storytelling of the second installment, shallow at first glance, started to unravel.,,If you see people saying, "The plot fo this game is basically revenge is bad," I would safely assume they finished the game and never bothered to think about it any more than they had to. It saddens me that today's consumers expect to be fed direct and clear narrative off the bat and don't bother to analyze anything.,,The truth is, there is a reason that the name of this installment is "The Last Of Us Part II" and not "The Last Of Us 2". It is not a new ark for the characters in the story - it is a continuation, which you have to keep in mind to understand what it is about. The point of the story, the motivations, and torments of the characters are directly connected to the first game.,,So, as a piece of advice, before playing this game, refresh your memory of the first one. Take some time to form a solid understanding of its characters before taking on Part II. Because if you don't, you might not enjoy your time spent with the game and be left just as confused as I was when I first played it.,,Overall, this game is very, very good. I would personally call it a masterpiece, even though I know a lot of people would disagree with me. It has certain flaws to it, but in my opinion, they are outweighed by its strengths, which is why I give it a 10 to recognize the amount of work and passion that the developers poured into this game.
1101) At face value, the story is pretty bad. But there's some incredibly human, and nuances moments and motivation which the characters have, and this game is not to be judged the moment the credits roll.,One of the besvideo game storiesm Also the combat is freakin' great
1102) Love this game, un gameplay and history. The gameplay ia fantastic and environment si beatiful.
1103) I think the story of the game is fine. well described on both sides. Goty..
1104) Ignore the hate. This game challenges the player with more than fluid gameplay, good writing, solid graphics, and amazing music, but a story that demands more from us as people. It somehow manages to be better than the first, setting another high standard for the industry to strive for.
1105) I don't get why people hated this game so much,before it even came out...I almost did't buy the game because of the bad rumours about the game.And after seeing the user score the day of the release I even decided I wasn't gonna buy it,just because I believed the rumours.I started watching a walkthrough,but when the titles rolled in I couldn't do it.I was waiting for this game for almost 6 years,and I couldn't just watch some other guy play it.So i bought it.After having finished the game i can confirm that all the bad rumours around the game's plot are bs.Huge bs.As it may seem,some people were quick to rate and judge the game without ever playing it.Because what i played was a masterpiece.Loved the story,full of emotion.The mechanics were way better than the first.Graphics were phenomenal.Sound design was near perfect and it was really fun to play.I recommend it 100%.
1106) What a fun game. The people who hate it are salty that their heroes ended up being villains, but the story had depth and profundity not expected from a video game. The fan base is embarrassing. I loved Joel and Ellie as much as the rest. But the game made it clear that they threw away civilizations only chance at survival and a strong womans father
1107) Masterpiece. Storytelling instills genuine emotion into the player. Response towards the game a perfect example of life imitating art. A cautionary tale of the damaging and violent effects of grief. Must play.
1108) Amazing..Period loved the game and all that there was to do in it i hope they release some DLC so i can continue my journey
1109) This game is excellent. No matter what you read or saw about the story or else, the experience is something i’ve never seen before. You have to play with an open mind, give it a chance, because it’s really good!
1110) This is the best game I have ever played, the graphics are amazing, the animations and realism of the gameplay are just mind-blowing, the combat system, dodging, the AI, it's just tremendous. However, almost everyone didn't seem to like the story. I believe it is because they didn't understand it as it actually is.,Most people hate it because Joel dies and Ellie doesn't kill Abby. First of all, every human being dies at some point, people have to accept that, also the average life expectancy in the US is around 72 years, so obviously in a post-apocalyptic world, the average life expectancy would lower down a lot, which means Joel was supposed to die around his age. My point is even if Abby didn't exist, Joel was anyway gonna die (plus characters always wonder if they're going to die from old age, because it is very improbable).,In addition, the fact that the predecessor's doctor NPC was Abby's father, doesn't mean it's the only reason Joel was killed, Abby wasn't alone on her quest for vengeance, everyone wanted him dead because he made the worst decision ever made in the entire world (literally). About Ellie not killing Abby at the end, there are many reasons. 1- Ellie couldn't sleep anymore, she always had the memory of Joel dying, she couldn't even hunt (this is when the birthday gift part becomes important, when she finds the boar in the museum). So she went to Santa Barbara and when she's going to kill her, she finally remembers Joel playing the guitar, Ellie finally calmed her consciousness and stopped thinking about him only because of the fact that he died, but because of how he was. Then, she realizes there's no point on keep destroying that woman, so she lets her go.,2- (This is my personal interpretation) Ellie didn't kill Abby because she saw herself in Lev, she knew that by killing Abby, she would be, in a way, killing Joel.,The game makes you not only understand that Abigail is a good person, but to comprehend the Mother figure she is to Lev. She was there when he losed his mom, she was there when he loses his sister and his home, she understood he wanted to be a boy, she all he had, and he was all she had too (after losing the love of her life, his girlfriend + future son + dog, her friend group and her home, the WLF).,So Ellie realized she was the villain of the story, and allowed her to leave with Lev.,I also wanted to emphasize the fact that, in the beginning of the game, when you just get to know Abby, after killing Joel, she gave me that feeling I got when I argued with my dad, that threatening sensation that would send shivers down my spine, I would cringe with my arms to the sound of her voice, I was totally scared (you can see that when she asks Ellie to toss her weapon and she does it while shaking). Even in the Tracking Lessons chapter when she throws a stone to her father, I could feel that fear even though she was a child there, but when I got to know her better through her gameplay, that disappeared, I had totally empathized with her. There are people who say they didn't stop seeing her as a villain (I thought that myself) but you actually do, you just don't realize it in the process.,I personally believe this game recquires a high level of maturity and analysis to understand, as a big percentage of the gamer community is conformed by underage people (or even 10 year old children), it is probable that the majority don't get to comprehend it. Nevertheless, this game is still one of the greatest games ever made, I would call it "The ‘Pulp Fiction’ of games".
1111) To everyone giving this game a low rating I would ask why??? The story is compelling throughout and the game, sound design, writing, and everything in between are outstanding! Way to go Naughty Dog in my eyes you have made yet another 10/10 game!,!!SPOILERS!!,Everyone is hating on the death of one character but the whole premise of the game is revenge without the death what reason would there be for any of the events in the game.,I get everyone loves the character and I do too but I think the game does real justice to that character by paying tribute to them with thew flashback bits.,Honest opinion: the death scene wasn't the best they could have put up a bit more of a fight but that is my only criticism everything else is spot on. Seriously Naughty Dog 10/10 what an epic
1112) I've been thinking about this game for a week. The whole week! I haven't thought about any game or movie for so long. 10 points.
1113) One of the best games i have ever played. To be frank this is an experience not only a game. Played it for 4 days 8 hours a day. After finishing it i felt ... emotionally exhausted. I sat with the controller in my hand for 20 minutes just thinking to what i have been put through. NO GAME EVER made me feel like this. It is an emotionally difficult game. But i think this was the point. Congratulations Naughty Dog for creating this masterpiece!
1114) is a fking masterpiece, i don’t know how people can hate it, incredibly gameplay, graphics, long duration and the story is such a good for me, i played twice already, everything perfect
1115) I loved the first game and I love the second. Everything from graphics through to story and gameplay is truly unique and amazing. This game doesn't deserve the hate it has gotten, Naughty dog have made another ground breaking game. The Last of Us part 2 isn't my new favourite game but it is definitely the best  I have ever played.
1116) It is a Masterpiece...,,And please remember this is not the story about "your Joel and your Ellie" and this is not a story about "Zombies" Is an story about humanity where nobody is special...,,Thanks fot this beautiful experience ND I dont know if anything I play after this is going to be this amazing.
1117) Amazing throughout. Most of the other reviews are tinted by personal/political views, and they are not directly reviewing the quality of the game, neither technically or entertainment-wise.,Just buy it, and enjoy it as a video game and nothing else.
1118) This game shows you what real world survival is like.  People you love disappear, leaders and those you trust let you down, and even the best get trapped by their own idea of what they "have" to do.  I'm no expert on video games, (I'm bad at them actually, however I do love them) but the story and characters here prove video games are an art form.  No doubt.,Enough philosophy, the gameplay is basically close to the original, if you enjoyed desperately searching for supplies, crouching in a corner trying to fix yourself up before a clicker gets you, and exploring busted up areas of a city (all of this is gorgeous by the way) you won't be disappointed.,Play it yourself and make your own opinion.
1119) It's pretty simple - both TLOU games are undoubtedly some of the best games ever made. If you think the story was poor, or there was no payoff or whatever, then you didn't understand it.  You completely missed the message. Play it again and pay attention this time.
1120) The story is excellent. It's clearly more mature than many people can handle. If you can't handle adult content, stay away. If you're not overly sensitive or a big baby, then you'll understand you're experiencing something special. This game is clearly in the conversation of the most beautiful and engaging games of all time, along with the prequel. Ignore all of the bad reviews... I'm willing to bet 9/10 of them didn't even play it.. They probably just watched a lame youtube playthrough.
1121) I hope that those jumping on the review bombing bandwagon can look back in time and realize that the best way to experience a game and form an opinion is on your terms, not by reading others reviews and opinions first.  The story is not meant to be cookie cutter and what people would expect out of a typical action game, it explores complex themes with flawed characters.,,After playing, give a listen to the official The Last of Us Podcast, with in depth interviews from the team that spent 7 years making the game, they talk about why choices were made, and even talk about other options they explored (many of which are recommended by complainers) and why they weren't used.
1122) I love ellie and I love the last of us part 2 however playing with abby is something that I do not like at all and the end of ellie seemed very sad to be the last of us that could be the last, but I stay with him time and moments spent with playing with ellie and it is an unforgettable experience.
1123) It's a fantastic game. A fantastic graphic, a fantastic history. It's my favorite game with the first "The Last Of Us".
1124) Amazing follow up to the original title, the story was great and multiple viewpoints added to the depth. I thoroughly enjoyed the game and the final acts really hit hard. I understand some of the criticism but none of it deserves negative scores it has. It takes a bit of critical thinking and extrapolation on the players part but it is an amazing story and narrative.
1125) This was The best game I've EVER played. The People Who critized this game were, in my opinion, unfair and driven by their biases. .,This game is NOTHING Like the people who criticize it, because of political so called reasons. It is an incredible work of art and deserves to be seen as such. I've seen people critizing because of the cult, buy we see unreasonnable groups that are NOT religious at all (the wolves and the police). I dont know why people were so unfair to this game, was it because Ellie is a lesbian? She was already since the first game and why is that a problem? I dont get it.  This game was amazing, gamers    congratulações!! .,Gamers.... **** congratulations!!!!,.
1126) Master piece. By far, became my favorite game.,Never thought  a game could do something like this, i loved the first part but this one is so much better.
1127) The gameplay is 10/10. Story fits the theme. I understand not all fans will agree but the game sure deserves best game of the year. Story is realistic.
1128) This is a heartfelt song to story telling in a medium that rarely tells real stories that take real risks with real characters. You can not compare this to other games. If you go in expecting another story of redemption and hope you missed the point of the first game and you will surely miss the point of this one. This is a story of falling and fighting for meaning and revenge. It shows its player what it means to be a flawed human dragged forward by instinct and rage. It balances the scales of war in a way no war game has and forces you to look inside yourself to discover your own values. This game asks you to feel the experience of its characters.,,If you want an escape, this game is not for you. If you want a superficial philosophical thought experiment this game is not for you. If you want to feel (not just watch, not just play through) what it means to live through the tragedy of a world with no heroes, this game deserves your time.
1129) I think we don't have to talk about graphics or gameplay, which both were great. TLOU2 was a roller coaster of emotions and I never experienced such feelings in any game before. That's the thing making it a masterpiece.
1130) Never has a game physically and mentally affected me the way that this games story has. I felt grief, anger, sadness, and confusion all within my 20 or so hour run of the game. I applaud Naughty Dog for telling such a risky story and for actually getting me to sympathize with a character I thought I’d always hate. I personally loved this game and i can easily say that it’s one of my favorite games of all time.
1131) Deep story. Amazing graphic. Wonderful characters.,The game is full of details, action and feelings.,Well written and the cutscenes are better than a movie. I LOVE IT. Please make more games like this!
1132) One of the best games I've played and entering my tip favorite game list. I honestly loved it, I cried, laughed and felt confused since it tries its best to make you feel empathy and feel at a loss of what to do and regret what you've done and it does an excellent job at it. K understand the ending was bad for many people, that it was all for nothing, but it wasnt at all, Ellie just had about enough of aññ the hatred and darkness in the world.
1133) Please play the game before giving it a score :/ it's good you guys are just trolls.
1134) It was amazing I went through the game for the second time and I can not get away from this masterpiece I really liked the game I advise you to play it
1135) I really loved this game! Everything about this game is just perfect: the gameplay, the story, the graphics, the soundtrack. The combat is much more engaging and gory than the the first. New stealth mechanics such as going prone and crafting suppressers should’ve been in the first game but are a very welcome addition nevertheless. The infected encounters top the first game in how scary and nerve wracking they are. The human enemy AI is still dumb relative to some other games, however they utilize interesting new mechanics such as checking corners and using each other’s names to check up on each other. Graphics are the best of any PS4 game yet. HDR feels as if you are playing on next gen hardware. I did notice some issues with film grain, however it was pretty rare and hardly noticeable. Ok lets talk story now. I can see why the story is one of the most polarizing stories in a while. The writers took many risk with some of the returning characters and in the new ones. However, in my opinion, the story was mind blowing due to how well it was done. Naughty Dog did yet another great job at putting the characters in very tough situations and moral dilemmas. We see Ellie mature and her relationships with the people around her get complicated, especially with Joel. I have heard many people say that certain characters are only there for political correctness and “social justice”, which is a very ridiculous and childish argument to me. I thought the cast of characters was very interesting, some people just get very triggered when they feel like a group of people besides theirs is getting represented for once. Many people had a huge problem with the deaths/ nondeaths of certain characters and made huge arguments on why said characters did/ did not deserve their fates. To that I say, in the world of the game (and in real life), it does not matter if you are a good person or a bad person, fate does not care. Plenty of good people die every single day, so imagine a world where violence is the norm and mindless cannibals roam the country. I would be laying if I said that a certain character didn’t “have it coming” due to their gray moral compass and their dangerous past and you would be a fool if you didn’t think that their wrongdoings would eventually catch up to them. But thats all I’m going to say for now in regards to the story. Overall, this is one of the best games I have every played and the best game I’ve played since part 1. Looking forward to starting my 2nd play through on grounded!
1136) The game is a masterpiece if I gotta be honest. But only smart and wise people would understand that. And the game being all about revenge and forgiveness only shows who from us is capable of forgiveness and only those who don’t seek revenge see the deep meaning of the game. But those who were pissed at the end because they didn’t get their revenge and were pissed that Ellie was alone wellll that is the truth, that’s what happens when you seek revenge. Still her forgiving Abby in the end was a lesson for her. And she knew that she won’t benefit nothing from it. She was also just confused and she did what Joel was doing going after everyone who he crosses paths with. But in the End Ellie grew and moved on, and she let go which is a big moment that we need to appreciate and yes she did realize that in the end but still. And even if she did kill Abby and went back home being “proud” of it or whatever otherwise she still would be left alone. Because Dina couldn’t bare with it she choose vengeance over family and that she as heartbreaking for Dina. So in both of the cases happy ending is impossible but this sad ending was a lesson. And the game was so beautiful to be honest he fact that people didn’t pay attention to graphics and sound and detail and everything that ND had to offer and instead people payed attention to the BAD WRITTEN STORY/ENDING. Which is not true just some people didn’t understand the meaning of it
1137) Don't believe the negative "hype" . It's a great game with a great story about hate and blind revenge leads nowhere, just to lose  friends, family, love and 2 fingers:). Try it, and you will find that Abby isn't an evil monster, just a girl who made wrong decisions like Ellie:) . What's more : game mechanics, combat are excellent.
1138) Quite possibly the best game of this generation. Its an incredible experience start to finish.
1139) Honestly, I have no idea why people are giving this game a 0. I actually cancelled my pre-order because of this review bombing crap but my friend insisted on me playing it.,The game is **** amazing, the story is well written and brings a lot of emotions that frankly I dont get to experience with other video games. Me and my fiancee literally didn't do anything else after work other than playing this game because the story simply hooks you in.,I can't come up with another reason for the review bombs other than political fanatism. You guys really think this is about libtard agenda? Lol grow up you incels.,I used to think only SJW were annoying, but after seeing the comment section of this game, I realized right winged **** are just as annoying, if not more
1140) The Last of Us Part II is the perfect combination of an excellent Hollywood movie with a fat budget with fun and flowing gameplay. The phenomenal writing will touch every player and won't leave an eye dry of tears. Combat and exploration are challenging and lead the player to use creativity and improvisation. A real masterpiece and a must-have for every PS4 owner
1141) My longest game session was twelve hours straight. I even dreamed of the game, woke up in the morning with the thought of wanting to plunge into this world again immediately. I was so captivated by The Last of Us Part 2. I have never experienced this in a video game in this intensity before.
1142) One of the best, if not the best, game I've player in my 30 years as a gamer. Really don't onderstand the hate this is receiving.
1143) This sequel to Last of Us continues the roller coaster ride I enjoyed in the first with its own twists and turns that took me by surprise. A bold narrative choice to play the story of the killer of a beloved main character will unsettle a lot of fans, but I found this to be unique and gripping. The story forces you to question what is right and wrong when the world goes into violent, apocalyptic chaos. Gameplay is the same model as the first but with many quality of life improvements. I found myself engrossed in this world once again caring about characters old and new. Honestly this game delivered emotion much more effectively than most movies I've seen in recent years. If you enjoyed the first, i highly reccomend you give this sequel a shot. Interpret the impressively cinematic story for yourself, don't let negative reviews prevent you from experiencing this ride completely.
1144) Groundbreaking game in terms of gameplay, graphics, and story. Takes the idea of the first game and flips it on its head.
1145) An absolute masterpiece. Fantastic story and rewarding gameplay. You probably won't enjoy the story if you only enjoy straightforward simple narrative with black and white characters (and there is nothing wrong with that) so if that's your cup of tea don't expect much from the story. Definitely pick this game up and give it a go. Worth the money and might even make you think.
1146) I think its much darker than Part one. Nur totally worth its money. I paid füll Prince and I'd so ist again.
1147) This game is about change and letting go.,,We see Ellie going after Abby with a clear intention to kill her and avenge Joel.,Ellie is full of pain, guilt, anger, and a sense of terrible loss.,,She goes for a killing spree without any second thoughts.,When she finally gets to face off with Abby she clearly is defeated but spared because of Lev’s intervention.,,Ellie then tries to forget the whole story and let it go by moving in with Dina and JJ, hoping they will fill the void inside.,But she still suffers from panic attacks and keeps seeing Joel’s crushed face.,,When Ellie goes after Abby for the second time and finally gets to her she witnesses how tortured and exhausted Abby and Lev are.,She tries to simply let them go, but sees Joel’s disfigured face again and decides to finish Abby off.,,While strangling Abby she sees a flashback of alive Joel with a guitar and it stops her.,(She actually remembers that whole flashback we see at the end, where she says she will try to forgive Joel),,Ellie then says, “Just take him”, referring to Lev.,She realizes that Abby and Lev are like Joel and Ellie before and that the actual murder will not bring her peace, it will just leave another kid without a ‘parent figure’ and perpetuate the cycle of hate.
1148) Truly a feat in storytelling. TLOU2 is a story about the price of hatred and forces the player to confront their perception of morality
1149) Absolute Masterpiece! Truly a game changer and I absolutely loved this title.
1150) The best game in history! The plot deserves an Oscar. No, this game deserves at least 10 major Oscar awards. Darn you those haters! If you don't know how to respect women and minority groups, then you have no right to voice!
1151) The Last of Us Part II is the perfect combination of an excellent Hollywood movie with a fat budget with fun and flowing gameplay. The phenomenal writing will touch every player and won't leave an eye dry of tears. Combat and exploration are challenging and lead the player to use creativity and improvisation. A real masterpiece and a must-have for every PS4 owner.
1152) This game is spectacular. A lot of people have a problem with how the story uses post-modern structures, but to me it made me enjoy the game more. Jumping through time as two characters really nails home the emotions that our protagonists go through throughout the story. Without saying too much, the story is heart stopping and the gameplay is jaw dropping. From fear and sadness, to happiness or excitement; every emotion comes to play in the epic tale of revenge and sympathy. Haters of the game failed to understand the games dual narrative structure which was used to juxtapose two strong opposing characters to help the audience realize that the two aren't so different after all.
1153) Such a perfect game. Flawless graphics and such a beautiful story. Couldn’t be more sad and scared in my life it was perfect! Replay on New Game+
1154) Great ! Great ! Great ! Great ! Great ! Great ! Great ! Great ! Great ! Great ! Great !
1155) Such a long wait for this game, and this game is totally worth it! the gameplay is so much fun, the graphic was amazing, and also the story contains a very deep meaning.,10/10 for this game!
1156) This game is awesome. The history, the gaming dynamics, graphics, how to understand the different characters... Basically magnific! I don't undertand the bad ratings of some people.
1157) Not what I expected.. ..but that‘s the Reason why it is a Masterpiece!,If you are searching for a Game with a „Happy End“ in a post apocalypse Scenario, or invincible Superhero like Main Characters. Then you should Go back and play your ordinary Garbage.
1158) The game is great! The story is a grand tale about revenge, violence, and empathy.  The game not only depicts these characters struggling with their ability to empathize with their enemy, it asks the player if they can do the same.. The game-play, although not a huge jump from the first game, is perfectly balanced and well-paced...  The graphics are amazing, as is some of the gorgeous scenery found in every location in the game...,,I understand people's issue with their decision to use such beloved characters to tell this particular story with these particular themes..  But in the end, it was Naughty Dog's choice to tell the story they wanted to tell and I, for one, am glade they did..
1159) It’s the game of this genre. The story is breathtaking, the gameplay is perfect and most of all the feelings this game gives to you are unique. Many people will find some choices in the storyline annoying but that’s the way to give you all this feelings. It’s the reason everybody loved (except from the last season) Game of Thrones despite of the disturbing facts in the storyline. Excellent game and a game that every genuine gamer should play.
1160) For me, this game is Masterpiece. I rate this game 10/10, the best game I have ever playied on PS4.
1161) This game makes you feel things that you've never felt before in any medium. It's an amazing experience and a roller coaster ride of emotions. It's just a flat out masterpiece in every sense of the word. Not every game story needs to leave you witha warm and fuzzy feeling on the inside. The story and writing is of exceptional quality. I played on Hard and it was just amazing. It's in the top 2 best games of the Generation imo. Loved it, very much.
1162) Absolutely unforgettable. An overwhelming, utterly singular experience. I absolutely loved the original but they have surpassed it here in part 2 in every way. I cannot for the life of me figure out what some folks are complaining about, but I'll leave that alone I guess.,At the risk of falling prey to recency bias, this might be the best game I've ever played. It is certainly unlike any game I can recall, even its predecessor. I don't know if it makes any sense, but I was so spellbound at times I felt like I was playing in VR even though I wasn't. The story is incredibly compelling (and yet so painful), the attention to detail is staggering, the characters voiced so wonderfully well that every story beat lands like a ton of bricks.,I run out of superlatives. The environments are difficult to believe for current gen, and the sense of immersion in this ruined world with its deeply damaged characters is almost overpowering. My only real critique of this game is that it verges at times on overkill, by which I mean there is sometimes too much of everything, and the game shouts at times where it have whispered. Having said that, this feeling is possibly a result in part of my playing on survivor, so YMMV.,On a more general note, I am very grateful to everyone involved in this game for the bravery they showed in the writing of this story. There are no compromises here, no laziness or fan-service. The result is extraordinarily painful at multiple points yes, but it is also that rarest of things, a narrative that is as moving as any film or novel I've ever experienced, asking probing and often unwelcome questions about the way we judge others and are deeply invested in our own righteousness. I hope, in time, to see part 3 in some form. Thank you, TLOU!
1163) Best game I’ve ever played! Don’t listen to the immature gamers because truly this game is a masterpiece. Everything about it is magnificent
1164) Amazing! Perfect!  Everyone needs to play this game with an open mind! This game is insane
1165) Excellent! The game is mind bottling. I cant belive how good the graphics, sound, and technical aspects of the game are. Really pushing the ps4 to the limit. And naughty dog has put in so many small animations and work into the details of the world. Very immersive This is the best game in have ever played
1166) Well Naughty Dog did it again. A stellar way to follow up what i thought was the greatest game of all time. All the combat, gunplay, stealth mechanics are better than the first...and having the love and connection with the story from first really makes the second that much better. I thought it was really cool how Naughty Dog told the story from two points of view. Once ellie kills  and owen you get straight into abby’s story right up to that point. At first, it seems uninspiring, who wants to play as the antagonist, especially the one who killed one of the most well crafted characters of all time, Joel. But slowly Naughty Dog shows you her story and who Abby is, and for a while I wanted Abby to kill Ellie, then Ellie to kill Abby, and back and forth. I have never like an “antagonist” so much and loved the way Naughty Dog was able to make such a complex story with so many emotions going on.
1167) This is a very well made game with a compelling story that twists and turns in powerful ways. Gameplay is engaging and the story is told in tense movie like quality. My wife and I loved it. One of the best games I have played. People rating this game any less than an 8 are wrapped up in some nonsense that has nothing to do with the game.
1168) Perfect! Perfect! Perfect! Perfect! Perfect; perfect! Perfect! Perfect! Perfect!
1169) Well, this game definitely won't make you happy, and it's not meant to, because this is a cruel, uncompromising story about revenge and its consequences. But it's still one of the best games I have ever played both in terms of gameplay and plot and I'm not even going to tell you how good it is visually. So i think everyone should at least give this game a try, because if you don't you will lose a lot. And don't listen to all those crybabies who have played the game for only a couple of hours and are already writing their angry reviews simply because they did not like the ONE single scene at the beginning of the game and who did not even try to continue playing and figure everything out
1170) The last of us 2 is one of the best games I've ever played. Thanks to Naughty Dog you did a great job
1171) Another best game from the naughty dog. Yes, this story will not be to everyone's taste, many will condemn the creators, many will not understand. But it's still a good sequel.
1172) Absolute masterpiece that finally pushes the medium forward instead of pandering to whiny "gamers". The viceral effect left me breathless at times. The story is just perfect.
1173) I've been playing games for 28 years, but no game has ever hit me so emotionally.  The story is very sad and dark, but it is a fascinating experience.  I want to thank Naughty Dog and tell all the players, this deserves your attention, this is an exceptional work.
1174) Never before have I been toyed with on such an emotional level before this game. Despite the fact that most sequels do not meet or even surpass the quality of their predecessors, I do believe that Naughty Dog outdid themselves with this game.,,Everything about this game is fabulous, beginning to end. The first Ellie portion of the game is even better than the story of The Last of Us, and once you finish the game you are hit with this feeling of understanding as all the dots are finally connected, which was done in a way that leads me to the conclusion that this game rivals - if not surpasses - the first game in every way.
1175) Finished the game yesterday and wow, honestly spectacular. I'm not a fanboy per se - I actually came into the game a little bit on the skeptical side, thinking it might be overhyped. I enjoyed TLOU1 back in the day, but I'm a little jaded after years of AAA titles not *quite* living up to expectations. I was happily surprised -- this game thrilled and surprised me in ways that few games do these days.,,A few highlights, for me:,- Gameplay: the gameplay itself is *so* well-executed. Everything "feels" great - movements and actions have real weight to them, and it's a breeze to move through the world and take down enemies. The core mechanics of this game are near-perfect, and so ultimately it's a joy to play.,- The incredible immersion (+ superb attention to detail):  This may not seem super important, but right after I finished TLOU2 I went into Ghost of Tsushima (another AAA title) and realized -- wow, TLOU2 is in a completely different league when it comes to the "little touches" that add to the realism and feel of the game. A lot of this is in the way the characters move. Reaching for an item, switching weapons, opening up drawers, vaulting over obstacles -- all of these are just *perfectly*, dynamically animated. There are barely any cutscene breaks, nearly everything happens "in-engine" without breaking immersion.,- The story: I played through the game without first reading about the controversy, and FWIW I loved the story. It felt original, surprising, and fresh. I don't want to dismiss anyone's opinions, but candidly it feels like much of the backlash to the story is rooted in feeling shocked and dismayed by a key narrative choice, and wanting to invalidate the entire story because it doesn't give them the fan-service they were looking for. The story *is* shocking and upsetting, but for me, it completely worked. It's certainly emotionally gut-wrenching, and I think maybe that's too much for some people to process.,,I'll stop there for now, but just want to say THANK YOU to the TLOU2 team. This game felt like a real labor of love, and it's honestly hard to move onto other games after this. I'll be thinking about this game for a long time - for me, it's one of the gold standards.
1176) The best game I have ever played. I never felt so many mixed emotions. It makes you hate, reflect, think and above all suffer. Never a game made me feel so much, and for that I am grateful.
1177) I started playing the game 3 days before my father’s Memorial Day. It’s 14 years since he’s gone. He was a great man and passed away on speed. Before his death my parents fell out due to his mistakes as a family man and he had been living apart from us for 6 months. The saddest thing was that we never really appreciated him, despite his several mistakes as a husband and father, and that we didn’t live together when this happened.,And I couldn’t be more shocked when I finished the game on the 29th of July, 4 hours into the Memorial Day. I couldn’t be more schooled how this game and its complexity corresponded with my feelings. I blamed mom, I blamed his drunk friends who let him sit in the car, I blamed everyone. But overtime I realized just as Ellie that we should just let go. And it’s been 2 days I’ve crying these tears, never as much as I used at the fall of July.,10/10, thank you for the game, Naughty Dog.
1178) Definitely a game changer in terms of gameplay and storytelling, people who've rated low is due to some major story decisions about our favorite characters, but there is a lot of depth which cannot be analyzed fully just from surface. Two times play is a must. Please experience this beauty and encourage creation of such risktaking, stellar  single player games instead of bs like Call of Duty and Ubisoft yearly installment games adding zero value year on year
1179) The story in this game was amazing. My 10/10 rating is not enough, it should be a 20/10! People have to consider the fact that life sometimes doesn't go the way you want it too. Did we all want that farmhouse ending? of course, but all in all, the writing in this game play was simply a masterpiece.
1180) Incredible game it took some balls for naughty dog to go this way with the story but they pulled it off brilliantly!
1181) Outstanding. By the end of it I felt like I had been through something traumatic and a week later I am still processing it. A game about grief and everything that comes with it including anger but also compassion. Fantastic writing, graphics, and story telling. Loved Ellie and Dina's relationship, it felt so authentic. Please let there be a TLOU3!
1182) An absolutely gorgeous game complete with an emotionally gripping storyline, and stunning graphics. At first I was hesitant to play The Last Of Us: Part 2 because of the horrible reviews by many gaming icons, but eventually I decided it was an experience I couldn’t miss out on. When I first started the game I was stunned by how beautiful it looked, and despite some heart wrenching twists and turns in the story I am enjoying it thoroughly. Hating on a game because of something that occurs within it which you didn’t want to happen is a very stupid thing to do, and I can only hope it didn’t scare away potential players.
1183) A stunning exploration of grief, survivor's guilt, violence, hate, and love. Much like its dual protagonists, this sequel and its predecessor make for a perfectly matched set. The tone, themes, and character work of the first game are expanded on and made that much richer through this story. Gameplay is much snappier than the original's, and the variety of options for both stealth and combat—as well as the variety of environments and set pieces—ensures that no two encounters feel the same. Visually, everything from the character models to the animation to the cinematography to the environmental design work so well that it can turn the in-game photo mode into a game all its own. If The Last of Us Part II isn't a 10/10 for me, then I can't imagine a game that ever could be.
1184) Amazing experience. The storytelling defines the new standard for future games.
1185) I gave this game my first 10/5 the graphics to the music to the gameplay everything is just amazing and don’t get me started on the story WOW.
1186) I have just finished this game. I am sitting and looking at the screen. I am stunned. This is how I wanted this game to be. In my opinion hate is absolutely groundless. I think those people did not finnish this game, have not even played it or they did not understand it. I am very proud that developers made something that divided fans almost exactly on half. This game is a masterpiece. This is what had to be done.
1187) Fantastic game!! Don't listen to any of the other bad user reviews. They just mad their favorite character came out as gay. So they are unfairly picking apart the game and specifically looking for something negative to say about it.
1188) The best game I have ever seen in terms of grapics, story, atmosphere and characters!! I enjoyed every minute of it! Even playing from multiple perspectives. A game, or any story, that can make you have such strong emotions towards a character, be it good or bad emotions  is an amazing game.,Isn’t this what we all search for? Why we read books or play games? To be immersed in a good story?(and i don’t mean happy ending kind of story - you can watch cartoons or read summer romance books if you are after that) A story, the way the author envisioned it, might not go the way we want it always but we need to appreciate a masterpiece! You will not regret playing this game or spending money on it. Even if just for the amazing life-like scenery created by the graphics engine. The story is made so it stirs emotions in you, and it will not let you down either.,I do suggest you do not rush this game. I believe a huge portion of the reviews were rushed in a frenzy to be the first ones to comment and review it. Enjoy the game, it’s not made to be a competition of who finishes it faster. Give yourself time to process the emotions that you will feel through the story.  You are mad because the story didn’t go your way, or happy because it did - pause it for a few hours, go enjoy the feelings this amazing game can stir in you! Don’t drink it all in one go like some cheap wine getting drunk and blaming your hangover on it. This game is like a great wine that is better drank with moderation to be able to fully savor the taste and emotions.,PS: if you are emotionally unstable and insecure about your manhood that a female only protagonist can cause such rage and hatred maybe you have bigger problems in your life than worrying about a game. Just saying.
1189) It s tlou not unchurted. U ll recive a punch in your chest and u ll cry for all the pain due to a story perfectly written and a well designed game
1190) The last of us 2 is a masterpiece both technically and in its storytelling. Some might think that the revenge driven story is a bit light, but if you invest time and emotions in the game you will not be dissapointed.,Visuals, sounds, level design and actors are just stunning. And it ranks as the number 1 game for me regarding graphics and sound design.,I did not want to play Abby, because I had no sympathy for her, but how wrong I was. Abby is in many ways "a better human" than Ellie.,The ending left almost left my crying and I was very surprised that the game continued after Dina and Ellie arrive at the farm.,Do not believe the haters The Last of us 2 i a must play !
1191) Graphics 9,5,some bugs and 30 fps but everthinbg else is far superior.,Gameplay: 8,The gamplay feels a bit dated.  I'm getting tired to move containers from A to B some invisible walls. The gunplay is outstaning, Physics are awesome,Story: 10,Most complex and mature story in gaming history. let your mind free from any agenda and just enjoy a story where there is not just black and white
1192) Breathtaking game with an amazing story. No matter what everyone says. If you have played part 1 this is a must play game
1193) Phenomenal game. It can either end here, or continue with a third game should they choose. I felt that there were some pacing issues and the ending (s) seemed to go on forever like Lord of the Rings... But it was satisfying once I got there for real.  The art in this game is unmatched. Really great job by the team. I really felt for the characters as well. The writing was very well done. I didn't want to like Abby at all, but in the end I was glad they went that route and had you see everything from her perspective. The multiple flashbacks were a little confusing but they tied it up well.
1194) This is game isn’t good for me because I like first part of this game. But I want good raining for this game.
1195) One of the best Games I've played so far. Brave storytelling. Amazing graphics and a grippling atmosphere. Loved it!!!
1196) Genius, smart, mature and a true courageus game, maybe the best game of all time, it's a real masterpice in every damm aspect, technically perfect, an experience that delivrey the most amplitude and variety of feelings!! AMAZING!!
1197) A masterpiece. Unlike anything I played. Btw if your an open minded person you’ll love this game if your close minded just don’t even bother.
1198) First I read the spoilers and felt that I don’t want to play it. But then I bought the game anyway and played it through. It was actually really really good.
1199) According to many scholars throughout history, one can gauge a culture based on two metrics, intelligence and empathy. The vitriolic push-back against a brilliant the brilliant philosophical challenge presented in The Last of Us: Part II confirms for me what I had suspected for quite some time now...western civilization is lacking in the ability to understand more than a single side to a story...and by and large, possesses the IQ normally reserved for an animal...cracker.,,Well done Naughty Dog, all the artists, cast, designers, writers, and musicians for producing a masterful example of a balanced and compelling account of the true cost of vengeance, a game in which there are no winners and everyone pays to play, like it or not.,,For those who struggle to grasp this, read more...please. The simple act of reading a work of fiction inherently guides the mind to consider all sides of situations, putting one's self in the shoes of another. I suppose this should not come as a surprise, given the state of things in the world...but it is still disappointing that so many find it impossible to broaden their scope and view the humanity of others.,,Pax
1200) This game is a masterpiece of the PS4 era. Graphics look like next gen. Attention to detail is incredible. Storyline is surprising, captivating and thought provoking. Gameplay is really fun and the changing environments and levels means it doesn't feel repetitive. I'll replay it and I never do that. I don't think I've experienced a game on this level before. And it's a good thing that I have finished it cos I think if I talked about it for much longer my wife was going to move out.,,I don't really understand the haters — basically it seems some people are simply way too attached to specific characters and where they think a story should predictably go. The same sort of people who thought the fan-service given at the end of Game of Thrones was awesome.,,Others are just bigots.,,And I think it's likely that neither of them want to admit it. So they claim there are plot holes or that there are gameplay glitches or some other BS  to explain why they're not happy.,,The only valid reason I've really heard for why some people don't like it is that it is extremely bleak. If you're easily depressed or get too emotional. Perhaps Spyro the Dragon remaster would be a better option.
1201) The Last of Us Part II is the perfect combination of an excellent Hollywood movie with a fat budget with fun and flowing gameplay
1202) This game left me speechless by the end credits. It made me laugh, made me cry and made me angry all in the span of a few minutes. A real rollercoaster ride of emotion that I have not felt since the first iteration but I feel this is even more so. I know it has received a lot of hate from fans but personally speaking I do not think those criticisms are justified.,,The gameplay is both fluid and brutal and is a huge step up from the first title. Graphically speaking it is without peer and the level of detail is out of this world amazing.,,As a game about love, hate and loss and the consequences from ones actions combined with all the technical flourishes makes this game a flawless experience. I spent 41 hours with it almost reaching Platinum and now into new game plus, so I know the game inside and out and it was just an incredible experience for me.,,I would highly recommend this if you are into brutal arthouse or grindhouse films/games. It was marketed as mainstream but it really isn't, I equate to films like 8mm or Ichi the Killer, brutal but brilliant at the same time.
1203) To everyone whom played video games before for fun, and for deep diving into a game's story, this will be a masterpiece, It is a game that grows no matter what, the main character (of the past part) gets killed in the first steps of the game yet the game still holds it together, 5hen emotions happen and suddenly you play the opposite side of the story, and without wanting it .. you actually feel sympathetic for both.. it is by far the best real life game experience that shows you that everything in life has two sides whether you like it or not.. the within all that, the world actually grows , as nature doesn't care to our feelings .. it simply goes by them
1204) Loved it! Developers did an amazing job. Actors too! Beautiful game. Ignore the review bombers!
1205) a truly beautiful game that blurs the lines between protagonist and antagonist. Don't listen to the haters. while i do believe that some people are disappointed in the game most of the bad reviews came once the fan review was enabled. Anyway yes it is a long game and can be a drag in some parts but you will easily lose yourself in the game. A worthy successor to a decade-defining game.
1206) Absolutely mesmerizing!,I never enjoyed playing a game such i did for TLOU2.,A lot of twists in the story that makes you question your understanding of the characters.,A must play with no doubt !
1207) I really enjoyed my multiple playthroughs of this game. This was the dark and emotional story that I was expecting ND to deliver. The game is beautiful and the story is so well written. The score and the acting like the first entry are incredible. I highly recommend this to anyone who loved the first game. The events that unfold in the story may not be what you wanted but don’t let that cloud your judgement of the full story being told. I’m so glad I avoided spoilers for the game. I feel very bad for the players who had the story spoiled for them before playing.
1208) A real masterpiece even after they have spoiled the game. It may be sad seeing Joel die at the begining of the game but eventually the story makes sense
1209) This game is amazing. I can’t believe that there are so many trolls reviewing this game and creating fake metacritic accounts to feed into the bad reviews... so sad. This game really challenges the player to play outside of their comfort zone and to experience emotions and decisions that are hard. To play actually this game and to watch a stream of someone playing is completely different. Do not review a game based on a stream. Naughty dog really has the player experience and make the hard decisions in the game and thats what makes this game so good.
1210) Work of art, 10/10. The story and perception of justice landed so well that I dont understand the whole backlash thing. Worth every minute of my life. First game I cried by the end. Masterpience.
1211) Such a masterpiece, excelent work from ND, this a well done story that show you the human cruelty and the results of your bad decisions, Ellie shows a really great growth at the end of the game
1212) The game is a masterpiece. Every second of the 30-hour experience is expertly crafted. Story is open to discussion but Last of Us Part II is technically the top of the industry.
1213) I think the outrage at first seemed reasonable. And I remember having a lot of stuff spoiled for me before I ever played the game. That being said, I tried to keep an open mind. When I got to the Abby part of the game I began her journey being like "This is okay, but whatever." By the end of her journey, however, I felt like they had fleshed out a character that I could feel and sympathize with and I found her section actually really interesting. Ending the game on Ellie is incredible, however, and the final scenes of the game are some of the most moving. If you have not played it the whole way through or kinda gave up on Abby, give it a fair shot and play to the end. At least to see how you feel.
1214) Beyond masterpiece. Don’t miss out because of personal prejudice or hearsay from the leaks. This is a work of art and I felt like a better human after having consumed it.
1215) From the spoilers I saw through twitter prior to release, I was a bit hesitant to buy the game. I decided to preorder anyway since I loved the first and I’m so glad I did. Please take the criticism circling around the game with a grain of salt and play it yourself. If you actually play the full game and let the story develop along with gameplay, you’re in for a great ride. There are highs and lows but that’s with any great story. The visuals, characters, voice acting, and different styles of combat are enough reason to love the game even if you aren’t a big fan of the story. I highly recommend.
1216) This game is horribly underappreciated by those thousands of "fans" who aren't able to understand what Naughty Dog intends to be the whole point of the game, while feeling entitled to a sequel that applies to their expectations.,And for those claiming that the leaks ruined the game, they just failed to judge the game for what it is, and not for what surrounds it. And, for starters, what kind of a real fan willingly interests his/herself on spoiling the game's plot?,Anyways, the game itself is just fantastic. It exceeds amazingly in showing us how biased we can all be in terms of loving a character. It shows us what Joel's actions in the first game meant in a living and organic world. It puts us on perspective for the consequences of those terrible things we helped  in doing on the first game.,Granted, the story is not at all an easy pill to swallow, and it requires and open mind to understand the point and meaning behind it all. Overall, Naughty Dog accomplished what no other game, movie or show has made me feel about a story, and that's what's unique and special about this game, and why it truly deserves the title of masterpiece despite all the undeserved "leak rage " and unfair reviews.
1217) The Last of Us Part II is definitely the best game of this generation, and THE best I have ever had the fortune to play. Beautiful, poignant, and heartbreaking, this is a video game that takes us deep into the trenches of human violence and its costs—but in a way that doesn’t feel pretentious. 10/10.
1218) Greetings and Salutations everyone!  It's everyone's favorite doctor who can write prescriptions and plays what the kids call video games and today i'm going to review one of the best games I ever had a chance to get my grubby mitts on-The Last of Us 2!,,First off, I would not rate this game a 10, id probably give it a 9.6-9.7 so very close but not quite there. Anywho, I want to say this game starts off hot with a straight emotional gut punch that I definitely didn't expect.  It gave me a dejected feeling like some of my all-time favorite TV shows and movies do.  Was it something that I wanted to happen? Absolutely not, but by doing so I knew I was in for a hot-blooded, distinguished experience that has never struck such an emotional response during my 30 years of playing video games.,,The other thing that made TLOU2 such a transcendent experience was its set pieces and whoa nelly where these amazing!  While Telltale's season 1 of Walking Dead may rival TLOU2 in pulling on your heart strings, the set pieces in this game has no such rival....and its not even close.  There were times while playing where my kisser fell to my gullet and I just pondered to myself, "Gollie, I will never forget that, that was awesome as PETE!"  If there is perfection in a game, these set pieces were it, especially for us survival horror fans.  Now I played my whole first playthrough on survivor so my experience may have been a bit different than other humans but there were moments where I would be running for my life, barely surviving and getting through by the skin of my taint with a pinch of luck thrown in there.  What's is even more impressive is there are 6-7 of these experience.  Most games can't produce one experience half as heart pounding in a trilogy of games so the fact that TLOU2 was able to do it and keep doing it throughout the game is mind-bogging and sensational.,,Finally the last thing that made this game stand out above all other games was the fact that it could keep all the combat encounters unique.  So many games eventually start to feel the same, after 5- 10-15 hours, even the really great ones, but TLOU2 always changed up elements to make the fights feel uncommon, I do wish they would have had more human vs human vs monster experiences.  The few they had in the game were incredible because you never felt like you were safe plus you could turn monster(yes I know "monsters" have a real name that starts with a C but i'm to lazy to look it up) on your human enemies which was wildly satisfying!,,TLOU2 also is a beautiful game, it's well written and acted and extremely detailed. Its also a very polished game on day 1 in 2020 considering the size of the game, I think I only had 1 glitch where I got stuck under a deck of a building.  Also its load times are a 10/10, very little wait times between deaths on PsPro-take notes Star Wars Fallen Order.  The story isn't quite as good as the first game and the ending wasn't very satisfying but overall this is one of the greatest games I ever played in my life!  I love it!,,Also I'd like to point out, this game seemed to receive over 150k zeros within the first 24 hours of the game being released and IMO those people rushed through the game and did not take in the gameplay or story  and reflect on it so they could give it a subjective score.  That is what had to happen because the only other thing that could have happened is all these people never even played the game and just gave it a 0 out of spite, fanboyism or bigotry and homophobia but i'm sure that is not the case because that would just be petty and insecure  so I probably should not have even brought that up  I apologize for even suggesting it. Bad Dr Lee!,,Anywho, i'd suggest buying this game in a hot second, its not perfect but its like no game I ever played, fun as the dickens and way ahead of its time, or simply put...an all time classic!
1219) I can understand that fans waited YEARS to play this and if they were disappointed with the story, that's valid. I feel genuine empathy for those people. I loved this game. And I'm glad the actual critics did as well so at least people debating a purchase can have some hope that it will be good. Review-bombing something so harshly is pointless because it discredits the validity of your hate. Even if you hated the story; the gameplay, level design, sound design, pacing, combat and more, were all absolutely supreme to all other games of our generation. I frequently found myself doubling up on animations when running from the genuinely terrifying enemies, but the game didn't glitch out. It never interrupted animations that were triggered overlapping. If you pull out the shotgun, you have to physically pull it off of your back. This added to the visceral realism of the world they created; A truly challenging survival horror. This game will be forever one of the greats. And hopefully after this trendy hate train dies down in a few years, this game will resurface with the love it deserves. Congrats Naughty Dog on not bending over for the ravenous vultures that embody fan culture, and for not giving us a fan-pleasing, unoriginal piece of garbage. Already on my second play through and it's about to be the first game I've ever Platinum'd.
1220) This review contains no spoilers so you can read it if you are not sure to play the last of us part II.At first I gotta say that I watched most of the leaks and almost got disappointed of the story but I believed that NAUTY DOG would never fail in making such a game so I just waited for it to release.Finally the game launched and I bought it two days after.I finished the game twice and I must say that it was one of the best games I ever played.Everything is awesome in this game and you have to play this masterpiece.
1221) I already want to start emphasizing the inclusion of a complete accessibility system, it is very important to remember that there are different people, who need certain adaptations to be able to enjoy a game, and I am very happy to see an AAA game worrying about being accessible to everyone . I hope The Last os Us II will become an example and that accessibility options will become increasingly common in the gaming industry.,,Its soundtrack is as good as that of the first game, and remains an essential element to put the player in the right atmosphere.,,Incredible graphics, and speaking of graphics, I want to emphasize the facial expressions of the characters, some scenes are very beautiful exactly because we clearly see the feelings of the characters through their expressions and looks, not to mention that this adds a lot to the text of the game, since expressions often say much more than words, which ends up enriching the script.,,The gameplay does not innovate much, and this is not a defect, the second game focuses its efforts on improving the gameplay of the first, which is a little out of date these days, and among all the news, the dodge is certainly one of those that more adds to the quality of the gameplay, making it more dynamic, but yes, there are other welcome innovations, such as being able to crouch and swing on ropes, these additions add a vertical factor in the exploration of the scenarios, expanding the player's exploration options. And talking about exploration, I want to highlight the level design that follows the same high quality as the first, the more open scenarios and with this vertical factor make exploration much more engaging and gives a greater sense of freedom, in addition to that, however open it is be the scenario it is not difficult to find the right path.,,The art direction of the game is excellent, the open scenarios bring a mix of destruction and nature in a very convincing and beautiful way, while the more closed and dark scenarios bring us insecurity and melancholy, each scenario has its history, and seeing those sites destroyed, we can feel the lives destroyed after the day of the outbreak.,,It is a strong story that touches feelings that are very deep and difficult to deal with. Its history is dense and makes you finish the thrilling game exhausted. The game manipulates very well what the player "should" feel and if the player gives himself up to the proposal of the game, he will certainly draw valuable lessons. It's such a good story, if not better than the first game, but, unlike the first, this story makes you anguished and sad.,,The main defect is the development of the characters. The game has many new characters and the game manages to develop several of them well, but some end up not having the necessary development, and ends up leaving a sense of wasted potential. Despite this, the game remains excellent.,,(sorry if I have typos, English is not my native language)
1222) This game is amazing its a piece of art create to admire the history, graphics and the music just from thinking of this game gives me goosebumps. Everyone needs to play this game is incredible.
1223) I didn't think it was possible to make a better sequel than the first, but somehow they found a way. Improved in almost every area. I hated the story at first but slowly welcomed it. This is a true masterpiece, cant wait to play it again.
1224) If you play this game seeking for accomplishment, satisfaction, or rejoice, you will be disappointed. You will hate what you see, what you do. You will feel horrified by your own actions. But art is not only beauty and comfort, is it? This game is an art piece.
1225) The last of us part 2 was a best game I ever play in my life! The story the game play was cool and nice
1226) It's really breathtaking. Under every aspects.,From the plot at the graphics.
1227) English is not my first language, so please give me the benefit of the doubt, especially when discussing faith- and LGBTQ-issues.,Every once in a while a person is in a position where they are able to create a cultural artefact that’s a quantum leap above everything else in that artform. It takes a lot of talent, hard work and resources, along with help from other people, but they’re able to create something lasting that brings the culture in which they work forward in a big way. I think Neil Druckmann is in that position, and The last of us (part 1) is one of those quantum leaping artefacts. It tells a story that’s engaging and challenging and wraps it in gameplay that’s equally engaging and challenging and leaves you in that place where good art can’t take you but great art can: emotional uproar, not just satisfaction.,I think The Last of Us Part II is a great game, easily one of the best I’ve played, and a worthy sequel that builds upon the things that made the first game amazing and that also doesn’t shy away from trying to say something about the extremes of the human experience while still portraying things that are too often seen as extremes as completely un-dramatic. It is however a game of two parts: story and gameplay (and of course in many other ways too), and to me those two parts are not equally as impressive this time around.,While the ending in the first game leaves you with an open question, namely whether you too would sacrifice mankind and your daughter’s love to save her life, this sequel leaves you with a much more closed statement, namely that vengeance leads to the destruction of yourself and of that which is dear to you. That’s at the same time more hopeful than the ending of part 1, since at least the characters end up learning something, but also less satisfying since it is a story we have been told many times before, and it doesn’t pull the rug out from under you in the same way. I felt like someone had simultaneously punched me in my stomach and made all other games into childish toys after finishing the first game, and after this I just felt tired and drained and a little bit frustrated. Not because I think the thesis of the game isn’t a valid one, nor because I think I could have done it better myself, but mostly because it has at least three too many endings, and a couple of narrative beats towards the end that felt superfluous to me.,The gameplay part I really liked! It felt awesome to be a badass, both as Ellie and as Abby, and I liked how they made me play differently. Especially I liked how playing as Abby hade me take bigger risks and go in and out of stealth more than when playing as Ellie, where I felt like i failed if anyone saw me. I look forward to starting ng+ and take what I’ve learned from that into a new playthrough and bring a little more confidence.,I didn’t have that much trouble getting through any encounter (except for the damned rat-king...), but I felt like that was because I was playing well and making smart choices about which enemy to go for next and in what way, and not because the game was easy.,I liked making the infected attack my human enemies, but was expecting that kind of mixed encounters to be more frequent.,I’m a bit ambivalent about the open world section. It really stands out as a great place to explore, but I kind of forgot about it quickly after it was over and it feels a little strange to have that “bubble” in an otherwise linear game. Although I can see how it is important to have a little bit of light, almost frothy, adventuring before descending into hell.,I do understand that not everyone wants to have “politics” polluting their gaming experience, and I think that’s a fair point. If I, as a left wing, atheistic swede, played a game that forced me to burn down an abortion clinic, I would question its motives and why the creator felt the need to put that in there. I might even feel a great deal of animosity toward the people involved in making the game. That said, I loved the diversity in this game and how it was just presented as a matter of fact. Prejudices exist in this world, but the story isn’t about them, and in many ways the world has just moved on from them.,Abby’s physique made me think that she was trans, I’ll admit. That misconception was reinforced many times for instance by dialogue, and I’ll even admit that I thought the position she and Owen chose when they had sex was a hint... That’s me being prejudiced and I’ll own up to it and be grateful that this game showed me that I have those prejudices.,To summarize my feelings about this game I would say that it’s on the cusp of being great art, but absolutely one of the greatest games I’ve played.,Thanks for reading this far and may your survival be long!
1228) It's a fantastic game, the story is clever, perhaps to many and to long cuts scenes but in general it's brilliantly made and told. The ratings of zero should all be ignored, imagine how poor a game needs to be to justify that score, so play it and see to realise the user scores are just mob rule, or this group think because its the 'thing' to do.
1229) A masterpiece in video game storytelling. I can't fathom how someone cannot enjoy it.
1230) While i do understand some of the criticism, it wasnt a deal breaker for me. Great game.
1231) Easily in the top 5 games of all time. An absolute masterpiece. The writing, the graphics, the gameplay, the story, the replay value. Fantastic
1232) The best Game i have ever played, the Story is not the best but i like it.,The only thing that i hate on this Game is Dina.
1233) Best game ever GOTY, you NEED to play the game before talking SH!t. This game tell us how bad the human being is in these times...
1234) Fantastic. I rarely finish video games, never in my life have I felt compelled to continue to play after actually completing a game. This one left me feeling.. so many things. No spoilers, don't worry about what others have posted. This is possibly the best game I've ever played. Thank you Naughty dog for making something so interesting. I never expected a video game to take me to these emotional levels, thank you for doing this, and breaking the mold. I hope to see more follow in your footsteps, absolutely loved it.
1235) Incredible, from the start to the end. The story was amazing, the scenarios, music, characters, stages... Everything seemed perfect to me. What people should consider is that this game is about revenge, redemption and a little bit of forgiveness. You can't expect it to be the same story that the part 1 had. You go from light to dark and to light again in matter of seconds.  I think every person that took part in this game should be proud. This is a masterpiece.
1236) This game blowed my mind totally! Its not a cliche game like Uncharted or any other and its upset. This game is like a real horror which hold you in fear from first minute till you piss all water and after it, with heavy emotions. Also it broke your mind with its story turns. I was scared in hospital moment and cryed like a baby asked to take me home to my mom. The game is amazing with its game play and fightings, but too much cutscenes would like to play more not to look movies whole game.,Such amazing grey moral idea but i think more better will be to realize it in other game.,I was very upset to see Ellies sexual contact with her friend. Im not homophobic but this scene with kisses looks ugly, not romantic. Its like a porn... No needed this in games industry also i dont like to see hetero kisses in games it looks ugly too maybe more. This LGBT idea was realized very rough.  And as we can see many people dont like LGBT more and more because of it.,Anyway the game looks beautiful, with its stupid story turns and now smart Ellie.,I played it for 3 times already, now im playing 4th time abd skipping most of story cutscenes.,After this part i think the story of this game is over.,Sad, broken and alone Ellie. Survived and thankful Abby.,I love this game to play. Hope next ND projects will be better and better.,Sad about Joel!!!
1237) The game is easily one of the best in recent years. Technically it feels almost without equal. People need to remember that this is a post-apoclypse world, brutality is around every corner and sentiment counts for nothing. The decision to play half the game as Abby, while jarring is actually enjoyable IMO. I enjoyed Abby and Owens complicated relationship and Lev and Yara were both fantastic. The ending, while hardly uplifting is fitting. That being said the storytelling is not as well done as the original which was nigh on perfection. I would actually give this game 9/10. But seeing as hardly anyone will even read what i am writing here and all the truly ridiculous 0/10 scores i am giving this 10/10 to do my bit to get the meta score up. Anyone giving this game less than 7/10 is just not being truthful IMO.
1238) Excellent game from graphics to story and sound. The story is also good if u play with open mind
1239) I’ve been gaming since before I can remember and this is one of the greatest games I have ever played. It is unparalleled in its ability to craft a narrative that is engaging, tragic, nuanced, and human in a way that demonstrates both the beauty and ugliness of life.
1240) The Last of Us Part II is the perfect combination of an excellent Hollywood movie with a fat budget with fun and flowing gameplay.
1241) A masterpiece. Takes the player on a unforgettable journey through darkness and light. Dont listen to all haters and no-it-all-negative-minds here and play The game and be surprised by a Well composed and beautiful game.
1242) I think that people just hate on the game when it’s actually a very good game with an amazing playthrough and it has great gameplay I’d rate the game higher if I could
1243) Absolutely amazing, no words for this. Best experience ever. The story, the music, the characters, the dialogues, just simple perfect.
1244) Beautiful game, yes the story isn’t your normal hero’s journey, but it’s based in realism. Most People don’t die in cool heroic ways in real life. Death is **** But if you take away the one sad death you are left with a beautiful, immersive, gripping experience. This made me feel SOMETHING. And that is powerful enough In itself. Plus the combat, graphics, mechanics, and everything else are **** killer!
1245) One of the best games ever. Don’t listen to the haters. They probably didn’t play the game or just didn’t understand the story
1246) One of the best games of all time. Ignore the review bombers, this game is flawless.
1247) Video games are becoming mature. Naughty Dog you have outdone yourself, I don't see any game/studio (yourself included) doing one better than this for a long time. I tip my hat to the team. The story is thought provoking in a way that made me uncomfortable - it threw context at all that violence, made me witness the consequences of my actions, ushered in the feels like never before. It's pretty obvious why a lot of people are upset, they were expecting a video game and Naughty Dog gave them 40 hour lesson about growing up. This might seem a bit extreme to some but I liked Abby, she was a flawed, vulnerable, hard hitting (literally and figuratively), masterstroke of a character, just like Ellie - two sides of the same coin. I'd go as far as to say Abby seemed to be a better crafted character than Ellie. Enough of the character dissection - a video game has me thinking about characters and their personalities - Naughty Dog, you guys are awesome!,,To anyone reading this review - Support the developer, we need more games like this! The attention to detail, the soundtrack, the storytelling and the gameplay! oh my god we need more games like this! Buy this game and play the whole thing - you will not regret it. Even if you don't like the story go ahead and treat yourself to the gameplay, the graphics, and the soundtrack - its a thoroughly enjoyable experience. Game on my friends! Game on!,,Onto my rating -,Gameplay 10/10,Story 9/10,Narration/Writing 10/10,Soundtrack 11/10,Graphics 11/10,,Overall 10/10
1248) I'd been waiting to play it for years, the first episode was the reason I went from xbox360 to ps4 pro. I had a lot of expectations for the second episode of TLOU2 and I have to say I really liked it. It was exciting full of twists and turns and not at all boring, the direction spectacular as in all Noughtydogs games. Promoted and highly recommended.
1249) I great sequel to an amazing game, emotionally and character driven. A very unique experience, it is difficult to play if you are invested in the characters. Its teaches and tells an amazing story that I have not experienced in any other game. Master piece to the intelligent.
1250) One of the best game I've ever played.,Yes, the plot is complex, ambiguous and has tons of perspectives but, you know what, this is the benefit of this game, not the weakness.
1251) It's just a great game!,When you start it, you imidiatly feel how different it is, from what you used to see nowdays. TLOU2 threats you as adult, it assumes you are able to read between the lines. So it's no surprise this game has so low user score here at Metacritic, it's just not the game for those Fortnite/Ubisoft lovers. It's the game that makes you feel, makes you think and makes you react. So to play it you at list should be capable of doing so.,And o e word about gameplay, it's amazing)),If you like videogames, you should play it. It's unforgivable to pass it. It's not smart to rate it low just for prank.
1252) I love the different perspectives really makes you think about everything the combat and story is also better than Part 1
1253) Incredible immersive game. breaks gaming norms and makes space for innovation in the future.
1254) Nice game just don't trust this dumbs haters who just didn't buyed the game and talk without know anything. It's okay if u played the game at 100%, but if u didn't finished the game, and u talk, just close your mouth please. Thanks
1255) I love this game. These characters. These Graphics. These details! The best game.
1256) As incredible ad it may seem part II is even better than part 1. Dont listen to bigots, review bombers idiots. This is the most extraordinary fascinating game that was ever done... run buy it. It's worth every penny
1257) Completely perfect game with amazing story, characters and fascinating game play.,,If you're not consistently emotional, angry, invigorated and addicted with motivation and vengeance, then you're just an infected bloater spewing acid.  The conflict of interest was brilliant.  The story with two sides leaves you with impossible decisions to make.  The sadness and angst of it all rips through you. So very well written.,,Hands down the game of the decade with part 1 in second place.  I pray for a part 3.
1258) One of the best Games by far in Terms of graphics, Animations and Story.,The Story is complex and gives you much to think about. Although Most people complain about certain Things Like the Characters you Play i Had No issues whatsoever with that its Just such a Well written and deep Story that i Just have to Say thank you Naughty Dog for such an amazing Game!,I really Hope to See more from Abby and Lev in the Future.
1259) I absolutely loved it.  Beautiful graphics, animations, music and scenery.  They nailed every part of this game.  I enjoyed the story very much not knowing what to expect after the first game.  Very unique telling of a story that I'll be thinking about for years to come.
1260) What a ride. Finished the game over two weeks ago and still haven't walked it off.,It's different to what I expected, but even with that I was blown away. I made sure I avoided all leaks and hate or any other content before diving in.,,Easily the best graphics and animations today. Gameplay is fun, engaging and thrilling. The mechanics are very similar to the first game - quick menu, backpack inventory and crafting, upgrade benches, scavenging, but all is improved in a good way and is amazing to look at. Combat is challenging with extraordinary AI. Soundtrack and sound design are amazing. I feel the story overall is darker than the first one.,,There are some disappointments, I understand where the backlash comes from. I didn't like Abby all that much either and would welcome more space for Jesse and definitely Joel. I think Abby's part could have been made into a DLC and the main game could have been just Ellie.,But man, did I enjoy Ellie's journey. It`s been a long time since I've felt so attached to the main character. Smiling, crying, yelling in horror as I witnessed all she's gone through. Flashbacks to the past were sweet and heartbreaking.,,Ellie is now a changed person, the trauma changed her and we can see her falling into an abyss of self destruction. It's dark and depressing. Despite everything she did and went through, she has doubts and regrets and feels way more human than Abby. I understand Abby's position, but her coldness combined with flashbacks that try to show her more humane part felt disconnected. Abby's crew is fine, despite what everyone is saying, but not particularly interesting. Although I still think the mission with pregnant Mel was stupid.,,The game is trying to convey a message that is difficult to accept and get over. I personally think it could have been done differently, but that's an opinion and I understand what the developers wanted to accomplish and they did it masterfully. This game is not for everyone, it's dark and mentally challenging. I understand why the fans are disappointed. I'm a big fan of the first game and even though I could see Part II done differently I rate games based on how they make me feel and engaged. The emotions were there in full power and that's why I rate it this high. Few games can do that.
1261) What they wanted to do with the story is bold. There are no lazy writing or poor writing. Just  some people are heartbroken because they wanted the story go different. But if you accept everything as it is you will enjoy with this dramatic story. So many tiny details both in gameplay and story.  I will not even gonna talk about gameplay,graphic and phsyics they are exceptional.
1262) Perfect gameplay,perfect soundtrack,amazing atmosphere and masterpiece story.,This game is a perfect work.
1263) Don't let anyone tell you otherwise, this is a PERFECT game - the story is magnificent and challenges you and everything you think you know about what a story is meant to be.,Technically and visually, it's a masterpiece as well. Play it, and you won't regret it.
1264) If you enjoy games and the stories they can tell you'll enjoy this game. Simply said, the game play is good, the sounds and music are great, and the graphics are unbelievable. I thought the story was great. It's told in a way to make you feel certain things at certain times,like all stories do.
1265) One of the masterpieces of the game world that fascinates the audience with its excellent storytelling and gameplay
1266) Incredibly addicting game. Way underrated easily a 9 to 10 game. The rest of this is filler to meet the quota.
1267) After passing The Last Of Us 2, I was left with a feeling of emptiness, I could not perceive the story and did not understand what the game wanted to convey to me. By the way the final location in this game where Ellie arrives perfectly reflects the feelings that,I and many other players have experienced a lot of desolation, which is a very symbolic detail. But after a while, I fully comprehended the ending. After I realized what Drakman wanted to say at the end of the game I realized how brilliant the ending is. The essence of the plot of The Last Of Us 2 is that it shows us not how to take revenge, as many thought after passing. This game is entirely dedicated to the story of the cycle of violence it shows us how the path of revenge can be unnecessary and tragic and what irreversible and terrible consequences it can lead to this is the whole essence of the plot of the second part of TLOU. People who really thought that the plot is a banal story about revenge(which was strange to expect from Drakman), in the final saw not what they expected because of which there was a huge amount of controversy and negative reviews.
1268) The Game has excellent graphics and mechanics, and an engaging story that fits into the world of the last of us.
1269) A truly incredible game that is being destroyed by people who have a problem with a story that challenges its audience and characters who don't always act the way the audience wants them to.
1270) The game play and story set the bar high even for Naughty Dogs standards.  Everyone involved in making this game should be very proud. Congratulations! This game is a true masterpiece and is a perfect example of why gaming offers experience that can never be obtained in movies or books.
1271) This is a masterpiece. Now it’s #1 in my list of favorite games of all time. If you’ve played the first one - this is definitely a must play. Don’t listen to those who didn’t even played it.
1272) I love those drama story after all.,And killing joel was nessesary to make such incrrdible story
1273) Wow this might be The most intense game experience ive ever had. I feel sorry for all the haters. This is so well written and so masterly Created its scary. Even better than The first one in my opinion. Its so powerful in so many ways. I just want to see more from this world that naughty dog have created
1274) One of the best games I've ever played. Powerful, emotional, mature roller-coaster. Perfect gameplay, story, caracters and direction.
1275) Masterpiece!!!! The best storytelling I've ever seen!!! Brutal and dramatic.
1276) A masterpiece of charter development, storytelling and gaming experience. I am in awe of the bravery of the developers to produce something so confronting and different, I loved every second even when I felt frustrated and challenged. I've never had an experience where a game stuck it's emotional meat hooks in and waggled them around so unmercifully, what an extraordinary piece of art. I'll enjoy playing it over and over again
1277) Don't let the review bombs put you of this game, absolutely next level in every single way.
1278) Amazing game, it has a flawless gameplay, incredible graphics and a rich story, you should definitely play it all the way through.
1279) I do not understand how you can not like this game. I never felt empathetic during my time playing as abby, but i still thought the ending was phenomenal. If ellie were to kill abby she would have been no better than abby was. Lev would feel the same thing ellie did when joel died. Truly the best narrative ever in a game
1280) I am about 70% into the game and I absolutely love it. The story feels real and dark, in-line with post apocalyptic world. The story is the continuation of part 1. To be honest, I'm not sure which one I like better, they are maybe on a par for me. As far as graphics, gameplay,  mechanics - part 2 is awesome. Fantastic job Naughty Dog! We don't get to experience such games very often.,,Update: now that I finished this game, it's a solid 9/10 for me. Fantastic story, although it's sad, emotionally deep, and complex. I loved the gameplay and environment. Will replay it for sure.
1281) This is the best game I have ever played. It is a masterpiece. It is incredible in every possible way.,10/10 Graphics, 10/10 story, 10/10 performance, 10/10 gameplay and 10/10 soundtrack. I really don't understand how anyone can dislike this game after finishing it.,It is the perfect sequel and it gives a perfect closure to Joel and Ellie`s story.,********SPOILER ALERT********,if you didn`t finish the game don`t read the following,,I know that many people are not going to read this but for those who actually finished the game and did not understand the ending (or doesn`t know how to feel about it), I will leave you with an analysis that may be useful to some:,,Ellie's hatred for Abby is an external reflection of Ellie's self-hatred.,Joel deeply hurt Abby and Ellie in different ways and they both punished him for it. Ellie hates Abby for torturing Joel to death, especially since she didn't have a chance to restore her relationship with Joel. This is a parallel to her situation with Ellie because she also tortured Joel, she did it for years but in a different way, and I would say that in a more painful way for Joel, and that was to disconnect from him. Ellie hates herself for torturing him like this and for not restoring their relationship when there was still time. That is the real pain that she has been trying to avoid facing throughout this quest for revenge, she is like a "junkie" who uses revenge to avoid dealing with those painful feelings of regret. This is the vision she has while she is drowning Abby (when she has the flashback of the scene on the porch with Joel) and chooses not to kill her. She is not only forgiving Abby, but more importantly forgiving herself and finally coming to a resolution as to what happened between her and Joel, I think Ellie leaving her guitar leaning against the window and walking away symbolically represents that she has forgiven Joel, and she made peace with what happened between them and she's finally ready to move on and start a new life.,,When I finished The Last Of Us Part II for the first time, I felt empty and honestly, I didn't know what to feel, whether I liked it or not, but after much deliberation, I think it is truly a masterpiece.,,People who say the game is just about "revenge=bad" or that the ending "feels utterly, hopelessly pointless", I think they really didn't get it (or didn't play it). Because this game is about forgiveness.,,This game is not at all what the fans expected, but I think that's what makes it so great.
1282) This is one of the best game I've ever played.. Just WOW...,The two halves had something special.,As a result, I preferred more Abby than Elie..,I'm glad that Elie didn't kill her
1283) I was really afraid I wouldn't enjoy this game because I'd seen a lot of negative reviews, but I'm so glad I stayed with it anyway. I personally found the story as compelling and the graphics as beautiful as the first game, and the updated gameplay was great. I do understand why some people had a hard time with the game, but for me it exemplified what I find so great about Naughty Dog; they are committed to creating complex, multifaceted and interesting characters, and they don't shy away from letting those characters make tough decisions.
1284) This game is one of the best game i’ve ever played graphics are unbelievable and the gameplay is so alive
1285) A masterpiece. The boldness and unapologetic writing sets an example that all developers should follow.
1286) The greatest game for current console generation. Dear authors, don't listen for all haters - game is perfect!!
1287) Honestly, my review is probably closer to a 7 but I also think this user rating is absolute garbage by people who never played the game and whose main points of contention comes from "I dOnT lIkE aBbY" "ThEy KiLlEd JoEl So ThIs GaMe SuCkS",That all being said. The game has a handful of issues, much of which revolves around pacing amd timing. The gameplay itself is more of the same from the last of us. Their are new options and enemies but overall it is just as good if not even a little better than the first mechanically. Where the game loses its three points is the story. Don't get me wrong, the story it tells is actually a good story. There is a through line of the concepts of revenge, it's outcome and it's impacts. They specifically are crafted to show us that the only real difference between the enemy and the hero, is who we have more emotional investment with. They dropped the ball a couple of places to really make this message sink in. However, you aren't supposed to like Abby in this game. Just like in the end, you're not supposed to like Ellie. The main problem comes with pacing. They waited too long for us to take control of Abby. I think the game would have improved greatly if we started as Abby during the "tutorial" section to learn to play, then jump to Ellie for the start. Then we should have swapped day by day with the two characters to get more connection with Abby. They also could have held off on Joel's death until we have some connection to Abby. With those two changes I think this game could legit be an 8 or even 9 out of 10.,However, I do have to bring up the token trans character and their treatment of them. (I am NOT talking about Abby! Abby is never said be to be trans in game and is never talked about in that way so wether or not she is, is irrelevant. She is a woman in game. Period),The Non-binary child in the game is, in all honesty, nearly tortured emotionally more than any other character in this game. The game is not a happy one but when you are introducing character into your game who are not widely represented, it may be important not to have your character be tortured, forced to kill their own mother, and watch their sister get their arm cut off and then be shot... I'm not part of the NB community so that's just my take but I've heard a lot of people not happy about this portrayal.,So over all it is a generally more than good game with a couple of flaws that brings it down to the slightly above average zone. Any of the massive negative reviews are suspect (as I would also day is anyone who says this game is perfect!) If the scores wouldn't be bombed because of people being reactionary, this game should probably get a 6-8 score. So until it's in that area, I'm helping to bring it up!
1288) Amazing game. Game of the year & decade. I did not think that Naughty Dog could come back and do it again, but they did.
1289) Thr game is amazing. Graphics are terrific, best in the industry right now. I couldn't have asked for better. The gameplay is just as good as the first game, but even smoother. The animations in melee combat is amazing, and the dodge mechanic is a good add on from the first game. The story is also one of the best in the industry. I know some people won't agree with me, but I live the story. Do your self a favor and buy this game.
1290) This experience was outstanding. The Story is great and feels absolutely natural.
1291) Neil Druckmann is amazing director and writer.,Outstanding graphics, music, atmosphere.,12/10!
1292) Among the sea of bad reviews I hope that what I say will not offend anyone but instead shed some light on what seems to be a foreign POV. Yes, in the game our dream daddy of gaming was killed. Did we cry? I sure did, couldn't stop. I was fuelled by rage and anguish. I was Ellie. Through what was the first half of the game I felt everything she felt. And then Abby came into the equation. What leads up to the final battle is a step into Abby's shoes. At first, I was not on board, I want this **** to die, I wanted Ellie to beat her to a bloody pulp. That was until Abby's story started to pick up. As Abby I saved a young boy who defied his society. I conquered my fear of heights. I slayed the ugly **** that was the rat king. In what felt like minutes but really was hours, I was Ellie again. I was standing on a Misty beach staring at a starved Abby with my fists curled. What started as  burning hatred in hour 2 turned into me screaming 'stop' at my TV. I've been playing video games for a long time and not once have I not wanted to press square. I froze up twice during the final battle and this is something I've never experienced. The reason why I give this game a 10/10 is because Naughty Dog made me feel something I've never felt. To call this game a lazily written revenge plot that doesn't end with revenge is undercutting the game's accomplishments. Whether you liked the game Naughty Dog did what they set out to do.  We all felt lost, angry, and confused. In my mind this game is a masterpiece for that very reason. It provoked thought and it sparked conversation. I highly suggest the game. Form your own opinion and share it. But please, I ask that any hate towards the developers or critics comes to an end. Thank you for reading my really long review, enjoy your scrolling
1293) An amazing game made by an amazing group of people. Ashley Johnson was just perfect (they all were)!! Game of the year in my opinion.
1294) Just a amazing game and a cinemetographic story. Ellie 10/10. Abby 10/10. We're all humans, living like humans in the end of the world. Sad but true.
1295) Amazing and heartbreaking story. Really continues the story in an gut wrenching, emotional way. Wish I could forget both games and play them for the first time again. Naughty dog has done it again!
1296) One of the most ambitious and rich stories I have ever experienced in any medium. It is as challenging as it is rewarding. It is deserving of your time. I will remember my first time playing this forever. A masterpiece.
1297) What an amazing story! Beautiful, painful and human. Truly incredible way to close off the saga. It's a shame it has been review bombed as it really is a masterpiece.
1298) an incredible piece of art - i feel like the reoccurring theme of hopelessness and deep sadness was a very powerful driving force to experience Ellie's journey on an emotional level. i read reviews that complained about how all the senseless killing did not build to an epic apogee that would justify all the violence, making it seem unnecessary, but in my eyes that was the sad beauty of it. it was, in a way, meaningless, but at the same time any other ending with a clear sense of victory would not have carried this deep emotional impact that i have been left with. a beautifully tragic and incredibly engaging story.
1299) It challenges ur process/criteria of liking a game. Gets you very much invested emotionally to what happens, i absolutely loved it
1300) I absolutely loved the game yet completely understood people's anger and criticisms. The graphics, the animation, the combat and the themes along with the overall narrative were second-to-none. Naughty Dog did a phenomenal job with Abby by turning her from villain into someone who I thoroughly enjoyed playing as and sympathised with.
1301) Just love the story of this game! Waiting for the next one! P.s. love the Abby story arc!
1302) A masterpiece that can be uncomfortable, bleak and brutal, but is always enterntaining and worth playing. Best enjoyed in shorter periods at a time. Don't believe the **** trolls spamming with bad reviews.
1303) I give this game a perfect score.,I enjoyed my whole playthrough and I think the writers took real risks with the story, a choice they should be celebrated for.,Thoroughly enjoyed this game, I recommend it highly. Congrats to everybody who helped to make such a beautiful game.
1304) best game ive ever played!!!!! you will be at rollecoaster of emotions...you will love and hate all the characters and the game will play with your heart...enjoy
1305) This game is a masterpiece, and I don't have words to express my feelings about the entire experience I've during the story. Half of the community hated the game only because of Joel's death, forgetting about the cruel word they live and ANY character can possibly die from many ways. Besides that, the game itself is dark and I understand the feeling of "It should not be ended in this way", but there's no way to bring Joel back, making the decision of revenge a stupid action, since Abby is trying to redeem herself by saving Lev, being stopped by the tenacity of Ellie when she remember about Joel. Nobody is a "hero" in this world, you need to pay attention to all the details in this game to understand this. For example: All NPCs have names and their friends and allies have interaction with their deaths; You can see the peaceful vision that Abby have about this world, turning against the Wolves and saving two Scars from their death. She don't want to be part of a meaningless genocide of people that are trying to survive against the Infected. The conflict between Wolves and Scars only resulted in several deaths of innocents, like the chase of Ellie to kill Abby, killing a pregnant woman and his boyfriend. To understand the feeling of the game, you need to feel empathy for Abby, because her dad was killed by Joel, making him the villain of HER story. We interact with two stories at same time, and no one wins in the ending, making Ellie alone. The LGBT details in the map are kinda random, but it doesn't matter to the story after all, and the part o Lev being a trans man to avoid the situation of many womans in their tribe is very impactful, showing hope for kindness and love aside hate and death towards their people.
1306) First things first, for me this is a 9 for reasons I'll explain later, but given the score bombing I feel compelled to give it a 10. By the way, if my English is not perfect, I am sorry, but it is not my first language. Well, what do I begin with? Graphics are great and the gameplay is pretty much the same from the original The Last of Us, which means that it is good. In my own experience, regarding the gameplay, I missed some diversity, because at some point killing infecteds and humans in stealthy mode got repetitive, but I must say that I never got bored. Having said this, let's go to the core of this game, the story.,,Some spoilers are coming up, so please do not read any further if you want to stay "virgin". The plot of the game is not too complicated and nor was the plot of the previous game. Joel and Ellie live in Jackson, where we left them at the end of The Last of Us, when a bunch of guys coming from who knows where, show up and kill Joel, apparently for something he did in the past although we do not know exactly the actual reason. These guys spared Elllie's life, but she decides to seek vengeance and follows Joel's brother, Tommy, who has already departed tracking the trail of Joel's murderers to Seattle. In this journey, she is accompanied by her girlfriend, Dina and, some time later, by a friend from Jackson called Jessie. And this is pretty much the first half of the game, Ellie, killing anyone on her way to the final executioner of Joel, a girl called Abby. During this fragment of the game we experience how Ellie grows darker and darker consumed by revenge and guilt. She feels guilty because, as we know through some flashbacks, she had a difficult relationship with Joel once she learned that he rescued her from the fireflies at the expense of the cure and the never reconciled afterwards. And the storytelling of the game would be horrible if the story stopped there, but it didn't. Once we finally find Abby, the game goes back in time and now we control Abby. We learn that she had some reasonable motives to kill Joel, basically he spoiled the cure and killed her father, and we find out that besides killing our beloved hero from the first game she is a pretty fine person.  Actually, her quest is a story of redemption by saving the lives of two kids escaping from a dreary cult, the Seraphites, that is at war with Abby's group, WLF, and this will eventually make her fight against her own people.,,So by the end of the game we find Ellie and Abby wanting to kill each other while, we, as players, want exactly the opposite. We want Ellie to stop plunging into darkness and we want Abby to complete her quest of redemption by escorting the surviving Seraphite kid, Lev, to a safe place. And this is the magic of this game. In the first half they want us to seek for revenge and enjoy killing all of the people we find on our way. It is true that at some instances I did not want to be as cruel as the game wanted me to be, but I basically wanted to kill all of that people. But then, the game changes the perspective, now you play the role of your former victims and find that they are not the monsters you imagined, now you start to wonder whether what you have done is all right to the point that by the end of Abby's quest I just wanted to escape and avoid any killing if possible because I was fed up with so much violence. I no longer wanted to be part of it. And such feeling is only possible through videogames, a movie cannot make you feel the same since you are not playing the role of any character. This feeling, in my opinion, is the very core of the The Last of Us II experience and it was an experience that totally paid off.,,Regarding the polemic about gay characters.... Some people have a problem. I know that some recent movies and games are too focused on delivering a so called liberal message rather than telling a good story, but this is not the case. First, because, as I already explained, this is a good story and second because the sexual orientation of some characters is anecdotal and completely irrelevant for what the creators are trying to tell us. I mean, of course, you can create a great work focused on this topic, but this was not even the intention in this game. Ellie being gay is irrelevant for the story and if you have a problem with her being gay it is your problem not the game's.,,In conclusion, I do recommend this game, maybe it is not perfect and maybe its message will not reach every player with the same force it reached me, but if it does, you will really enjoy it.
1307) This game is completely fantastic at all levels. Making a sequel of a game considered as one o best games of the decade for sure is not easy, but honestly I was not expecting something like that.,Awesome script, incredible graphics and great way of presenting a brilliant story. A lot of blood but loved it.
1308) The game continues the story of the first one in a very organic way and true to the characters. It is a master piece, for sure. A amazingly crafted narrative, just perfect!
1309) perfect game beautiful story best character game of the year ..............
1310) Loved the original so much & honestly felt a sequel was unnecessary & likely spoil the perfectly ambiguous ending  of the 1st. Well after 2 play-thrus & time to reflect, I can say with total confidence that this is a masterpiece, just as good as the 1st & in some ways surpasses it. Story tackles complex & thought provoking issues, challenged my biases & perspective & made me feel a wide range of intense emotions. ND took a big narrative risk with their vision but managed to tell a story that was true to the characters & the world they inhabit. Gameplay is vastly improved & super fun. The more open world structure encourages exploration & allows each encounter to be approached using a variety of different strategies. This is a massive game, twice the length of the 1st with stunningly realistic & crazy detailed graphics, & that very natural character dialogue & mo-cap facial expressions which we come to expect from ND. My only criticism was that certain sections of the game felt a bit long & stretched out, leaving me exhausted & hoping for a bit of reprieve. Though it’s likely this was their intention. One of the best analogies I’ve heard comparing each game is that the 1st ends with hope on the surface but a sense of misery underneath whereas this ends with misery on the surface but a sense of hope underneath. Just as part 1 was to PS 3, this game is the very best of this gen of consoles, it has excellent replay value & will stay in your heart & mind long after you finish it.
1311) Naughty dog did the insane thing of making us almost puke in revulsion and horror at the loss of Joel. But every step of the way showed us how we can have two perspectives of the same story. I hated the way it ended. It left me sleepless and in agony about the choices we were forced to make. The game had interesting and updated battles and sections over last of us. But we weren't there for the gameplay even if it was good.. We were here for the difficult ride and I'm glad I did.
1312) This game has the most beautiful special effects,It is one of the most beautiful games of this generation,I really enjoyed this game,Amazing,Amazing,Amazing,Amazing,Amazing,Amazing
1313) Honestly, it’s a work of art. Not the best, but I appreciate it for what it is.
1314) It started slow and I was waiting to be disappointed by all the criticism out there. But it grew on me and grew on me and I finished the game a few hours ago and honestly think it’s a masterpiece. Not only that - My favorite game of all time. Here’s why: It makes you think about life more than anything in real life! Life, death, hate, betrayal, love, identity, division, unity, consequences... it’s a game about what makes us human. Seriously haven’t felt emotions this intense in years. Absolutely loved it.
1315) How this game parallels the first game in so many ways and how the two storylines parallel each other leads to this game being nothing short of a masterpiece.
1316) The Last of Us: Part II is a story that can only be described as a masterpiece. This game is truly an experience that will not escape the player's mind after completion. It truly breaks my heart that others can't appreciate its genius, especially when so many haven't even played the game (as demonstrated by the unfortunate User Score).
1317) The best game i ever played,Some can not stand the beautiful story of the last of us part ll and give it a poor score, but this game is a masterpiece of Druckmann art.
1318) I don't understand why people hate this game, but this is Best Game in Human History!
1319) I've been a gamer for the past 2 decades... I'm shocked at the hate this game has received despite the very obvious attention to detail and production quality. It was emotionally taxing but ... The experience (story, gameplay, stealth, AI ...) was something so special that really only happens very rarely in the gaming world (like once or twice in a generation)...  And that to me makes it a perfect 10.
1320) This is not an easy game. It's a deep journey in human psicology. Love, hate, revenge, regret.
1321) This game is truly a masterpiece and doesn't deserve all the hate. It is actually one of the best games I've ever played.
1322) Best game ever made. Absolute masterpiece. I'm a die-hard fan of part one; part two rises above it in every way I hoped it would. To everyone who is claiming it's trash: you completely missed the point and I pity you. To everyone who is yet to experience it for the first time: you're in for the ride of your life and I envy you.
1323) I loved it.,A video game where you forget who are the good and bad guys, it shows you how humanity is lost in a post pandemic world where criminals, toughs and vandals rule the world.,Long walkthrough, great gameplay, amazing graphics.,It is great how this video game is molded to your “style” from agresive to stealth, no matter the character you are playing with.,Must play!
1324) Really emotional story and really love Ellie's character development here. People should play it until the end and stop judging the game from like 2-3 hours of the game.
1325) Recommended for everyone u need to finish this game then rate this because its masterpiece
1326) The game of my life! Spectacular! Emotions, revenge, tears, love, diversity, respect.
1327) Absolutely new gaming experience. Very thoughtful plot with amazing detail-oriented visuals. Something that stays with you for a long time. Can’t wait for Part Three. Thank you Neil and entire ND team!
1328) Game of year
1329) Best game I have ever played till now graphics are amazing gameplay is awesome and the part where naughty dog always do their best is storytelling and this time also they did a mind-blowing job at storytelling and the amazing soundtrack by gustavo santaolalla gets you immersed in the game while playing you will be happy, sad and also very sad because the characters of the game seem like real and we feel like they are very close to us I have finished this game 2 weeks ago and I can't take this game
1330) Its the Last of is 2 its so Good when i say i Play on ps4 Than Last of us i Can Cry
1331) This is the best game I have ever played. I liked the original game but this one builds on it and made me care for a whole host of characters in ways I have never done with a game before. It has that ability to make you miss the characters when you aren't playing it and now that I have finished the game I feel sad and empty knowing I will never experience it fresh again.
1332) How you can’t get behind such a human story is beyond me. **** the haters, this game is a class act.
1333) The game requires you to have an open mind while playing, and if it you do, you'll end up with a beautifully constructed, entrancing world. Gameplay is smooth and epic, and the story is different in almost every way. The main reason people don't like this game is  because it isn't the same a part 1, and while it might not be, that doesn't make any less of a masterpiece.
1334) The game is not the game we wanted or even expected to have but it tried something bold and I think it worked. It had some pace issues as well as some of the subplot didn't make sense to me but other than that the game was a marvelous achievement in gaming it sacked you in and make you feel, only to deco-stuck those first feelings to show you that everyone sees their own perspective and seeking justice at any cost will leave you broken
1335) Unlike a lot of reviews posted here by users who didn't bother to play, let alone finish the game, my review is based on actual experience of playing and finishing the game. The game is masterpiece in all the departments, be it, story, gameplay, graphics, AI. There's no aspect of the game, that doesn't shine. It really shows how much of an effort Naughty Dog must have put in. Immediately after finishing the game, I started new game+, because I couldn't wait to go back and live through the experience again. 10/10 to actors, 10/10 to developers, 10/10 to Neil Druckmann's phenomenal direction.
1336) One of the best games i've ver play, this game is not only about revenge, is about revenge and consecuences
1337) the game is an outstanding piece of art. it is a dark story and sometimes too dark and hurtful as it was supposed to be in the first place. it's not at all a  fun game but you will enjoy he amazing game play , and it teaches a lesson. it is not just a simple GAME, it's definitely more. the last of us part 2 makes other games look bad and simple. remember : you better play it on survivor and survivor+. and yes some characters are lesbian and some muscular  ladies, so if you are simple minded don't play.,,p.s: Joel was not a HERO, he was a lovely bad man and he deserved it.
1338) Extremely good story, people are just mad because they can’t accept that the story went where it went. This games takes you through an extreme emotional journey, and teaches you great lessons on grief and revenge! Play it and accept the reality, just like with life. Then this will be something real special.
1339) Best Game of History,Best Storytelling of History,Graphic is so Amazing,Thanks Naughty Dog
1340) Improved on original in every way. Terrific combat, beautiful world to explore. Best story in video games.
1341) A damn masterpiece,Superb story,State of the art visuals,Best in industry motion capture and voice acing,Top notch gameplay,The list goes on !
1342) This game took me on a journey to beautiful, horrific and emotional places. I’m grateful I got to go on this ride. It doesn’t matter if I liked or didn’t like where the story went; I didn’t write it, so it wasn’t up to me to determine. The polish is near-perfect, the gameplay it tight and kept me taught. I felt like I only ever had just enough tools or ammo to get through enemy encounters. The back-and-forth changes in character perspective made me think of The Godfather Part II. I don’t care if there’s ever a Last of Us Part III; this game will be among my all-time videogame experiences for a long time.
1343) It’s a shocking game with a disturbing sequences of events. It’ll make you uncomfortable but in the end after the dust has settled, I think the beauty and grace of it will show it’s self. Some may not be able to look past the death of a flagship character but I don’t feel like it was in vain. It all felt real.
1344) Gritty, morally complex, dark, and backdropped in a brutal and violent post-apocalyptic world, this game is one of the best (if not the best game) released in a long time... and certainly the best game released this year.,,The game is a masterpiece of storytelling, and is MUCH deeper than Part I... foiling violent hatred against deep empathy with incredible effect through reciprocal gameplay elements. Ellie's emerging sexuality, and recurring strong female leads (both literally and figuratively), play center stage in this game, which is generally refreshing (and not licentiously overdone).,,The results are an absolutely magnificent work of storytelling and gameplay... equally thrilling and heartwrenching to play and watch.,,Unfortunately, this game has received an unfair and emotionally charged low score by many disheartened prior players (of TLOU Part I) who felt cheated by Naughty Dog's necessary maturation of the main character, (Ellie).  While the Ellie of TLOU Part I was a bright and brave young teenager, full of quips and quick comments, the Ellie of Part II is now a competent and dangerous adult, who has matured while enduring years of emotional damage in a savage world... each leaving her with its own unique scar (physical and/or mental).  Fans of LTOU Part I should be aware of the emotional change in the gameplay BEFORE going in. Your fond memories of the funny and snarky Ellie (and Joel) from Part I will forever be changed, often for a much darker, albeit morally rich and complex, main character.,,With that caveat, this game is WELL worth the money... don't be fooled by the haters.
1345) People tend to forget they’re playing a game called “The Last of Us”. Instead, they think they’re playing “Joel and Ellie: The game”
1346) Best game this generation with rdr2 , the graphics are already next gen unlike halo infinite wich launch on next gen
1347) This game is absolutely AMAZING! The game-play is great, the visuals/graphics are stunning and life like and the story, although it has a few flaws, is emotional, challenging but still very enjoyable.,It's up there as one of the best games of all time in my opinion
1348) Look after playing the game at first i didn't like it so much because it killed Joel BUT after understanding the meaning of the game which is to learn to leave your past behind and its also about forgiveness and its shows that the girl who killed Joel didn't find her inner peace after killing him she found it when she saved the life of the two kids and Ellie found it when she finally let Joel rest and moved on by letting Abby go. Abby lost a lot and so did Ellie, Abby lost her father and Ellie Joel Abby lost all her friends and Ellie lost most of her friends her relationship and two of her fingers only because it took her more time to learn to forgive it is not a perfect game but it is still a masterpiece and a game that has a lot of messages coming through it
1349) People hate beacuse of joel’s death. I think this game is one of the best right now
1350) One of the best ps4 games. a wonderful continuation of history. I look forward to the third part.
1351) Complex game with a good lesson and solid theme. Amazing gameplay and great, dynamic characters.
1352) One of the best games I’ve ever played.,The game is very addictive. Story is very interesting.
1353) One of the best games ever made — Joel deserved to die. Best storytelling in any video game hands down.
1354) Thar Be Spoilers...,,What this game (and its predecessor} have achieved is phenomenal. It's greatest strength is undoubtedly its character work - the voice-acting, the stunning graphics and the dialogue draws you in seamlessly, until you are so utterly invested in the characters that when one is killed the shock reverberates. It not only informs the plot, but also your own visceral reaction (just take a look at all the knee-jerk venom from other reviewers here and you'll see what I mean).,,It feels much too contrived to call The Last of Us Part 2 a revenge story. It's too multi-faceted for that. There are threads of grief, redemption, failure, insecurity, guilt...it's all woven into the same tapestry.,,The game mechanics are almost flawless - I played on a PS4 Pro on a 4k screen and could find very little to nitpick. Visually - astounding. I don't have the best sound system in the world so sadly I can't comment on that as much as I would like to.,,Don't be swayed by reviews - keep an open-mind and delve in. I genuinely can't understand how anyone could fail to be impressed by this masterpiece of a game,
1355) This is the weirdest game I ever played. Technically, it is flawless. It is just the best you can possibly get in the industry right now.,Narratively it is somwhat confusing.,But my god, this plot. It made me feel emotions I never felt after playing a video game.,The fact that a game can trigger such a deep sense of anger, relief, hatred, despair, happiness, and hopelessness all at the same time, to me is nothing but a miracle.,I can talk for hours about why this game is so good, but it all comes down to one simple thing. The Last Of Us Part 2 grants the strongest emotional attachment to every single thing that happens on screen and the in game consequences hit you right in the heart. It is nothing like the first game and I see at as its most beneficial trait.,TLOU2 is complex, dramatic, very violent, overwhelmingly grim, and  dark gaming experience. You will not feel good after completing this thing but there will be some twisted sense of catharsis that will knock you of the rails and turn this 40+ hours game into something else than just an entertainment.
1356) why are homphobic people like this?? Please, just go away... "Stupid story" "Bad graphics" omg, get a life then.
1357) One of the best games and stories I have experienced. It seems the negative hate comes from individuals that didn’t fully understand the direction naughty dog was going. That is their option and they are entitled to it. From the graphics to the game play this is a perfect ten out of ten.
1358) Amazing game, I loved every second, I did not wanted to end. Naughty Dog makes excellent games!,Thanks for another beautifull adventure.
1359) Indeed the game has a story the all fans didn’t expected. But, that does not make it a bad game. The experience of understanding the two sides of the story was amazing. This game couldn’t be ANY BETTER! If somehow the lord gave me a second chance of playing this masterpiece.... I WOULD PLAY IT ALL OVER AGAIN!
1360) Before this one,TLOU was my favourite game,however TLOU2 took over and became my Nr 1.,It is bigger,braver,darker,more emotional,more mature,more devastating than I expected.With the storytelling style never experienced in the videogame before.This game is like a great movie but so much more...This is form of art,this is experience which plays with your emotions,makes you angry ,makes you cry,makes you feel emotionally attached to the story and characters.,Some people will obviously moan about this game because it pushes too many limits and most players are not ready for stylish storytelling with different time frames and some shocking moments.This game is not for immature audience who expected some standard story with everyone living happy lives.This is perfect continuation of the story set in TLOU.,So,ignore all negativity from little fans or very basic players and experience TLOU2 with all your heart and soul.,I am hoping that in few years Naughty Dog will give us another beautiful and devastating journey in TLOU3.
1361) This game Is a masterpiece, it’s the best game ever created. I do not understand why people put such a low rating. I get it,  I am also mad about What happens  to Joel, but still all this stuff add on  feeling experience into the game. Play the game with a feeling of vengeance, but later on seeing the other side of the coin and again the whole concept changes. Abby has been exactly through the same **** as Ellie . If I’m the previous part we played as Abby we would hate Ellie in this one. Which  other game affect your feelings so much? The graphics are stunning, story is crazy and sad with emotions, good aiming controls and exceptional . it has everything a game needs, Thank you naughtydog and Neil Duckman. I really hope there will be a third part although by then I’ll be already over  My 30”s. I’ll still play the game
1362) This really is a game like no other. While the gameplay was great, I play games like this for the story, and this is where TLOU2 shines brightest. The complexity, nuance, and sheer ambition of the narrative is something I genuinely have never seen in a video game before, and the characters are among the most believably human in the entire medium. The creators could have made a straightforward follow-up to the first game with great success, but instead they chose to be bold, and to tell a surprising, unexpected story that needed to be told. This game is harrowing, emotionally draining, and has been circling my mind for weeks since I completed it. It's disappointing to see so many people take nothing from the narrative except "violence bad," because there's so much more depth and profundity to it. It's about love, hate, justice, obsession, and so much more. If you like games which strive to push video games forward as a legitimate artistic medium, The Last of Us Part II is a must play.
1363) The best game ever created by any team ever,It's an absolute masterpiece,I don't understand the people **** over it
1364) The Last of Us Part II is a excellent and gripping action/thriller game with captivating twists and turns that stills keeps me haunted a month from release. Naughty dog takes a big risk in the storyline which understandably causes fan chaos, unbeknownst too that, the structure of the plot is something you rarely cross in media and entertainment in general, it beautifully balances thought-provoking and tedious decisions that really tests the players morals with exciting ruthless action.,The Last of Us Part II is one of the best graphically-looking game to come out of a PlayStation 4 and console gaming as a whole with very few in contention. 10/10
1365) excellent game. really enjoy it. Great history, makes you think about the reasons behind revenge and make yourself above that.
1366) Later edit: is the game with the most reviews in the world :) , to see how much drama is in here.,If you like the drama is beautiful game easy to play.  And keeping you playing to get to the end of the story, as the story become more important then the game play.
1367) This is my new favorite game of all time. Never before have I been so moved by a story.,I hope this game sets a new standard for story driven games, far from the clichés we are used to.
1368) An amazing meditation on the cost of blood feuds and the peace in ending it. As with the first game, this one is in a league all it's own and i cherish experiencing the journey ND clearly put so much time, talent and love into making.
1369) It good and it make stupid people butthurt,Imagine creating multiple accounts to **** on luxury entertainment
1370) Beat game I played ..................................................................
1371) I can't wait to read the 0/10,reviews from the kids who didn't actually play it!
1372) The way they killed joel off was **** and didnt like it. But doesnt mean it makes it a bad game. I had true hatred for abby after killing joel but after playing her story for 10 hours I grew to like her a little. She had a motive to kill joel because he killed abby's father which was the surgeon  who was supposed to cut the cure out of ellie's head. I hate that joel is dead, he is my favorite from the first game. But hell the improved gameplay was great imo and for me the story was just fine besides killing off everyone's favorite character.
1373) Well it’s finally done. I finished TLOU2, probably the last person on earth to do so. I strung out my play as long as humanly possible, finally finishing today at 42 hours. I wanted it to last a long time so I could truly digest the story and enjoy the game completely. I truly just didn’t want it to end.,,It was just as good as the first, certainly not an easy story to deal with, but just so incredibly well done. While I will certainly miss the character who was brutally killed, I think this one really sets up a powerful future game that will end this story as a trilogy.,,They said part 1 was about love and this one was about hate, but I think the real feeling in the end is that it is a study of empathy and forgiveness in a sort of backwards way.,,I have a feeling part 3 is going to focus on sacrifice.,,Anyway congratulations ￼ to #naughtydog you made another masterpiece. The Last of Us 1 & 2 not only lived up to the hype for me but are definitely some of the best games I have ever played. I think their only real rival being the early Mass Effect games.
1374) definitely a 10/10. i dont see what the fuss about joel death to others, but the this story demands it. loved both abby and elle story. stories like this only naughty dog can make. i hope i see last of us part 3.
1375) Macterpiece. Game of the year 2020. I passed this game and was satisfied. Neil Drackman outdone himself and the whole Naughty Dog team.
1376) Best story...,Best gameplay...,The Best game in my life...,Thank you naughty dog...
1377) I remember, when the main gameplay bits first started to leak; the kind which didn’t need any context to matter, yet it was the kind to infuriate most of the gaming community. With extreme dexterity, I kept myself away from the spoilers as I had already ordered the game and was eagerly awaiting the release date. And, as the release date approached, I prayed that my money and my long wait would not go wasted. The recommended videos on my youtube home page didn’t help however, as many videos started to be titled as “The Story of an Angry Lesbian” and “How to Not Make A Sequel”. The video titles were not wrong; well atleast the first half of them. You see, The Last of Us Part II IS actually the story of an extremely angry lesbian - but how one’s sexuality can affect the game’s outcome is beneath me. The other half of the youtube video titles however, soon turned out to prove themselves to be wrong, as this proved to be (atleast, for me) the greatest sequel to any game ever.,> Story (without spoiling it):,The Last of Us Part II is a story of vengeance. In fact, I think it is the greatest story of vengeance ever crafted. It’s the story of Ellie and her hunt for blood following the events of the first game.,The game takes off at around a couple of years later from the incident with the Fireflies. The game constantly pans out and off from the current time period, showing different scenarios of the past with the aid of time stamps. TLOU2 shows us a blood thirsty Ellie in an ageing world. For events that stirs up at the beginning of the story, Ellie goes on a hunt for revenge and takes down everyone who seemed to be a barricade. >Detailing:,You cannot ever depend on firearms and only truly learn to depend on the usability of your trusty switchblade and stealth. Drops of ammo and supplies becomes rarer with the rising difficulty and the experience that much harder. There are workbenches to upgrade your weapon and safes to ravage from. Whenever you want to craft something or apply a medkit, you need to do so manually, which teaches you to utilise every fleeting moment in an encounter or a battle. In these tiny, yet evolving manners, The Last of Us Part II always holds the attention of the player. It’s almost unfulfilling ending reminds me of my favourite tv series’ and once again sets the bar for “cinematic experiences” in games to a whole another level. This is not the sequel we asked for, but the sequel we needed. >My History With The Franchise:,I first played The Last of Us back in 2014, in my PS3. A year later, I bought the remastered edition on my PS4, to try out the DLC. It was amazing; it had the most consistent character development, borderline thrilling storyline, an unique gameplay and just the overall aesthetic of the game was appealing. The Last of Us had one of the most fulfilling endings in any game I played, yet from the moment I finished the game, I was eagerly waiting for a sequel. The next year, we were blessed with a reveal trailer, and the waiting got more and more hard to deal with. Before the date of release, I feared the game would be terrible. I was sad, as I already had ordered the game and was badly waiting for the release date. It was a delight to see my fear being proven >Why I Love The Game:,The Last of Us Part II loves testing the players by putting them in tough situations. I often found myself staring up above to the sky, looking for a high building or navigating for the sunset or spotting the ferris wheel. I only did those, to get around. There is no HUD map, and that’s how it should be. TLOU2 likes to show dominance as a survival post-apocalyptic game, and it does in every chance possible.,Combat is absolutely terrifying. You can light up entire hordes with dynamite pointed arrows, explode blood hounds on your trial with land mines, take hostages as their friends cry for their life - kill their friend first and slowly kill your hostage as he/she begs for their fleeting life. Instead of watching the same animation for stealth killing someone, you’re blessed with gruesome scenes of Ellie puncturing her enemies’ throats as their blood soaks her clothes. Instead of fighting every infected in the area, you can stun them sharply and run for your life. Instead of going in with blazing guns; you can take up stealth and execute it a score of different ways all while your comrade follows your lead. These are all new to the series, as in the previous entry all we got was sadly monotonous gameplay compared to its sequel. The point is, the best looking game on the PS4, also is a ton of fun regardless the blood ridden storyline.,> Final Thoughts With everything the game has to offer along with the best ending I’ve witnessed; I am utterly in love with the whole experience. If my words are worth anything (which is rare to be so), I’d rate this masterwork; quite easily and deservingly 10/10.
1378) My new favorite game. Played through twice already and love everything about it INCLUDING the story, which is fast paced, thoughtful. Almost all the characters are compelling. I, unlike some, thought Abby was a unique and thoroughly interesting character, and hope to learn more about the rest of her story
1379) It’s impossible to say that game is not a 10/10. People are just sad because they are not good enough to beat this game.
1380) This game is actually really good! I get that SOME people might not like it, but the majority of bad reviews are from salty babies. Most of whom probably haven’t even played the game. It is extremely fun, and yeah it is made me feel all different emotions. The game though is great, and you should definitely play it for yourself!
1381) Excelent gameplay! A clear improvement of 1st game.,Marvelous narrative rarely seen in any media, characters are presented in a more human and realistic fashion than the great majority of games, movies and TV series.,One of the best games of all time! A must play for anyone who’s not a limited gamer (the one that plays only sports, multiplayer and any other type of brainless games)!
1382) Masterpiece, naughty dog creates, again of course a game with a fantastic story, a great building of characters, plot twist which will blow your mind, it’s great to play the second part, it took me 24 hours and I wasn’t bored for a second, the safes are a great way to discover eras, it gives you motivation and also lots of ammo and crafting stuff, I mean, the gameplay isn’t much of a difference from the first one but it’s smooth and the graphics are fab Seriously.,I think most of u guys hates strong female character so that’s a reason for you to hate the game,,And bout the ending It makes a lot of sense,Just try to actually think.,Waiting for the third game
1383) fantastic game, well done Naughty Dog. You guys come through at all times since the Uncharted series. Loved how you shook it up for a truely desirable story that does not follow traditional story telling for the weak minded people out there who bashed this game. Way to leave it open for a possible trilogy.
1384) The gameplay, graphic, and story are very exciting, i like every small detail they put on the game. Thankyou so much naughty dogs for making the sequel of tlou.,Worth the wait!
1385) This game is incredible. Yes there are some things that I don’t like but honestly who cares. 100/10 loved it.
1386) The Last of Us 2 is one of, if not the best gaming experience I have ever had (sounds like an exaggeration but I really mean it). This game shook me to the core and left me emotionally wrecked by the time I completed the story; Naughty Dog has done a great job of getting the player invested in the game and its characters and has made a valiant effort in exploring parallel narratives that force you to empathise with both perspectives of the story so far. The gameplay, albeit very similar to the original game, has vastly improved in fluidity, animations, and does a great job of providing the player options to explore, take multiple routes, and discover the world around them in a much more natural manner (compared to the prequel). The combat is also an impressive step up from the first game; each encounter flawlessly creates an atmosphere of tension and fear that I haven't felt to such a degree in games I've played before. The stealth system has improved, the player has more freedom of movement, and weapon customizations and character upgrades allow you to choose which playstyle suits you best. Oh, and need I mention the graphics?,,But more about the story - as aforementioned I thoroughly enjoyed it, it does a great job at forcing the player to reflect on their decisions and look at the conflict from various perspectives. Without spoiling too much: halfway through the game, there is a somewhat sudden shift to a parallel narrative that was taking place throughout your playthrough up till that point. This part of the game is what is a turn off for many players, as they find the jump too jarring and out of place. Although I disagree, I do see where they're coming from and do acknowledge the slight pacing issues that are a consequence of this twist. There is also a certain fight sequence right before the epilogue of the game which didn't quite sit right with me, but I can't say much without spoiling the story.,,Overall, I think this game is nothing short of a masterpiece, and much like the prequel is a giant leap forward for storytelling in video games. The best advice I can give you is to go in with an open mind, and you'll certainly love it.
1387) Best gameplay. Interesting story and characters. I would like the third part. I hope Eli will find a new point for her life
1388) As a game, it is 10/10. You will enjoy the gameplay, graphics, combat, and environment as well as pretty much everything else. However it does not have the story I was hoping for
1389) One day, I'm going to write a longer, more detailed review. For now, all I want to say is this: I'm giving this game a 10 not to combat the review bombing but because this game genuinely deserves it. Naughty Dog didn't suddenly go braindead and forget who their characters were, and the charge that this is lazily written is laughable (at best). This game is a layered, complex work of art that perfectly complements the first game. Though I struggled with the decisions Naughty Dog made, as EVERYONE who plays this game has (thus the review bombing), after playing through the game a second time and reflecting on it more, I honestly can say this is the most powerful gaming experience out there. I hope Naughty Dog keeps pushing the envelope like this. They are true artists. And please, buy the game at full price; the artists deserve to be paid for their bold work.
1390) I’m stunned, this game was extraordinary. I have the same feeling of emptiness like after finishing some great book or tv-series. I think I wont play it again, it was too much for me
1391) A game of change from the first alarm. Some people say change for the better, while others say change for the worse. A modern face. Change for the better. The game is strong from an inventory of graphics, method of playing, strong story and strong events.
1392) I might not agree with some parts of the storyline but the game is a gem. It was beautifully done, they took their time working on it and it shows.
1393) Not really into scary, dark and depressing games, but my Creative Writing professor at university used the story of this game to explain dichotomy and parallels. I played it to ace a class, and ended up loving it! It’s too good! Never have I seen a game look this good and play so smooth! It looks and feels so real! The story had me crying a lot and feeling emotionally exhausted bu the end. It also left me questioning my morals. Takes “walk a mile in your enemy’s shoes” to a whole new level, it’s crazy! More games should take more risks and tell more interesting stories such as this! I was completely immersed in the 25+ hours I was playing it! The first game felt like a great show/movie, this one felt like a mix of that and reading a great book. I’d recommend it to everyone, if your heart can handle it!
1394) This game is a masterpiece and a great finale to the saga. Strongly recommended.
1395) Great game graphics. I understand the grips with the story an how Joel died at the 2hr mark. I love Ellie storyline an how she developeds thru the game she has a amazing ark for her side of the storu. I also like Abby an how she plays her story an u think it was smart how naughty dog ride her story to the o first game an let her dad was the one who got killed
1396) Incredible game. The depth of the characters, environments and overall story is unlike any game that I’ve experienced. Truly a fantastic follow up to the first game.
1397) I would like to divide this review into a few categories to the reviewing is easier.,First of graphics and technical problems. I cannot say anything against graphics. Everything looks realistic, the world is full of details that will captivate you and you will feel like you are part of it.,Secondly, the gameplay is also fun. You can sneak around if you want and kill everyone like an assassin or rush in and blast your way through but be careful... you do not have much ammo so look around all the time.,And lastly the story... As we all know there is some big controversy around it. I really enjoyed the story. Of course, there are a few things I would change. For example, it should be more chronological so that you play with both characters on the same day. But regardless of this story is really cool and surprise you every time. I think that everything that characters did is realistic and true to their characters. 2 hours from the end I was already thinking that it is over but then another part of the story kicked in and I was happily surprised.,Overall I can only recommend this game. It was a blast playing it and I think it changed my mindset how I am looking at the world. Thanks, Naughty Dogs.
1398) This game is an absolute masterpiece.  Even better than the first.  Naughty Dog's craftsmanship is only rivaled by Rockstar, and this is their best game yet.  So obvious from their reviews that most people who "hate" this game didn't even play it.  If you don't like what happens in the story, fine, but the story is very well written and acted.  The world immersion is unbelievable.  Everything in this game was done with master-level skill and execution.
1399) The history is 7/10 but this does not mean that the game is beastly in other aspects.
1400) One of the best games Ive played. Great story which is so much more then Joel and Ellie. Very emotional game.  Dont understand the negativity, but to each their own.
1401) Masterpiece, it changed my way to think, my personality and the way I see the world.
1402) A timeless work of art. Immortal. The most exciting gaming experience of my life. A swing of emotions. An invented narrative, which transposes reality into a surreal world. What is right and what is wrong? When does humanity begin and when does it end? Are we the good guys and the other the bad guys, or are the prospects alone telling us? Is it all a lie what we believe in ?! The values ​​we attribute to things, people, knowledge? Is our point of view always right? A story that plays with emotions. It gives him no respite.  Never. He enjoys breaking and reassembling them as if they were simple boxes of a complex puzzle, an analogy of life. A story of: Racism Homophobia love Anger Vengeance disparities Inequality Remorse inhumanity Where the strongest survives ... but who is really the strongest? Is he the one who dominates or the one who succumbs? From fear comes true strength. She who amplifies every human sensor and elevates it to the cube. Is true strength really what we believe or exactly the opposite ?! Fear is what makes us alive. Our body prepares to face danger. Every emotion we feel makes us stronger. Run faster.  Feel less pain. Only when we are weak do we find our true strength. Abandon the past, regrets, to find one's humanity and finally be free. Revenge is always exhausting. Its consequences are bleak. It is better to focus on future hope rather than past pain.
1403) Before you scold the author, think about the plot. Agree with Druckmann, I love this game
1404) After playing this game, I enjoyed every single part of it along with it's story being told. I highly recommend this to everyone. The gameplay is phenomenal, the story is impacting, and overall another masterpiece in I really felt was coming. This game taught me something people should've paid closer attention to. The perspective of two characters and their times of pain, trauma, loss, love, hate, anger, vengeance, and everything else within is came with lesson learned. Vengeance brings no one and nothing back, because it would only bring suffering in the end. I am glad I have experienced this game. The beginning and the end of thid game's dark and gritty sotry made perfect sense. I applaud the developers for their hard work on everything. I applaud the actors for their performances. I applaud this franchise. And I applaud this year for bringing me The Last Of Us Part II.,,Whoever down votes this game out of hatred needs to educate themselves more, and needs professional help. If you can't handle how a story of two characters is told, then you shouldn't enjoy anything.
1405) One of the best games i ever played. The graphics, great gameplay and a deep risky story. i recommend this game, but careful, it is not for everyone. You must to be open mind and neutral with the story, This game offers a lot to this generation, and the game has more successes than mistakes, for sure.,,Naughty Dog never disappionts,
1406) Just finished it. It surpassed the first. It is a masterpiece. Level design is often akin to the genius of Mario, game mechanics are fun and well crafted, characters and story are a-plus, graphics, like the first installation, are simply gorgeous. Loved to see different cities in that universe. It’s the whole package.
1407) Truly amazing and engrossing story. This world has consequences for the characters actions. Well written, interesting characters, who are the hero of their own stories, who may live long enough to see themselves become the villain. Must play, don't judge this game by what you may read. The script isn't everything, the performances add so much to this experience. Give it a go. You won't regret it.
1408) I really enjoyed the game. The story, the game mechanics. The best third person shooter and stealth t in the industry to date. Great graphics and animations. Never a game gave such a roller coaster of emotions. AI is great if you play on survivor + difficulty. Game is good for those with strong empathy, ability to reflect. It challenges people to personal growth. Wow. Please, go for TLOU 3.
1409) the best of narrative, amazing game, make me cry a lot, only lose to zelda breath of the wild in this generation of consoles
1410) Other games cannot give you more dramatic experience than 'The Last Of Us Part II'. This is most amazing progress in game history. Thank you to Naughty Dog for making epoch-making game.
1411) Absolutely fantastic game!,Visually stunning, awesome gameplay and a great story! Don't listen to the haters, they are just clouded in their judgment (just like the protagonist in this game).
1412) The game story was really good but my only problem is that when I was playing as Ellie straight after Abby it kinda felt like playing part 3 and part 2 at the same time. but the gameplay was super.  love this game 300000. and I think it's better than the first game.
1413) People didn’t play this game and rate 0/10.This game is must-played.I love this game
1414) A masterpiece experience. A must play for any with the minimum interest in storytelling. I wish I could forget it all so I could play it all over again.
1415) Unbelievable Game!! Masterpiece!!!,Thank you Naughty Dog for this Journey!!!
1416) Good game. Had a good time with it. Really dumb how you all just gave it a 3 out of 10 at first.
1417) Loved every twist and turn in the plot, Abby is also a great character I want to know more about. The AI of enemies and the graphics shine in the gameplay department
1418) By far one of the most emotionally draining and amazing experiences I've ever had during my time playing video games. Is the plot controversial? Yes. That however doesn't take away from the great writing, graphics, and gameplay. I constantly found myself in awe of how immersive this was. The emotional connection you feel with the characters is a testament to how well Naughty Dog spends crafting their games. It will be a while before i pick this up again, but I encourage everyone to experience this game at least once, however highly recommend playing the first prior to this to get the full emotional gut punch.
1419) This is easily the best game I've played this generation with Nier Automata. I loved everything, ND did an astonishing work. Masterpiece.
1420) This game is THE game. Was I mad when Joel died? Oh yes. Was I mad about playing with Abby? Oh yes. Was I open-minded enough to see where the story goes before leaving bad critics for the best game ever? Oh yes.,I loved Joel, of course I did. But Abby was not evil, she had a very good reason to kill Joel. She was no worse than Ellie, I'm sorry people have problems accepting this. I'm sorry you don't understand the message of this game and the reason Ellie didn't kill Abby. All of it was in the game and maybe y'all should have paid attention. Thanks for the experience Naughty Dog. Wasn't what I expected, it was better than it. Can't wait for a 3rd part.
1421) I just finished this game yesterday, and I felt compelled to write my first review here. Why? Because, like many, I noticed the overwhelming negative attitude and backlash this game received instantly upon arrival.,When I first got this game, I didn't immediately start playing it. I felt like if there was such a generalized dislike for the game, it was probably warranted, and that potential for disappointment dampened my excitement. Sequels rarely live up to expectations after all. I knew there was a lesbian romance from the trailer and the first game's dlc, so while I figured that it would play a role in the negative responses it'd get from hateful reactionaries, I still assumed the overall dislike for the game would be grounded in legitimate concerns.,And after having finished the game, I feel awful that I ever lent any credence to the hate mob. The game is absolutely fantastic in practically every way. And it is a sad realization that, having found no real reason for the overwhelming hate campaign the game got, I am left to conclude that the discriminatory sentiment against LGBTQ representation is its core motivation. As a gay man, I am disappointed in myself for having been naive in this respect. And I am deeply appreciative of Naughty Dog for having pushed forward with these LGBTQ stories despite the predictable reactionary backlash.,,So, regarding the different aspects of the game:,,- Gameplay wise, it builds on the foundation of the first game. The first game, in my opinion, had already strong, simple, effective gameplay mechanics, and this game just develops them a bit further. I am glad it is the case. Everything is responsive and feels more cinematic than in the first game.,,- Art wise, it is one of the best looking games to have ever been created, if not the best. It is undeniable how incredible this game looks. Not only from a technical perspective, in how it pushes fidelity to the highest possible degree graphics wise, but also in terms of art direction, set design, atmosphere, mood, visual storytelling. Everything feels like it has been meticulously crafted and put together to form the most seamless, intuitive and natural narrative experience. There's not a moment where the game does not reward you with incredibly designed cinematic shots, which cleverly play into various roles, both practical and story driven.,This newly achieved level of fidelity empowers the game's characters as well. The nuance of every micro expression is clearly perceived, and elevates the character development, the conflicts and inner turmoil of each character, which is especially important in this game, for reason I will be going into in the next topic.,,- Story. I cannot emphasize this enough: The story/narrative of this game is one of the most exquisite experiences I've ever had the pleasure to play. I am still devastated and thinking about this game's story. It is a bleak commentary on a vicious cycle of hatred and vengeance. A difficult look at the moral conflicts and failings in all of us. There were moments where it was hard not to look away. Where I wanted to intervene and stop the characters from acting in the way the game was asking me to act through them. It is full of despair, kindness and violence intertwined in such a difficult, grey, human manner that harshly rises above our infantile fantasies of heroes, villains and justice.,The story was, for me, its standout feature. Which makes sense, considering it was also the case for the first game.,,LGBTQ representation -  I am only including this category to express my deep gratitude to Naughty Dog for having the courage to write LGBTQ characters in such a big, important way. As a gay man, I am not ignorant to the constant struggle, decades upon decades, of representing any type of LGBTQ person or story in any media, let alone big AAA videogames. The culture war homophobic fanatics may try to convince you that there's an overabundance of queer representation, that there's a harmful agenda, that it's ruining videogames and other media. It's the farthest thing from the truth. These are mere battlegrounds for their culture wars, concern trolling for the sake of denigrating these types of media. Unfortunately, there's still massive resistance to the highlight of queer stories, and it often manifests in hate campaigns that mask themselves under other pretexts. Which is one of the reasons I so admire Naughty Dog's boldness in pursuing these stories, despite years and years of concentrated efforts to the contrary by those who would see us pushed to the margin, ignored and made to feel excluded from mainstream society.,,All in all, this game has been one of the best gaming experiences of my life. And if, like me, you were reluctant to play it because of the negative community perception, my only advice is try it for yourself. Because you may be rejecting a spectacular game for reasons that are beyond the game itself.
1422) Had to create an account just to do my part to fight against the review bombing for this game. The Last of Us Part 2 is a masterpiece. Yes there are a few woke elements in the game but it doesn't take away from the excellent story that makes you question right and wrong, good and bad, hero or villain. Every Playstation gamer owes it to themselves to pick this game up. Never have I played a game that makes me think like this one does. 10 out of 10, absolute masterpiece.
1423) A true master class of media. If you're expecting predictable Hollywood fare of simplistic heroic characters and spoon-fed themes, look elsewhere.,,It's becoming increasingly apparent from the hate-filled review bombings that the M rating should also have a descriptor for emotional maturity, because clearly a lot of people can't handle even remotely challenging feelings.,,It's also worth pointing out that all the negativity and bigotry can appear loud and overwhelming, but they're a minority (the type of people they hate!) compared to the majority of people who actually played the first game and understood its themes and characters.
1424) If you're homophobic and sexist and refuse to play a game where the main character isn't a male and where most of the sex is non-heteronormative, you'll be unable to understand the plot of this game. If you are literally anyone else who actually paid attention to the story in part 1 and understand that Joel's actions were bound to have consequences and that Joel was a flawed human being, you'll be very interested in this game's storyline. The story is very innovative for this medium in that it makes the player think carefully about their character's actions and has you play as the villain almost as much as it has you play as the protagonist. At one point you play as the villain and defeat the protagonist. The game also draws comparisons between the villain and Joel and suggests that Joel is not so different from the woman who kills him. In fact, if Joel were in Abby's shoes, he undoubtedly would have done the same thing. Like Joel found Ellie, Abby finds Lev and grows as human being, finds a reason to live again. This is a game that really breaks new ground in storytelling. They found a way to tell a story that can only be done with a videogame. The exploration of how people deal with loss and the consequences is perfectly executed. It's also an intellectually, emotionally and morally challenging experience. Players who hate this game don't want a game that forces them to think critically.
1425) This game is amazing. I loved history and abby.,I dont care another people.,In My opinion, this game is a f***ing masterpeice
1426) Marvellous, wonderful,giving chills, out of the world experience.Best exclusive of all playstation gen. A must have game for all.
1427) Give this game a chance! It may not be the ending we want, but it was the most thought provoking.
1428) melhor jogo juntamente com the last of us remastered. aguardando multiplayer
1429) Say what ever you want this is the best game ever All the 0 and 1 are stupid people because they are used to revenge a boring story but this game has teaches you about revenge the bad side of revenge
1430) Naughty Dog, this is easily your guys’ best work since Uncharted 2 and there is a reason why you guys are the top underdogs in the gaming business on delivering the very best experience as possible and I hope you guys get royally compensated for creating this incredible follow-up masterpiece. No wonder why HBO’s The Last of Us is happening with Neil Druckmann and Chernobyl’s Craig Mazin on-board for the live adaptation..
1431) This game made me feel happiness, sadness,  hate, regrets, and all of that was the creador intentions, amazed me all the time whit the escenarios, the music, adictive, I think a lot of people aren't Brady or liked to feel how its to live in that dificult world, simply a masterpiece I love it
1432) I feel like I'm taking crazy pills. I have no other choice but to believe the systemic 0-2 ratings are from an astroturfing campaign of disgruntled gamergaters.,I was a huge fan of TLOU and, as you can imagine, the sequel was one of the most anticipated games for me - for years. I ore-ordered three minutes i could.,I honestly have no idea what the hell people are talking about saying the story is bad or the game play mechanics are somehow lacking. This game is phenomenal, bar bone. I've enjoyed it so and, while U know it will take baby years to develop, i am excited about three possibility of a TLOU3.
1433) Thank you for this masterpiece. i enjoyed every single moment in it. it's not like the first one but you guys still did a good job. i don't care what people are saying 99% of this people they didnt even play the game!
1434) I just cant understand why people hate this game. killing off the main character at the start of the game is a brave move, and I feel like it’s a good way of activating a revenge story. Combat is AMAZING (as it was before), Npc are clever and they even have their own f***ing names, graphics are on the next level of coolness, the story just makes sense!,10/10
1435) I've played it three times so far. Let's talk about my feelings:,,The first time (out of control): is the director a fool? I just want to kill Abby. Don't wash her white. I don't care what penis she has. You have to force me to control this **** **** Are you ****,The second time (calm down): Abby, it's really miserable. I know why you didn't kill Ellie. Although the hatred of killing her father was so unforgettable, when you killed Joel at the beginning, you finally said that you didn't want to be like them (Joel). And you know the fact that Ellie is immune. Isn't it his father's ultimate wish to end this plague? But I still can't accept that Ellie doesn't kill you. Don't ask why, I just don't accept ！,,The third time (wake up): tlous2 is so amazing that it is undoubtedly one of the most competitive games in 2020. At the same time, it is also the only game in which all chaotic emotions can be truly injected into the hearts and minds of players with the development of human beings. It is more real than the body feeling game of Wii and the experience brought by VR and AR. my spirit has collapsed and my price is high The values have also collapsed. I can't tell who is right and who is wrong. I only know that the last survivors have lost everything around them. The only reason they live is that they are so lucky. In front of nature, human beings are so unbearable that they will not repent. No one is the winner. And Abby and ally finally let go of each other may represent a very small number of people in that environment Still keep that trace of human nature of the survivors Isn't this the experience of the end of the world?
1436) **** the haters, this game is awesome! It's a long game, which to me I wish it would never end. What an amazing serie.
1437) I've beaten the game about a month ago. Still, I can't help it but think about the storyline all the time. It's amazing how bold and incredible this game is. No words can describe this better than "An emotional roller coaster." 10/10
1438) I was curious as to why so many users scored it so low, then it dawned on me that they are salty because it did not turn out the way they wanted it to be. To say the game is anything less than a 8 is not being honest. I played it in its entirely and can honestly say that I enjoyed it as much as part one. The graphics on the PS4 pro look amazing and makes me feel good in which the direction sony is going in.  The story was very interesting and I have no problem with them switching things up.  The only complaint I have is i didn’t necessarily think that the amount of gore had to be the way that it was. other then that, this one if Naughty’s best games.
1439) This game is a beautifully crafted title that deserves positive recognition. Naughty Dog outdid themselves, for which they made a high standard, and pushed the envelope in order to produce a stellar work of art.,,Presentation:,This game is a master-crafted work of art. From the largest of environments to the smallest of details, the artists and developers ensured that nearly every aspect of the world created received a surprising amount of attention. The world that they visually created feels lived in and helps the player feel grounded. The movements of the characters, the npcs, and how assets around both alter when interacted with is phenomenal and is often overlooked in most games. Examples of this: the way snow, dirt, mud, water moves when coming into contact. The way the aforementioned gets onto the characters' clothing and persons.  How the environment acts in general: streams of water falling down are altered depending on wind physics, reflections appearing on reflective surfaces like walls, tvs, metal piping, zippers moving when in motion, clothing moving with the wind.  All of this comes together in harmony to masterfully present a truly realised world that is believable and a joy to experience.,,Story:,No spoilers. I'll say that the story is not as tight or singularly focused as the first. That's not a bad thing, but it might be if a player is going into the game expecting a story that is very similar to the first. There are flashbacks and whilst they do provide relevant backstory and are of interest, I can see how some might find the placement of the flashbacks to be a bit jarring at times and may not be as cohesive to the story-telling as one might like. Overall the story is a good one that invokes a lot of emotions. It is rife with depressing, difficult moments along with moments of lightheartedness and humour. In general and by the end, you do end up feeling a connection with the characters of the story. Even the minor ones, and even the ones who you thought you never would.,,This is a wonderful experience that took me nearly 38 hours to complete as I, a lover of the first game, enjoy the world of The Last of Us and don't mind taking my time with Ellie and the gang. I definitely recommend.
1440) This game is incredible. I've never had a game that manages to change my emotions and feelings about characters as it progresses. Originally, I hated Abby and wanted nothing more than to get revenge. But as you progress, you come to realise she is very similar to Joel. You come to care about her, so that when you get to that bit in the cinema, your emotions are all over the place. The game was visually stunning, great audio track and good action sequences. But for me, the real experience was in the progression of the characters and the realisation that there are no good people in this post apocalyptic world. A remarkable achievement in a game. I'm astounded at the poor reviews on here. I think people are missing the whole point of the game, which is a real shame, because I think it's a masterpiece.
1441) The Last of Us 2 is a technical marvel that pushes the boundaries of cinematic gameplay blended with masterful storytelling. The game will leave you emotionally drained in the best way over the course of around 25 hours, during which you will be forced to make hard choices and reexamine your own personal morals.
1442) The game was great, gameplay was amazing. Story was spectacular and dark. Intense to say the least.I think, put simply, the polarisation that the story created reflects the IQ gap within the gaming community. If you can't separate your illogical emotional biases from the fictional characters and, as a result, think the plot is "bad", you're low IQ. Thanks Naughty Dog for the emotional rollercoaster and for taking risks.
1443) the game is really good i enjoyed every part of it every yes there are some parts in the story that makes you a Little sad but every aspect of the game is amazing the story is solid and the graphics are so realistic and the gameplay is so excellent so in conclusion i recommend the game so mush i give it 10 out of 10 this game is a MASTERPIECE
1444) Amazing game, they did a really good job. Sad for all the people who didn't like it, there just angry because it isn't a average story and they projected there own issues in it.
1445) The graphics and the story are wonderful, I would say that TLOU 2 is better than TLOU 1, and it's all the truth. The life is not always happy, like this game, don't hope to find in this a game with flowers and Mickey Mouse dancing in a rainbow. TLOU 2 takes risks and it is a game that will be remember  through the years.
1446) Such a wonderful game with a good graphic and story. the gameplay gets a pretty drastic improvement from the first part, and also the detail of the game was amazing.,Good job Naughty Dog! looking forward for multiplayer mode and part 3.
1447) This game shows that the game is no longer a culture of Nerd.,However, some hater's criticism still keeps them trapped in the nerds. They're idiots.,They are abandoning the way can enhance the value of game. Yeah, the heaters are stupid.,Heaters are proving themselves to be just fools who want to get only simple visual fun.,I think this game has gone beyond the cinematic experience. absolutely It is historical.
1448) Great, painful, emotional Game with brilliant Graphics and good storytelling.
1449) I don't, understand why people hate this game,the story, game play are not bad, Naughty Dog created beautiful game
1450) An incredible storyline, Well done to writers.,An incredible storyline, Well done to writers!
1451) One of the best games I ever played. And I played many, many games. You have the feeling that every character is a real person with real personality. And I must say, I loved that whole Abby thing.
1452) Of course, the game has flaws, but just not justified expectations from the players. If this game was the first in the series, NO ONE would say anything that the game is bad. All these estimates from 0 to 5 are not justified! People worked for many years, worked through each one to surprise the player, how many people lost their jobs, quarreled with family or friends so that, as a result, an idiot who does not understand the whole depth of morality and does not respect the work of developers. Yes, the game is not perfect, but it deserves at least 7-8 points. It’s interesting to re-run the game a second time, it’s very good and I’m sure that if the third part is announced and the Naughty dog ​​takes into account the mistakes of the last game, then it is the best game of the year. Now the game lacks random events that can happen to the hero during the game, it can be cheaters who ask for help (as in 1 game) or the person really needs help and you can take him into the squad, cold, energy from the character and help allies in the city, the choice that does not affect the plot, but only on the perception of the game. Remove trash bins, fill the card since they made it so big and not make story holes, if only the hero survived for further decoupling. In the third part, developers need to touch on how I consider the value of friendship and caring for each other and then the game will come out even better! 10/10
1453) Top 3 games I've ever player! Amazing story, incredible analogy on a post-apocaliptic society!
1454) Nothing like the first and for that I loved it. Could've been better especially during the flashbacks.
1455) i wasn't fan the first part this game. But after playing in second part i became him. Screenplay, graphics, gameplay are all on the wonderful level. My respect for developers.
1456) Before I start, if you see a review below 7/10, it's from a person who saw leaks out of order and was unhappy with what they saw. They didn't play the game, and thus have no idea how amazing it is. They only came here because Metacritic doesn't have any account linking to prove you've actually played the game (like Steam does -- this should be mandatory), and all the crybabies who saw the leaks review bombed it, hoping it wouldn't become PS4's bestseller. Well guess what, it's been nearly 2 months now and people are STILL talking about TLOU Part II.,,Now, let's get to the good stuff. The review!,,This is by far the best video game ever created for the PS4. The visuals outshine that of The Last of Us. The actual details (if you make Ellie go prone repeatedly on cement, she'll have scrapes on her forearms and wrists). The story is really great (although I feel like they could have made the game longer to expand on a few things). But overall I thought this was the best game I have ever played on PS4 from Naughty Dog. SO good in fact that I played this game 3 times in a row (not only to get the platinum, which was easier without factions), but because I just love the whole Last of Us world (and I waited 7 years to be with Ellie in her world again).,,I HIGHLY recommend this game. The quality outshines any other game out there. Naughty Dog created new tech just for realistic EYES!,,Do yourself a favor and buy this game. The story hits hard, but that's okay.
1457) The best game of the generation without a doubt, I liked all the new characters and the construction of the old ones too, this is more than a simple game, it is a masterpiece, few games would have the courage to show the motivations of the "Villain".
1458) Ok, I finished this game a few weeks ago and drafted a few reviews. I cannot express how much I thought about this game since I finished it. I was going to make a massive review but the I decided to abridge it based on a Reddit comment I made. Here is the (somewhat) short and sweet review:,I played the game and loved it the whole way through, the graphics and gameplay are universally admired by all and for good reason too. The stealth is fun in a way that is hard to describe, it’s not rooted in realism, it takes a much more videogamey approach where you can just slaughter enemies to your heart’s content. The combat is always frantic, especially when up close when you have few resources and are fighting for your life. The graphics are spectacular. However they managed to squeeze this much beauty into a 7 year old console astounds me. The remastered on PS5 with ray tracing will probably be the benchmark for next gen graphics for a few years at least. It makes Red Dead 2 pale in comparison. The environments are beautiful and realistic, not just the basic cover filled hallways and open areas we see in most linear games. The game even branches out in places letting you explore areas of Seattle. But the story... you see, there’s one major character in the game who gets quite a lot of time, some people didn’t connect with this character, which entirely ruined the story for them(which I would completely understand) I was lucky enough to like the character and therefore the story. The game was always meant to be decisive and this meant that a lot of people felt let down by it. You can’t really tell if it’s for you or not without playing it yourself so don’t listen to the “SJW” fanboys or the “incel” haters! Thanks for making this game Naughty Dog :)
1459) The story, the AI, the animation work, the improved gameplay mechanics, the atmosphere, the sick feeling you sometimes get when killing NPCs ... this is a special game.,,MGS2 had an eerily similar reaction on internet forums to TLOU2 when it came out. The fact that some people hated MGS2 and overreacted didn't change the fact that it was a great game. [Links omitted per site rules],,But back then it wasn't possible for grifters with a political agenda to rally an army of like-minded to spam a single site with thousands of negative reviews (zeros ... c'mon) upon a game's release. Logistically, it was impossible for the 3.3 user score to be a genuine reaction based on actually playing the game.,,TheQuartering and the other Youtubers that have attacked this game haven't even played it as they have "reliable sources" (a small handful of mixed reviews). They're not an intellectually honest group of people: "The Last Of Us 2 Sales PLUMMET 80% & Games FLOOD The Used Market!" This is an almost identical sales drop as Uncharted 4 which is not unusual for an AAA release. I knew they would cherry pick this data (they're grifters) and I honestly feel bad for anyone stupid enough to fall for their crap.,,TLOU2 is a brilliant game. Not everyone has to agree but the reaction to the game really has been absurd to anyone with more than a few brain cells. If someone hasn't intentionally spoiled this game on you (unlikely), go in fresh and keep an open mind.
1460) Amazing life experience. It's probably the most realistic game I have ever play, a grim reality. Were people are humans and commit mistakes that they regret by time. It's not the tipical Hollywood plot where heroes are good and villians bad and the hero always wins and does the right thig. That is why all the hait, many gamers are not use to this tipe of stories.
1461) Amazing game, stunning graphics and sound, story far beyond all that i have seen, every character well developed and with their own "reasons", every action have consequences. People that write negative review are weak minded and from the past. This is truly masterpiece in every way.
1462) It's a game who isn't afraid of taking bold moves, like making you play the character who  killed the previous main character and is widely successful to make you like this character. I mean, by the end of it I didn't want Ellie to kill Abby or Abby to Kill Ellie. And the gameplay is a blast
1463) This is an absolutely incredible game. The haters can hate all they want. I do understand why people would not like a game like this game. To play half the game as the person Ellie is supposed to kill is difficult. But the conflict which I experienced inside my own mind was nothing like anything I have experienced. I think this sets up part 3 beautifully.
1464) The Last of us Part 2 pushed the industry in a new direction. The amount of emotions I felt playing the game was something I never felt before and for that alone I recommend the purchase of the game. The graphics are amazing and gameplay is similar to The last of us 1 however everything is turned up to a new level.
1465) Im gonna Say this cause I have to Most of you have been trashing this game so hard it just feels like you like the game in reality. Nobody said that this game would be the same type of plot and story as the first game so if you wanted that well Idk where tf u have been living under cause they never said it would focus on joel and ellie adventure idiots. Second of all Play the **** game or Watch a full Playthrough of the game no commentary and form your god own opinion u **** imbeciles stop listening to others to form ur own a opinion on a game third of all stop **** spamming this game with a 0/10 you idiots it ain’t gonna make a difference wether its goty or not and **** lastly this game is perfect Its dark gritty emotional and Leaves u hella depresses and if ur gonna say the game is **** cause it didnt make u happy well listen kiddo That was never its intentions and that just means ur **** over a **** game.
1466) This game is phenomenal. The story, characters, acting, gameplay, atmosphere, graphics, sound, level design are all amazing. The narrative is as good as any game I've played. It's just extremely brutal and shocking. But so was the first one. The gameplay is more developed this time, and it allows you to be more creative in how you approach the levels. The game is **** scary, so my approach involved a lot of cowering and poorly timed sneaking followed by mayhem. I think if you liked the first game, RDR2 or Witcher 3, then there's a good chance you'll like this. It's every bit as good as they are. The game is a goddam masterpiece. It does take it's time though so don't expect some fast-paced twitchy shooter. And it's massively violent, so beware of that.
1467) A very underrated game, I liked it very much. A worthy continuation of the great game!
1468) I feel as though I'm in some kind of alternate universe to everyone else playing this game. I found it gripping from start to finish. To those saying there is no character development, I am absolutely befuddled. The writing of both Ellie and Abby is stellar. Ellie begins transfixed with this idea of revenge, much like the player does. But then Naughty Dog forces us to play as a character designed to be hated. They are taking us out of our comfort zone, which is what an emotionally compelling story should do. They tasked themselves with the seemingly impossible job of lifting both the player and Ellie out of this spiral of hatred, revenge and self-destruction. And not only did they manage to pull it off, they did so all while staying grounded and true to the characters. I truly think it rivals the first game in terms of its storytelling and I feel distraught for the fans who did not enjoy it in the same way I did.
1469) GOAT Best game of this generation no cap , who say the opposite don’t deserve it !
1470) Before I get into story, first off gameplay is **** amazing. A lot similar to the first game but with more different moves such as jumping in the air to kill an enemy below and more. Weapon upgrades as well as skill upgrades are also nice and great with character mannerisms. When it comes to story, well just like the first game is a masterpiece. The new cast of characters are just as well written as the ones before, each presenting different sides of Ellie & Abby just as much as the world of The Last Of Us. It is definitely a dark story but in a way that is a fitting sequel, the writing in this game at first glance looks quite risky but it works. Showing in depths Ellie’s regression throughout the game as she becomes the immoral man some call a monster, Joel and Abby as she finally finds her father’s murder believing killing him would end her pain but no a part of regretted what she has she done and kills another part of herself as she carries her guilt which at first even goes further and reach Yara & Lev as seen in her dream, but she is able to find her way in the end with Lev, this is her redemption arc. Ellie struggles to live and not do anything about her Father’s death so she goes on a vengeful journey eliminating all WLF members that entered Jackson before until she reaches Abby. I love how they tease us the players with a happy ending for both Ellie & Abby and just get swept away fast reminding us this is The Last Of Us. For Abby and Lev is the rattlers getting them outta nowhere and torturing them and for Ellie her PTSDand Trauma gets stronger and stronger eating her soul but then Tommy arrives reveals where Abby is and Ellie goes out one more time for Revenge in the end she spares Abby because she was able to resist and see Joel and herself in Abby and Lev as well understands why she did this in the first place. Ellie still has her humanity, she realises this is not what Joel would want for her, he would want her to be free forgive let go of him and move on. She comes to the conclusion she went this path trying to be like him and it did no good for the people around her. I Hope we get a Part III where is about Ellie’s redemption arc. Thank you Neil Druckman and the whole team behind this, already beat the game twice right now on holiday can’t wait to get back home and play through a 3rd time but on Survivor this time.
1471) the game is amazing. i really enjoying playing this game. this is a literally roller coaster of emotions. thank you naughty dog for this beautiful game,,and for my favorite game ever. p.s.  i got a platinum trophy on this game ...
1472) Just as good as the original. Awesome attention to detail, immersive environment, and fighting mechanics.
1473) This game definitely dont deserve such a bad user score and it really tells something about users on this platform when Ghost of taushima have user score like 93 and Tlou 2 53. I understand rage because of lgbt and feminism propaganda and I understand that TLOU 1 fans (which I am) Didnt liked the twist in the middle but still I really feel sad for naughty dog cause I can just imagine how much effort and soul they put in this game.
1474) Master piece, this game made fill everything. If dont played it yet you're losing a great expirience.
1475) The gameplay has seen a lot of improvements and the graphics are incredible. I loved the variety of areas to see and the length of the story was more than double the first game. Some may complain about the length as dragging, but it honestly feels like two games in one and I took my time playing it so it never felt particularly dragging for me. I was really happy to get such a complex and lengthy story out of a Naughty Dog game where most of them are significantly shorter.,,I absolutely loved the game. I really don't understand the criticisms of the story. It's a story of revenge and the actions of the characters lead you down a brutal path that leaves you feeling conflicted about them and that's intentional. People complaining about Ellie's actions or the other character you play as seem to be ignoring the actual underlying story or something. I really liked the second half of the game where you switch to Abby and see her perspective on things, her own personal drive for revenge is nuanced and her allies that Ellie ruthlessly kills get their own level of attention that shows they're not all horrible or evil, but just humans trying to survive like Ellie. I loved the world-building and getting to see from the perspective of the bad guys (both the WLF and Seraphites).
1476) The last of us part 2 is a work of art. The gameplay and atmosphere alone are second to none. The story is original, and truly leaves the player with a message. The acting is great, and is helped by the incredible animation. The boundaries this game pushes are astounding. The portrayal of ellie and dina's reltionship is beliveable and makes the player love the characters even more. Abbys half of the game begins as a painful struggle, but the player grows to love abby as well, leading to a painful choice. It forces the player to examine themselves and whether they have the ability to cope with loss.,,Also the game is great cause it follows the ancient laws: be gay, do crime. Ellie is gay, and she does crime. 10/10
1477) An absolute masterpiece.,TLOU2 pushes games to new heights in performance, narrative, and art. This game doesn't give you a pat on the head/rescue the princess reward at the end. It doesn't explain everything so things are wrapped up in a neat bow with everyone living happily ever after. It leaves things open to interpretation, discussion, it provokes strong emotions and makes you think... that is what art does. I truly take my hat off to Naughty Dog and their courage to create something this brave and mature.,,Please don't listen to the negativity and hate being directed towards this, if you do, you'll miss out on something very special.
1478) Suck my dick  you **** nazis, bla bla bla epic game you have no idea you stupid minecraft players
1479) One of this generation’s defining achievements. Slick, versatile combat/stealth mechanics. Impeccable visuals and world-building. Masterly use of tension and release. Some of the best voice acting in gaming. And a gripping non-linear narrative that pushes the medium forward.
1480) Masterpiece. Some people judged the game without even playing it. They based their reaction from leaks. I love everything about this game.
1481) The last of us Part 2 raised the standards of video games so much, including gameplay, visuals, AI, and the insane amount of attention to detail. This game is Amazing. 10/10
1482) Definitely worth it, yes disappointed by Joel's death but the game was amazing!!
1483) This is the best game, maybe some didn’t like it, but this is a masterpiece it will remain in my heart forever.  She taught me a lot.
1484) Game of the year !This game is  Incridible in the Game history ! The garphich is giant and story is fantastic
1485) Absolute masterpiece. Fun playthrough, some scares, great action, great story
1486) (SPOILER FREE) This game is emotionally challenging and requires players to really dig in to themselves and examine their own biases and motivations. As an enormous fan of the first game and someone who grew to really connect with those characters, I was wary of the narrative this game created (particularly after reading some other fans’ reviews). But after beating it, I really believe the studio did justice to all of the characters in the end. In the least spoiler way I can say - there is a period in the middle of the game where I legitimately wanted to stop playing because I didn’t want to play as the character I was in control of. However, a couple hours later, I became really invested in the story and new perspective. Visually the game is stunning. Gameplay is incredibly solid, though it is quite violent at times. I’m not a squeamish person, and I still found myself cringing at times. Overall, this game is truly an emotional experience that makes you THINK. So many diehard fans out there are saying that the studio has ruined their favorite characters, and I just really don’t buy that. Just because the story didn’t go the way you expected/hoped based on your dreams of a sequel doesn’t mean it isn’t a perfectly crafted story with fully realized and developed character motivations. Play this game. Sit with this game. Experience this game. Don’t let the negative reviews scare you away.
1487) Great gameplay, almost stunning. The most beautiful game nowadays. Story has many questions, but if not, it wouldn’t be so great. Perfect game!
1488) I do love this in every way possible, gameplay looks fun and innovative, graphics looks so sharp and lush, as for the story i loved how it goes from the last point of the first game and how it ended without anymore bloodshed, Ellie did good by letting Abby lives, and she did right by Joel in my opinion, as of inclusion of LGBQT+ i see it doesn't affect the story at all, my rate is still standing at 10/10 Masterpiece game.
1489) This is the best game for me. I have waited for this part for years and it was very good and I congratulate the developing team on this bite that they gave
1490) The Last of Us Part Two is a flawed masterpiece. The gameplay is very polished version of the first game and is absolutely incredible. The game has some of the best graphics you can get on a console game. The story is very good if you just give it a chance. At times the pacing can be poor, but overall it's a very good story!
1491) Game of the year 2020,Best story Best gameplay,Best music Best graphic,Best character development,Remember:You have to play the last of us part II twice to understand the whole story
1492) I have already finish The game and I really enjoy it, it’s something different because you don’t expect a lot of things that happens in here like Joel’s dead or like Ellie don’t kill Abby but at the end you understand the message that the game gives to you, maybe it’s a cliche but that leaves you saying, damn Ellie lost everything because she don’t leave the idea to take revenge until she understands that the best it’s to leave everything that happened before because Joel’s not coming back, we appreciate him because we knew him for a while but he is not a good guy, the things he do (that we understand why he do it) takes him at the end and return to him as Abby that kill him. What I’m saying it’s that the game is really good the matter with the people it’s that they don’t understand the whole story and the meaning of it. For me it’s one of my favorite game that I have played in my whole life.
1493) Simply a masterpiece in gaming that pushes the medium to new heights. An unforgettable experience. This game is masterful in its storytelling, technical achievement, smooth gameplay, and art direction. Most of all this game did something that no other art form could do to this extent when it comes to building empathy for another human being. Hats off to the Naughty Dog team!
1494) I’m an Xbox fanboy, but this game has the best story I’ve ever played. So well written, so well acted, I’m haunted by it’s themes long after finishing it. It even caused me to leave a review here! Ha ha. It’s a true tragedy that so many internet trolls, who have never played it, are giving it bad score based on leaks and rumors. It’s one of the best games ever made and sets a new bar for storytelling in video games.
1495) This game tore my heart apart.,,The story is amazing. Even though some parts of the game might be annoying, or it might be hard to understand Naughty Dog decisions at the beginning, you will figure it out later in the game.,So even if you feel that something is wrong at some point - don't give up, just finish the game and understand it.,,Mechanics complements the story. Raw brutality is very realistic, and helps with immersion. That might be bad though, my mind will never be the same after playing TLoU 2.,,I guess that bad score is mostly from people who didn't actually finish the game. Believe me - I wanted to give it a 6 at one point. But I have managed to go through it and well... it was worth it.
1496) It took me 31 hours to complete this masterpiece. It is truly a once in a generation kind of game. Graphics: 10,Sound: 10,Gameplay: 10,Story: bleak, tough, on the same level as the original. Maybe better.
1497) The short version of this review: a next-gen game, on a current-gen platform in every way, except the 30fps.,The slightly longer version: This game is AMAZING. No story, especially in video games, has made me cry, think, and reflect like this one has, not even the first game! It is not an easy story to swallow, as it’s heavy-handed, brutal, and complex. But once you start connecting the dots, it becomes one of the best stories in any medium ever! The feeling of “connecting the dots” reminds me of Shutter Island starring Leo DiCaprio. The first time around, it’s kinda confusing until the big twist comes. But if you decide to go for a second watch, everything starts to mean something more, and you see all the inter-woven stories a lot better.,And with such a high quality game, why wouldn’t you want to play it again (besides the emotional trauma and sadness it’ll probably give you)? It’s outstanding in every way. Story and Characters? Excruciatingly Amazing and Human. Extremely immersive. Will probably leave you sad, hollow and empty by the end.,Gameplay? A smoother, more refined and expanded version of the OG TLOU’s formula. You can be a lot more creative with this one. Melee Combat and Gunplay feel and play amazing and Stealth gives off MGSV vibes.,Technical stuff and Presentation? Top. **** Notch. The graphics are straight out of a PS5, save for the 30fps. The level design? The closest to perfection so far. Acting and animations both in-game and cutscene? The best we’ve had, bar NONE. World Building thru collectibles, dialogue and the subtle details in the environment? On par with, or maybe even better than, RDR2. Polish? Very few glitches and no game-breaking ones.,My personal Game of the Year and Generation, and arguably my favorite game of all time, in contention with Part 1 and MGS3.
1498) To simply call this game a "revenge is bad" plotline is not only a disservice to the game's intricately woven dual narrative, but also to the range of progression video games have come.
1499) the game is great and deserves Game of the Year. Beautiful graphics, story and gameplay
1500) Surprise at first, by the 2-nd half with Abby but nice to play in the end !,I was relived by the end because, Ellie&Abby had the same revenge quest but one finally stop it...,,I like the gameplay too :),But maybe too many humans alive & ready to kill on sight for an post-apo world
1501) I enjoyed my time with last of us 2 I loved the gameplay the AI the graphics the music and the story was emotional at first I hated abby but after finishing her part I didn't hate her as much I loved last of us 2 and I hope naughty dog makes a part 3
1502) Despite the extremely polarizing reviews of "The Last of Us: Part 2" I decided to buy and play it anyway, being a hugggeeee fan of the first game I couldn't miss out on this. My opinion is that this is absolutely a 10/10 game. It is hands down one of the most phenomenal pieces of storytelling to ever hit the gaming industry. It was an emotional roller coaster of love, sadness, empty revenge, and self realization. I would also be remiss if i did not mention incredible voice acting that puts much of the acting we see on tv to shame. The connections to the characters that are built make you feel every gut wrenching emotion or glimmer of happiness they feel. Also worth mentioning that this game has some of the most impressive graphics and facial animation I've ever seen on a console game. Everything about this masterpiece comes together nicely,,It seems most of the people who didn't like game are truly missing the point of the game. This isn't a game about revenge, its a game about people who have lost sight of themselves and moral values, but ultimately are reminded of who they really are, unfortunately at a significant cost. This game shows us that revenge is not what its chalked up to be. Take a second to actually put yourself in Abbys shoes, the bloodlust she felt is not too different from how many feel about Joel. We lost Joel, yes....and it sucked but its what MADE the game hit so hard. Its clear Abby is on some level remorseful for her actions.  She still doesn't sleep well, she struggles to make real connections with people, and is an emotional wreck. But though all this she encounters Lev who helps Abby find herself once again, even when she is at risk of her darkest moment, about to kill a pregnant woman (Dina) who would have just been collateral damage in this situation, and then backs off. The hardest part about this is watching Ellie make all the same mistakes as Abby on her revenge quest, while the audience knows full well that it wont solve her problems, whether they will admit it or not and despite how we all feel about Joel. In the end when Abby is spared, it was only when Ellie hit absolute rock bottom that she realized the error of her ways.....taking an incredible toll on her spirit. The ending was perfect. People interpret it alot of different ways, but the absence of Ellie's bracelet (which Dina gave her),  while she was in Santa Barbara, and then the fact that she was wearing it again at the end sequence back at the farm, no longer bloodied up, fingers healed, no longer carrying her weapons she had and unconcerned about Dina and JJ's absence shows us a large passing of time and tells me she had already been back to Jackson and just stopped by the farm to say one last final goodbye to her last connection to Joel.....The guitar. At least thats what i'm hopeful for.,,The other group of people who didn't like the game are reading too deeply into their own bigoted views and what they perceive to be propaganda. *big eye roll* just enjoy the damn game, no one is shoving their values down your throat here. I really thought we were past all that.....,,10/10 highly recommend, This wasn't just a game, it was an experience. All great art evokes a myriad of different emotions and opinions about the subject. So if anything the polarizing reviews of this game are proof of what a masterful piece of art this really is! What an absolute pleasure it was to play, I sincerely hope the devs are not discouraged and we get a third.
1503) I traveled this game with a lot of emotions... one of the only games that make me feel many emotions like this. Really, this is a piece of art.
1504) Great game, its dark and brave. Gameplay is very good and the world design is rich.
1505) Solid gameplay, solid story, solid cast.  Keeping it simple because the ridiculous backlash for the game is unwarranted and silly. Not here to argue over people’s twisted sensitivity over strong female characters, representation of different body types and orientations, and the revenge story that ND decided to tell. Tragedy is a method of story telling, and if that makes you uncomfortable then that is part of the reaction Tragedies will have on some, but there is a message. If you are blind to that and simply just lean towards anger and rage then that’s on you and your immaturity on the topic. I don't mean you have to be happy by the tragedies that do happen, it's ok to be upset, sad, or even mad when these events happen.  However, if your reaction is to troll, send death threats to people who worked on the game, discriminate and attack the different shapes of women and other things that this game brings up then that reaction and behavior is disgusting.   Great game in terms of story and gameplay. If you like the first one, then you will have a blast with this.
1506) The most technological game, with excellent gameplay and a good story.,The graphics are on top. The combat system is awesome.
1507) Loved every bit of it! The environment, controls, and story were all phenomenal
1508) The last of us part II is brave.  And it does not risk in vain.  The game starts with the usual magnificent perspective, that of Joel and Ellie, the protagonists of the first chapter.  From the graphics, to the shooting system, to the ruined setting that highlights the beauty of nature, every clash is breathtaking, every twist unpredictable, the certain motivation is perfectly conveyed by Naughty Dog, with that death of Joel that is not at all dignified, it's not what we would have liked, but this is the strong point of the scene.  We're angry at everyone and everything and we have the strength to move on.  But when Abby enters the theater, then everything changes.  We go over to the side of a character who pushes us to empathise.  If the aim had been to make us love or almost love that character, then the story would have had to unfold in a different way: a comfortable pretty girl, a story from the beginning that leads us to the not-so-brutal killing of Joel.  However, The last of us is an uncomfortable product: not by what we want, it doesn't seek ephemeral success, but transcends the game dimension making Abby's one (big) parenthesis to open up another perspective.  So that we can question ourselves, without distinguishing right from wrong.  At the end of this journey the loss of the two fingers is very heavy for Ellie: on the one hand it's negative, because she abandons the guitar and Joel, on the other side of the coin however (and this is the recurring theme) abandoning Joel means to forgive him (true founding theme of the adventure) and go on.  Towards a new light.  And also Abby is looking for a new light, together with Lev and after completing his journey of redemption.,The last of us part 2 in short is a product that transcends consumerism, and even if not the poignant narrative beauty of the first, manages to reach extraordinary emotional heights, almost a Picasso painting with a fourth dimension in the first battle between Abby and Ellie.,It's uncomfortable, and devastating.  It's not what the boorish vulgar, superficial consumer wanted, but an intimate transcription of how things went after the first, the only way they could go, as if they had written themselves.  Making this The last of us Part II is the perfect complementary PART of the first chapter, and it is a title that paints in a shocking way, opening a new level of depth in the videogame world, a glimpse of both inner and outer reality.  This work is and will remain great precisely because it has been evaluated in a divisive way, there are those who love it and those who hate it, but it leaves no one indifferent.    (free version) H
1509) The game does not deserve this amount of backlash, it is true that the false marketing campaign for Joel absolutely sucked but looking at the game story objectively without fan boy views it is actually a masterpiece
1510) This game must be played to truly understand it. There's a lot of context needed, the journey in it's entirety is an amazing experience and an emotional roller coaster. Yes, some events will make you mad, but that doesn't mean the game isn't worth. The game isn't for everyone, but I feel sorry for those who let the leaks keep them from playing it. If the leaks made you feel like you need to rate it poorly without playing it, or even watching spoiler post launch reviews, you have a lot of growing up to do. It's an experience, and if you come out the other side and still don't like it for what it is - that is completely understandable.
1511) This game topped Part 1 for me.,Probably the best game and story this year!,Every man for himself and hunted by the demons of the past.,There are neither good nor bad people in this world, just survival and revenge.
1512) only someone with 1 braincell won’t be able to understand the ending, which is amazing
1513) The greatest, most brilliant story I've seen in a game. A story that perfectly depicted human nature when the structure of society is all but gone. Joel's death is a high price to pay, even for the storywriters, but it is the fuel that will keep you hooked to the game for the rest for the rest of it, craving for vengeance, only to realize that vengeance will not solve anything. And from that point on it becomes a battle of Ellie against herself and her own traumas. Ellie ends up killing the people in the gang completely blinded by her desire for revenge, including the only WLF guy who stood to defend her (Owen) and a pregnant Mel. Only to end up finding an Abby who has finally tried to redeem herself and for once do something nice for another person. Had Ellie killed Abby she would have proven that ellie is as **** as her. And it was by forgiving abby, and by fighting her on a one on one fight ( even though she started with a knife). That she really realized that the only way to forgive Joel, and to forgive herself was to forgive Abby. This story is out of this world its simply much deeper than anything I've seen before. The only real problem is that players don't really have the stomach for something like this. We have all been educated to live in a world of fantasy and avoid watching gruesome videos in real life, and this game forces you a mouthful of pain and brutality of a real world down your throat. I'm not saying this game is for everyone. But if you can see beyond all the blood and violence, you will find the most humane characters ever seen on a game. This is simply brilliant to me. To force people to accept the reality of some countries even today, but this time in the United states in a Post apocalyptic world. If you can't handle a story like this, I totally get it. I just think that the whole story is an instrospection into Ellie's mind and her Nemesis to show, that in the end, they are both just humans.
1514) While I would probably actually give the game a 9.5 I feel like I have to give it a 10 cuz of all the **** who didn’t play the game and just review bombed it.
1515) The attention to detail, graphics, story and performances in this game are the best ive ever seen, if u are a fan of the first game then this sequel will not dissapoint, its a must play. I find the critics score on this is on point and i rarely agree with critics and im puzzled by the low user score to be honest, just trust me if ur fan of the first u need to play this game.
1516) Hands down the best game I have ever played. I've never been so involved emotionality in any piece of digital media. This game made me sad, thoughtfull, frightened, curious, tense and happy to name a few  emotions. The level of craftsmanship and dedication that went into every piece  of this production is staggering.  Everything about this game is amazing. Im 30+ years old and I have played a lot of games. And the only reason I just now created this account is so that I can raise this game up from the embarrassing user score it has now. It really is an 10/10 game.,Buy it and play it. Now.
1517) I don't get why some people hate the game. Is it because the ending is not like what they expected? Or they are just fans of Joel? I loved the game a lot. I would say it's the best video game I ever played
1518) seriously? So many people gave note 0 just because didn't like the storyline? I respect who didn't like the storyline  but the graphics, jogability and the details wich are INSANE don't count? if you consider yourself really a gamer you gave more thant that. Kids
1519) Simply the best story driven game released in the PlayStation 4. It's gut wretching but it's brilliant!
1520) he Last of Us Part 2 shows us one thing, that the video games industry (unlike Cinema which is moving forward at a much slower pace) has a lot more unexplored potential. Part 2 raised the standards of video games so much, and in almost every respect, including gameplay :D
1521) Incredible. No game or piece of entertainment has challenged me on a personal level quite like this masterpiece. Bravo.
1522) An absolute masterpiece. As a fan of the first game since day one, I think the game and the story was way ahead of their time.
1523) The story and gameplay are better then anything I’ve ever experienced before on the PS4 or any other system. I understand why this game is divisive, it’s challenging and asks hard questions that have even harder answers. But the characters the Naughty Dog team creates are so real and multi dimensional that I was consistently shocked I was experiencing this level of storytelling in a video game instead of on TV or in the theatre. Don’t read anything more then you need to before playing this game. The surprises will keep on coming. Enjoy
1524) Are you kidding me with these user reviews? Nobody who actually plays this game all the way through is scoring it a zero. Even if you don't like where the story went - the gameplay, graphics and presentation are near perfection. If you don't like the story score it a 7 or 8 - if you're scoring it a 0 you're obviously trolling. Gamers are so toxic they will review bomb a game just because they don't like the direction of a narrative. Nothing good in this world would ever be created if authors/creators just bent to the will of the audience. 20 years from now we're going to be talking about this game because it actually breaks new ground in storytelling.
1525) Don’t believe the hype from the frustrated little incel twerps spewing hate from mom’s basement. This game is fantastic, a worthy successor to the first installment.
1526) Loved it. Dark, deeply violent and often disturbing. And I thought the story was great too.
1527) Fantastic game all around. I found the story to be very compelling. The gameplay has evolved quite well since the last game. The visuals are simply the best I've seen in a AAA game. This is both the best game I've ever played and one of my favorite games I've ever played.
1528) The best game that I played this year. The narrative is strong and kept me stuck in the game. The characters, their relationships ... Absolutely beautiful. I was extremely upset about Joel's death but the game made up for it, somehow. Oh, and Dina and Ellie are my OTP.
1529) Great game.......great graphic......great story.....,10/10 must play........
1530) Stop underrating this masterpiece before playing ! This unfair ! I know this game is 9 but I have return the balance ! I agree with DarkmasEvgen.
1531) perfectly well-written, amazing graphics, great gameplay. the story could’ve been told differently, but i’m still pleased with the story we got. loved the ending. the ending shows ellie realizing what she’s doing, and that she never wanted to do this, she was so filled with rage from joel’s death that she didn’t realize realize that she was actually hurting those around her, and the vision of joel is joel being there spiritually telling ellie to stop. amazing ending.
1532) People are just mad because Joel died and they end up missing the whole point of this game. It’s not only about revenge, it’s also about grief and how both Ellie and the player have to overcome loss and learn to forgive.
1533) This game is actually amazing. Powerful and beautiful visuals. People are just mad their are strong women and significant LGBT representation. Don’t believe the butt hurt MAGA trollz.
1534) 10/10 gameplay and graphics and a amazing action packed Bloody story best game of 2020 worth the money very good game
1535) A very good continue for this epic games, awesome experience! Sound, photography, history, the scenes all is refined for the complete game experience.
1536) Nearly perfect game... Man, what an emotional trip. Another masterpiece from Naughty Dog. Don't listen to the toxic gamers community, you should absolutely play it!
1537) A masterpiece, without doubt one of the best games ever made. The fact that people are review bombing this with a '0' angers me, it is disrespectful to the years of effort put into building a game of this scale, intricacy and caliber. From graphics, to game mechanics, the environment, storytelling and cutscenes, unbelievably good in every single aspect. I have never been so involved with a game and it's story, each situation you are fully engrossed, put in genuinely stressful and scary situations you feel like you are truly fighting to survive. No other game has made me feel so immersed, 10/10.
1538) Never in a video game have I hated a character so much, only for them to become one of my favourite characters in The Last of Us series. Naughty Dog have truly made something incredible. This game made me feel emotions that I never knew existed. The Last of Us Part II is a masterpiece that has a story worthy of its predecessor. Sadly, by the looks of things, too many people wanted a generic sequel that did the same things as the last game.
1539) All that oponion just because pepole is hater this game must be this way and this message to everyone who love joel and the last of characters
1540) I went into this game without any spoilers and expected it to be good, but not as good as it actually was. I understand the anger and frustration people feel with this game, but I actually feel like over time people will begin to appreciate the true beauty and genius of it. In this world, things can happen in an instant. You can never expect something to go perfectly, and this case Joel’s death. Along with Jessie, etc. The irony of Ellie and abby’s stories being almost identical is incredible. It sends a message of reality and different perspectives! They both did the right thing, going after revenge for their fathers right? In this story neither of them are in the right. It’s funny because I absolutely adore Joel in every shape And form. But he wasn’t the best man in the last of us 1. He was older. Softer and comfortable in the second one. He changed, but it wasn’t all puppies and rainbows. From an unbiased stand point you cannot deny the absolute legendary this game is. I LOVE the perspective, I LOVE that naughty dog didn’t just give the players everything perfect and what they dreamed of. Because life isn’t like that, especially in that world. Just breathtaking and a beautiful new outlook!!
1541) this is the best game i played. much more than a simple experience for fun, the story is deep and brings a reflection on revenge, in several points, using all the feeling built in the first game, to create an incredible story, with magnificent graphics and excellent gameplay. sad that the gamer community is not able to see video games as an artistic medium, and just wants to satisfy their tastes by simple and happy stories.
1542) Really fantastic story line.  Honestly more emotional and beautiful than the first.  gameplay is next level.  I love the dialogue.  Abby is such a good character to the plot.  Ellie is ofc the favorite.  GOTY
1543) This game is so emotional that it drains me every time I play it. It's changed my view on how I view the world, because it's true; we're separated into our own factions. That's a universal and timeless issue. This may seem corny, but I took the game personally, because it's a beautiful and moving story. I just wanted to put it out there to thank the creators and the staff that took the time to make this videogame as well as recommend it to fellow gamers.,,As a comment to all the negative ratings, I get it. Some people just find it hard to empathize. Especially today, where the story is always 'Us' vs. 'Them'. I disagree with these people. I especially disagree with those who also hate the fact that the characters happen to be part of the LGBTQ+ community.,,Also, it's not an issue that they killed a character. No one is invincible. It's incredibly stupid to believe that just because a character was popular, they can't die. This is hypocritical. Why should the producers appeal to the cheapness of popularity? The videogame dared to be bold, and they did a great job.
1544) Really loved this game! Tense ride of emotion, horror, revenge & redemption . Truly beautiful game, jaw dropping visuals and excellent gameplay.
1545) The best game I played on ps4 what a masterpiece ❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️
1546) Such an incredible narrative only able to be told in this form of media. Please if you own a PS4 and love storytelling in games, don't miss this one. It's one for the ages.
1547) Beautiful game, kept me hooked start to end. Can't understand the low reviews.
1548) Extremely overhated game. I can understand that there were some minor narrative problems but the main issue is that People is angry because the game aint what they wanted and not neccesarily a bad game.
1549) Such a great game! It's basically a continuation of the first game. A second playthrough makes it even better as you get to understand pieces of the game that make more sense once you finish the story.
1550) great game n great graphic also gameplay is so good. I am realy upset death of joel.
1551) The best game...,No, the best art ever.,The best story of karma in the middle of the days of revenge.
1552) The gameplay and graphics alone are enough to justify the purchase. However the game takes a different approach to the story and that fact alone will result in various different opinions. The game will play with your emotions, will tear you apart, make you feel a range of different emotions. Its a very special and fresh type of game we rarely get from the major developers. Its not a game to make you feel good, its a game that will show how awful and beautiful the world of the last of us is. Its main theme is about hatred and the desire for revenge, but also about perspective. If you can go on this journey with a open mind you might  experience a very special story that needed to be told. The graphics are among the best the ps4 ever produced, the gameplay is vastly improved and does everything the first game was lacking in terms of mechanics. The game's pace can drag on in a couple of parts, but overall it's a minor nitpick that does not compromise the experience whatsoever. The sound design is really impressive making the experience really immersive and the music, both original and covers, are subtle and beautifuland sets the tone really well throughout the journey. Overall an experience that cannot be missed for those who want an different type of story and really well made game overall.
1553) I believe this is easily the best PlayStation exclusive game ever made. Possibly the greatest game of all. I’ve played nearly everything the industry has to offer and this story is the most POWERFUL thing I have ever experienced in a game. If you play the first part straight before, it’s truly emotional. The graphics are amazing. The landscape looks SO GOOD in 4K. You could pour dozens of hours in photo mode alone. The fight sequences are smooth and some of the most brutal outside of mortal kombat. Anyone who has played the first game MUST pick this up. There’s a lot of bad press on this one, people are mad the story didn’t go the way “they wanted”. Please do yourself a favor, play the game before you make a judgement. You won’t regret it!
1554) Best game of the decade. I really have nothing else to say. 100000% recommend
1555) One of the best games I've ever played. The gameplay may get tiring at times, but the story overcompensates for it. They managed to do a unique take on the revenge theme and bring something new to the gaming industry. Absolutely loved it.
1556) I thoroughly enjoyed TLOU part 2. The presentation, gameplay, and story were all top class. I truly hope the Devs are not put off by the butt hurt gang, who can't handle a storyline that challenges their sensibilities, and deliver a 3rd installment.
1557) What a beautiful game, man. I’m still thinking about it. Played it till i could barely see straight to get to the end. What a difficult thing PTSD, anger, thoughts of justice and revenge are when you’re just trying to let it go and be happy. All the people that got hurt along the way. I dont think Abby And Lev survived that fight regardless. Giving it a 10 on the fact that ive not played a game thats kept me so emotionally engaged since that first instillment. You guys are the best. Sorry everyone else cant see past their weird shortcomings and small brained excuses why a whole games is ruined by small decisions. Thanks for everything.
1558) Amazing game, graphics, story, gameplay are top notch, if you own a ps4 you should buy it!
1559) An emotionally draining, morally questioning masterpiece. A worthy successor to the original game which joins it as my joint favourite games of all time.
1560) I loved the first game and it was story-wise the best game I have ever played. Well, i had ever played. Part II blew my mind, both for the incredible story and for all the fine details and touches in the gameplay. It surpasses the orginal in almost all aspects. A great experience that in my opinion deserves the highest score. Just do yourself a favor and play it.
1561) Beautiful game with good plot and nice characters. Women looks like women, not like models for jerking
1562) It is an emotional masterpiece, better than expected. The change of the characters and the different views onto the story is incredible.
1563) This game was one of the most detailed games I’ve ever played.,It was enjoyable and it had a great storyline and  I think The ending of the game makes everyone curious about the future series of last of us.
1564) The first and last thing that should be said  about this is, that the sheer ambition on display here sets it apart from anything else. It is a masterpiece that while flawed, is one of the greatest experiences in gaming. If the first one was a good zombie game with a big heart and interesting characters, this one is not that. It's an incredible exercice in empathy that reaches closer to art than games usually dare to go and thus ending close to an  epic  odyssey with a revenge plot to rival, dare I say, Shakespeare(I've a Shakespeare degree, so I'm not saying it lightly) . I've no doubt It will become a benchmark for the future of interactive storytelling. Why? , because it  is a  challenging and complex human story told interactively with some zombie action thrown in secondarily . This might offend some fans, but what is gained in return is a story that is smarter than it has any right to be. Forcing players to feel and think might be its greatest weakness as many of us turn to games as an escape from our existence. A game that not only dares you not to play on but to recognize your own hurt/Id. You must let the game take you where it wants even when you're in disagreement or disbelief, like myself, it's the only way to enjoy the bleakness present in the plot . And as someone who has been through some violence, I can attest to the psychology on display as realistic and valid. If you can't respect the big plot points then remind yourself that one of the things we loved about the original was its uncompromising nature. Games have come a long way from even that game and I hope this marks a shift to even bolder storytelling in the future of aaa gaming.there are some negatives that stand out in the game play, small glitches etc but the presentation alone made me forgive it. The visuals and the character models are top notch. The sound design is amazing. Play it with headphones or a 5.1 or above system. The story could be tighter as it takes a bit to get to certain points, and it could be shorter as a whole. Some of the difficulty spikes seem random and unforgiving but not enough to make me quit. They seem to be better on harder difficulty. Overall a gem of the likes I didn't know could exist in video games period.9. 5
1565) Sadly the world is not mature enough for a controversial, thought provoking game like this. This is a masterpiece and is a shame not been able to experience it for what it is.  Excellent combat, one of the very best actually,  unbeliable world design and deep characters with REAL passions.  Please do yourself a favor and experience this groundbreaking game.
1566) (SPOILERS),,While playing both as Ellie and Abby throughout the game you experience a combination of dynamic game play in an incredibly detailed atmosphere. Both Directors such as Neil Druckman and Halley Gross contributed brilliant provocative writing to the table.,In the Last Of Us world there is no good or bad, your actions receive consequences, I truly love how Neil Druckman portrayed the story of Abby, while you save Ellie from the fireflies in the first game you are given the option to shoot four of the doctors who helped do the operation on Ellie, if you look at the statistics I can only imagine many people shot the doctors, I love how The Last Of Us gives you that sense of choice because there was no need to shoot the doctors because they were all innocent people to the point when it turns out that one of the doctors was Abby’s father. I truly believe that Naughty Dog is trying to contribute something completely different that has never been done before in the history of gaming and I believe that is the concept of humanizing violence. As you play as Abby you interact with her friends and when you play as Ellie you interact with Ellie’s friends. As you play as Ellie you end up killing Abby’s friends who at the time remain anonmyous.,,For both storys Ellie has a quite simple A to B revenge mission while Abby has a slightly more complex yet interesting story that has more less nothing to do with Ellie’s story. As you play as Abby you find out about her suffering with the loss of her father and how she has prepared most of her life to kill Joel and her longterm relationship with Owen and how both Owen, Abby and Manny have fallen out with working for the WLF and how Nicholas Dixon the leader of the WLF has called war on the Seraphites a religious cult group that believe the pandemic is due to sin. As you encounter the main land Abby has potrayed both Nicholas and the WLF by befriending two young former seraphites.,,The first game offers a slightly more simple plot while part 2 brings a slightly more interesting yet diverse dilemma to the table,Naughty Dog have taken the basic gameplay from the first one and brought it to the next level by adding so many difficult yet ingenious features.
1567) Game surprised me in several ways. I loved the experience of this masterpiece. The game speaks of love, revenge, hate, redemption. you feel the drama of the characters and experience each moment until the end.,The game is beautiful, the gameplay is fluid and easy, and fun. worth it.
1568) Brutal, tragic and amazing. Will become one of my favourite games and I don’t really have any complaints.
1569) This is one of the best games in the history of game-making. This game is all about realism. If you're into fairy tales, then this game isn't for you.
1570) Cannot believe how much hate this game is getting. Get a grip. This game is amazing and I can honestly say its my favorite game of all time. Don't listen to all the negative reviews, just get this game and play it, you won't be disappointed
1571) Although I was fully onboard the hate train when I read the story leaks, after completing the game I'm forced to admit how wrong I was. TLOU Part II isn't a totally airtight story, but it's still an incredibly stirring one. People who say this is simply a revenge story are mistaken. The Last of Us Part II is a story of forgiveness. In a lot of ways, it's exactly the story we expected after the first game's ending -- Ellie comes to realize the truth about what happened to the Fireflies, and must cope with Joel's actions on her behalf. Part II is exactly that; a story about Ellie learning to forgive Joel through the sheer brutality she puts herself through. The only twist, is that this forgiveness and understanding of Joel's choice comes posthumously, which only makes it all the more emotional.,,As for the rest of the game... The gameplay is a huge improvement over the first. Everything from the gunplay, the stealth mechanics, and even character movements are vastly improved. Levels are beautiful and sprawling. There are some set pieces here that make the first game seem lame at times. This is of course enhanced by the gorgeous graphics, which may be the best I've seen in any console game, ever. The music too, is a haunting addition to the already dark story.,,It's a game that's going to be misunderstood for a long time, but I've been thinking about it for days now, and to me that's the mark of a masterpiece.
1572) Amazing Gameplay,Deep, well-crafted story,Great graphics,Literally only hated by people that haven’t played the game or wanted to hate it from the beginning.
1573) This is perfectly the story of Eli and Joel.. I hope Eli is happy. Part 3 is already waiting.
1574) If you’re looking for a game that takes no risks and simply adds gameplay hours to the previous title, you may come away disappointed. If, however, you were hoping for a story that builds upon and evolves the narrative in a way that's true to the brutal world these characters inhabit, I think you'll agree that this game delivers some of the best storytelling this medium has to offer.,,The plot expands in this zombie apocalyptic world and tells a beautiful story through using relatable and complex characters. The choices in this game feel very realistic, and Naughty Dog does an excellent job in forcing the player to question the morality of their decisions. Each character has their own perspective of how they came into this cruel reality. When given conflicts amongst one another, we begin to understand a powerful concept in that there are no right and wrong decisions in this game, but a complex plot setup by characters who are trying to survive on their own. There were several times where we start rooting for one character, only to understand the story from a different perspective and disagree completely from the initial character, a sign of compelling story telling.,,There is a lot of backlash amongst players over the journeys of some of the game characters and where the story ended. Unlike many video game stories, Last of Us Part II committed to a reality where actions have consequences. The game does not offer a fairy tell ending but instead prioritizes a plot consistent with its dark and well developed themes. This is where the game truly shines: taking daring and controversial steps that aren’t conventionally found in video games. If there is any hope for the storytelling in video games to meet the quality found in literature or film, these narrative risks need to be celebrated in these rare instances that they are taken.
1575) It is a good game, people do not like it because Joel died, you know how is this new porcelain generation. but games must get reality, heroes can die as well. for me is a great game, it is a game that gives us different feelings you do not who is bad and the good guy
1576) Damn, the best game I've ever played, I don't know why some people say the game is so much negative things, it doesn't matter, is a masterpiece, you feel like Ellie, every feeling she gets, you get it, well, **** amazing.
1577) This game exceeded all my expectations. The atmosphere, the narrative, the gameplay mechanics. Such a well rounded game with a diverse cast and a very telling story on the consequences of revenge
1578) Something that hasn't been here before, so special. The negative reviews come from people who didn't understand or didn't even want to get it.,,The story is just perfect. The character development is unbelievable. Everything happens for a reason. I don't care what others say, I love Abby. The most interesting character in a long time, period.,,I won't even rate the gameplay or graphics, therefore there is nothing to complain about and no other PS4 game does it better. There are tons of things I could praise, but in a nutshell, I am just trying to remember what was the last time a game made me feel how I felt after I finished The Last of Us Part II. Full of emotions, completely empty on the other hand. Ladies and gentleman from Naughty Dog, thank you for this masterpiece and hats off to you!
1579) By far the most immersive 3rd person game I've ever played. Beautiful top notch graphics ,animations and gamplay mechanics. This game truly sets the bar on what should be expected from AAA games. Saying this game is only a 5.5 is ABSURD!!
1580) How could someone rate this game under 10?? This game is a total masterpiece
1581) This game is not about revenge and hatred to another person, its about hatred of yourself and your actions.,Players' reactions were divided into 2 camps: who dont like it because they havent understood mesage from author and the main sense and who liked it from the bottom of their hearts. After Joels death, under the fake hatred for abby, there was hatred for herself, for her 2-year-old attitude towards Joel and for her understatement towards Joel.
1582) I've loved this game, it makes me feel a lot of things, it's a painful game. You can think about every single moment in this really work of art and find deep sadness, cruelty and suffering. It's absolutely worth to play, don't believe the negative rates.
1583) The best game i ever played.Good story and gameplay. But there is one problem Ellie should fall in love with a boy  i think it is better.  mister druckmann need to think about that.
1584) This game is amazing. Heartbreaking story. Yeah, people just want to divide everything on black and white and they need a hero and an evil opponent but life is not like that.
1585) Well made game, many hours spend with it,. I wish another ending but its still good.
1586) This is the best game I've ever played, the story is miles ahead of the current narrative of videogames and elevates the story and the characters to a more human and meaningful level.,Is so much deeper than the first one and questions not only the humanity of the character but also the players.,,if by the end you're not able to come to terms with both character's decisions and if you're not able to forgive them or let go, then you're trapped in the same cycle of hate the game is talking about.,,Bravo!,,A Masterpiece filled with metaphors and brilliant structure that rhymes thematically, the bar is set so high for Naughty dog and other developers, definitely, one to be in the history books.
1587) The best game ever made, fantastic!,Nice history, the game is so immersive and impossible to believe that it's running on PS4
1588) Simply the best game ever! I was not 100% sure if the ND could create Part 2 better then Part 1, but they did. The dialogs, battles, cutscenes, characters, etc. are just "no words". And I'm ready to wait for another 6-8 years for Part 3.
1589) this is best game ever create . gameplay 10/10 location 10/10 and more 10/10 if you really understand the story then you give perfect score . wtf its a drama story . Do not expect to be told a heroic story. In the second half of the game, a concept story is defined for you. Unfortunately, many people do not understand it. FU#K ALL OF YOU :) wait to see it as goty
1590) As we learned from the development team that told us that the Last of us Part ll game will have a story about resentment, we probably have already seen that what the development team says is not only the resentment of Ellie, just people. But it was the story of Abby's resentment, but the story broke on both sides between the vengeance, but I didn't feel good about it.
1591) Best game that I've ever played. Beautiful scenarios, the amount of detail is ridiculously good, and the story, even though it is debatable, was the best part of the game. I've never felt such a will to keep playing. What a masterpiece.
1592) Unlike some of the user reviewers here, I actually played and finished the game, so here is my opinion on The Last of Us Part 2. The Story:,The Last of Us Part 2 continues the story of Joel and Ellie the two protagonists from the previous game, In the last game the story was focused on the relationship of Joel and Ellie, However in Part 2 the story moves away from their relationship and becomes a story centred around lost and revenge. The game also puts you in the perspective of a new character named Abby, who is one of many characters who was wronged by Joel, in the last game Joel made many Harsh or rash decisions in order to protect Ellie. Now a much older Joel and Ellie must bear the consequences of Joel’s past decisions.,My only problem with the story is the pacing, I feel like some moments in the story could have been shortened and straight to the point, but this wasn’t really a big issue for me because most games that are longer than 15 hours usually have a pacing problem. Another thing the game does an amazing job at doing is it’s LGBTQ representation, it is very rare for video game characters to be LGBTQ and it is very rare for those characters to be well written. In the Last of Us Part 2 we are introduced to Dina, a bisexual woman who is in a relationship with Ellie. I myself is bisexual and was so happy to see a bisexual character and in a proper non-straight relationship, there is also a trans character who has an amazing backstory and great character development and no it’s not Abby. The Gameplay:,The Last of us Part 2 takes the gameplay from the previous game and expands it in so many different ways. 1) Stealth, the stealth in this game is honestly it’s best feature because there is so many ways to be stealthy especially with the new prone option, and the stealth takedowns are so cool to watch plus with the new Ai it makes stealth really challenging but fun at the same time. 2) New weapons, the previous weapons from the last game do make a return but there are new and cooler weapons such as: Smgs, Crossbows, and a **** FLAMETHROWER!!! 3) Combat, the combat is way better than the first game, by adding a dodge button it made combat more swift and fun to play. 4) Infected, the Infected are still as vicious as before, but are now more sensible when it comes to sound especially the clickers, the stalkers got a big upgrade with the ability to dodge and counter your attacks, and the bloaters are still as scary as ever. But there are two new Infected; the Shamberlers who are bumpy infected that release a toxic cloud, and the Rat King who is monstrous infected aka big scary ugly boss. 5)  The Levels, the game is broken up into different chapters and mostly takes place in Seattle, however the design of each level changes this makes it so that we do not get bored of being in Seattle we are just exploring a different area of Seattle. 6) Exploration, if you enjoyed the Uncharted series then you will enjoy the vast design of each level, The Last of Us Part 2 encourages exploration for each level which can lead to resources, collectibles, and even easter eggs. 7) Crafting, the crafting is basically the same, but you can now craft new stuff, such as silencers, Inferno shotgun shells, pipe bombs, and more. 8) Parkour, another uncharted element, was the addition of the jump button this brought in more diversity to the gameplay and was not overused. 9) Puzzles, the puzzles in the game has changed from pallets and ladders and instead into rope and power, the new puzzles involve using rope or cables to get to a new area, searching for power by trying to find an electrical source to power a generator, and trying to find or solve the code for safes which are full of resources, the puzzles are not overused and are mostly used for side exploration. 10) Skill Trees, the skill trees unlock perks which basically upgrade your abilities, crafting, and gameplay, you can unlock new skill trees by finding survival manuals which are usually rewarded for exploration or opening a safe. 11) Two playable characters, Ellie and Abby are the new playable characters, each has different skill trees, different weapons, different gameplay, different goals, and different perspectives. Ellie is more stealthy and have faster stealth takedowns, while Abby is stronger in combat her stealth takedowns are slower but she can craft a shiv in order to speed it up. Tech:,The technical development for this game was amazing, The graphics are beautiful and well detailed to the point that you can see the pores on the character’s skin and the emotion on their faces, the lighting is well down and makes every level and scene perfect, the music is beautiful and matches every single scenario with themes of action, sadness, sorrow, pain, and peace. When playing I only had one bug but it was not game breaking or really noticeable. The Last of Us Part 2 was an amazing experience it is so far my Game of the Year. 10/10
1593) The Last of Us Part 2 sets the bar, and it sets it astronomically high. It is best down the best, most beautifully cinematic experience I've ever had gaming and I cannot imagine anything ever topping it. Naughty Dog has gone above and beyond what any modern game developer has ever done and is doing. Yes, its rather upsetting, the decision they made involving a particular character, but beyond that, the story, the characters and character developement, the setting, the gameplay, the atmosphere, music, cutscenes, world design, and so on are just phenomenal beyond belief. The Last of Us 2 exceeds all expectations and even outperforms most movies today. There is so many minor details as well ass detail im general fact during my playthrough I'd often forget that I was playing a game. The fact that Naughty Dog put in all this effort into such a detailed, thrilling experience for just the usual price of $60 is overwhelmingly mind blowing.,Ignore the negative reviews by all the entitled, toxic so called "fans". This game deserves 10s across the board, if not better and YOU NEED TO EXPERIENCE IT!
1594) An absolute masterpiece. Naughty Dog just doesn’t miss. 10/10 100% would recommend. I had spoilers shoved in my face pre launch and even still not even half of the impactful story moments were spoiled. PLAY THIS GAME
1595) The Last of Us Part II was beautifully executed and is in my opinion the masterpiece of the new decade and is one of the best games of the century.,,In terms of graphics, I have never seems something so beautiful in my life and the story is amazing, excited and breathtaking. I was sweating on the edge of my seat the entire time.,,I love the direction that naughty dog has taken. It is bold and progressive and love the fact that nobody is safe and that resonates well in the current pandemic.,,I can't wait for the last of us 3 and see more of Abby.
1596) Any game that can make me care this much about its characters deserves high praise from me. There were parts of the story that had me actively screaming at the characters on my TV as if they could hear me. The ending especially had me crying like an absolute baby. Loved it, would recommend it to anyone.
1597) I enjoyed the gameplay, graphics, music, and story. Maybe some others didn’t, but for me it was very engaging.
1598) I don't understand the hate. This game breaks boundaries in so many ways, in fact I'm ecstatic that it strayed from the first game. They broke the mold. The depth and nuance in this game is on a whole new level. The lead up to the ending was incredible, haven't felt a game tug on my heartstrings like that in a long time. The characters are all complex, even the initial antagonist. I ended up loving her character -- all of my initial impressions of all characters completely changed by the end. Masterful storytelling. Can't recommend it enough. Plus the gameplay is exclennet and graphics are beautiful. Well done, hope there will bea last of us three!
1599) TLOU 2 is the best example of a game that is more than just entertaining, it's a game that makes you think and stays in your memory for a long time. Which is in itself, something that few games in the triple A industry can do. And it is for the same reason that this game has been review-bombed, for the simple fact that only with a playthrough and the hatred we feel for the death of Joel, this game cannot be reviewed. You have to at least play and think for a long time to understand that this game is as good as its predecessor. The graphics, gameplay, soundtrack, and story (when you get it right) put together make TLOU 2 the best game I've played since TLOU 1.
1600) Absolutely stunning graphically. Incredible audio design. Top notch level design. The best voice acting in gaming. The best animation in gaming. This is the complete package. If you enjoy combat, stealth, scavenging,  and sight seeing in a beautifully rendered post apocalyptic world then you are in for a good time. I had zero issues with the story or structure or pacing. I was glued to the edge of my seat for 55 hours. I spent two days trying to play other games afterwards and they just couldn't compare. So I jumped right back in to play at the highest difficulty setting. Easily one of the greatest of all time.
1601) For real, you need to have a lot of maturity to be able to understand what is this game trying to tell. it isnt a game about revenge, put that in your mind. its a apocalyptic world that anyone have a heroic death or is a pyschopath. everyone haves loves and feelings, and you just cant be blind by the hate.
1602) Game with the best story and best plot EVER. peroid. Not for everyone, not everyone will get it the same but the story is AMAZING.
1603) Next to God if War, by far the best story campaign I’ve ever played. Thank you Naughty Dog for such an amazing experience.
1604) Best game in PS4 Thx TLOU 2 for the funny time and I will miss it
1605) This game is the best game i have ever played, its so good as the first one was , even better btw it makes other games look lame and Boring. I really want to be alive when part 3 release, or a dlc so i can return to this world and feel this feelings again. GOTY, haters gonna cry!!
1606) Best game i eve played in 20 years of gaming. A really masterpiece, but it is not for everyone rs
1607) This game had left me speechless.,The music, the graphics, the story(yeah I know how people hate it but too me it's beautiful but with of course the disappointment of (spoiler) Joel's death),The way the stories of Abby and Ellie merge is amazing and the ending is a tear jerker. Definitely recommend this to everyone and don't listen to the haters, at least try for yourself.
1608) The game was amazing from the moment I turned it on, to the moment it ended I was holding my breath and enjoying every little detail about it. don't know why the hate is here because it was an amazing game.
1609) Great storytelling and great gameplay.  I'm a fan of the first part and I want to say that the second part turned out even better.  Thanks Naughty Dog
1610) A great sequel, great experience, really opened up the world they created. The world is brutal and no one is safe, even from themselves. Part 3 please.
1611) I've never played a game that made me feel so much after completing the entire experience. Not all of those feelings were good, and often times it was hard to progress because of emotionally difficult decisions or sheer terror because of the threat of infected. At the end of it all however, it was was well worth it. I believe the writers did an excellent job building the characters and the world they live in, and made me feel for everyone, regardless of what they might have done in the past. I strongly believe this game will be one of the best I've ever played for some time to come.
1612) Best game of the gen by far. This is a masterpiece wherever you see it, excelent graphics, a great gameplay, and one of the best storytellings ever made. Those who did not like the story are haters or nintendo fans.
1613) Of course there will be haters when you are the sequel of the greatest game ever...,This one Even tops the first imho - great gameplay, great story continued, just a masterpiece on all levels
1614) With rdr2 best game of this generation. Mature, brutal and consistent story, jawdropping graphics and animation. It's not ideal but no game is (pace sometimes could be better, some characters motives are debatable) but still it's far above typical aaa game. Masterpiece.
1615) Best game of 2020    efrrfeatgfqtgarggragf
1616) This game turned me inside out.,The first half of the game is amazing, Ellie, all I want to see. But the second part of the game disappointed me at first, it was incredibly boring, but later it became extremely interesting, I even began to empathize with Abby, it was especially interesting to be in the places where Ellie would come later and turn everything upside down. But the ending is like a knife in your back from Neil Drakman, which he turns in your back saying and "That this is what you want to see". Definitely one of the best games of 2020. But also the biggest disappointment of 2020, apart from 2020 itself which is a mistake
1617) The last of us part 2 isn’t what we expected even though it’s a beautiful, emotional and phenomenal experience. When you play the game you really got so into the characters, you really feel things while you playing the game. This game deserve so much respect. No matter if you rather like or not the events of the game, it’s a masterpiece.
1618) solid story with solid graphics and gameplay. i would put it a 8/10 or 9/10 but i feel like because the community deciding it's a 5/10 is waaaayyy too low
1619) I finished the game twice and I can confirm that this is the most beautiful and innovative game ever, I have found sensational emotions and above all new mechanics, the game is very innovative, as gameplay, as history and as experience.
1620) First, I feel a lot of these reviews are negative just because of the LGBT content.  Second, I think people didn't want a sequel, they just wanted to replay the first game.  If you don't have something different to say in a sequel I don't think you should bother just rehashing the same old same old from the first one.  Part 2 has a dark, depressing, brutal plot but there are still quite a few moments of sunlight and wonder in it too.,,The gameplay is awesome, the visuals are great. Cut scenes fold effortlessly, sometime unnoticeably into gameplay. It feels open world though its not, and while it feels like you can wander anywhere, it does a great job of somehow subconsciously steering you along the correct path.  The mechanics of upgrading your weapons are easy and encourage you to search areas you don't necessarily need to if you want to find all the available resources. The AI is spectacular, especially the way different factions communicate with each other, and how they all have different names, discover fallen bodies and send out warnings, etc.   You can get through much of it through stealth alone, though I found myself wanting to kill everything and sometimes just started a gun fight for fun if there were enough resources around.   Its VERY long, and its nice that you can go back and just replay certain chapters if you like, as I definitely had favorite areas I really enjoyed (like the flooded city, the burning village, and the boat rides).,,Anyway, if you're just in it for the story alone, and are REALLY REALLY attached to Ellie and Joel, then you probably won't like this as they are not the same characters from four (game) years ago.  They're still great characters, but you're introduced to a lot of other characters as well and it can get complicated if you just wanted a rehash of part 1. Cause this ain't that at all.  But I thought it was great, and hard hitting, and definitely packs some emotional punch.  It forces you to do things you definitely don't want to do, or feel good about, but I think it still makes for a strong meaningful story, especially given what typically passes for a story line in most games.
1621) Good plot. I assume they involve karma in this game based on the previous one. I enjoy the storyline, how the character develop, and i hope part iii will be better. Recommended!
1622) The original the last of us is one of my favourite games ever made. I am not one of those people who felt it did not need a sequel as the story of the first game had such a perfect ending. I have every faith in Naughty Dog that whatever game they make will be of the utmost quality as they have such an incredible track record. I was right not to be concerned, this game is incredible.,I will not spoil anything here as the less you know the more you will enjoy it. What I will say is that the story is not afraid to take risks and is far better off for it.,But of course this isn't just about the story, it is about the gameplay and everything else in between, it is all top notch. It runs very smoothly, combat encounters are tense and memorable. The kills are brutal and you will often hear screams of agony and enemies calling out names, which adds to the realism and immersion.,It is also very violent, you can almost feel Ellies hatred when she kills people involved in a horrific incident early in the game, I love panning the camera around to Ellie when she is taking down an enemy from behind, you can clearly see the hatred etched on her face.,Some people may disagree with the direction the story takes and some of the actions taken by the lead characters, but I personally feel very pleased with how the story panned out.,Every single environment feels incredibly detailed, I was desperate to explore everything I possibly could, there are plenty of secrets to be found as well as quite a few Easter eggs. This game demands exploration and I genuinely felt saddened when I realise there was something that I missed.,I cannot recommend this game enough, you may have heard people complaining a lot about the story and yes it is divisive, but I think it is much better because of it.,I finished it 2 weeks ago and have not been able to stop thinking about it since.,A must buy!!
1623) Most unique game ever made. True Masterpiece. Raised the standard like no other game ever did
1624) This has been by far my favorite game of all time! The story was so compelling and the way the writers lead you to switch your opinions of the characters, especially Abby was amazing! I played the game twice through back to back and I was so excited once I got to Abby's story for the second time once I had actually come around on the character. I can't believe how many negative reviews I've seen and the amount of people who didn't like the story. It makes me so sad to see such backlash to an amazing and progressive story but with the state of the world right now I'm not super surprised. It seems like more and more bigotry and hatred is coming out every day and my faith in humanity has been diminished all the while. This game is an absolute masterpiece and anyone who doesn't agree hasn't given it a chance to tell the story they so elegantly designed and executed. I'm appaled by anyone who can give this game a negative review. Almost anyone who honestly thinks this game is bad is not the type of person you should keep in your life as all of the hate for the game that I've seen has come from hatred towards the LGBT community and that is unacceptable in this day and age.
1625) Absolutely loved it! The game is visually stunning, runs smooth (even on my original PS4 from 2014) and has an engaging story. The mechanics are similar to the first game but have been expanded upon for greater variety in the gameplay, the map and levels are well designed with plenty of hidden away areas improving replayability, and the combat is absolutely fantastic! Storywise I have no complaints either, although I can understand why some people don't enjoy it as much as I do.,,Because while the first TLOU was by no means a feel-good game, part 2 left me emotionally destroyed. I brutally murder someone while playing as Ellie only to find them likeable while playing as Abby, I have to overcome my initial hatred for Abby when faced with the prospect that Joel, from Abby's POV had it coming, and I have to watch Ellie and Abby, two characters I've become attached to, beat each other senseless. Twice. And on top of that, I have to watch Ellie abandon her family for the sake of revenge, only to realise that she's still no closer to finding peace for herself in the vacuum left by Joel's death. Because while the game definately delivers the message of "revenge bad", it's by far the only message of the game. The Last Of Us Part 2 is a beautifully told story of redemption, vengeance and love setting us up for a Part 3 that I hope will be as enjoyable for everyone else as Part 2 was to me.,,Thank you, Naughty Dog. But plz don't overwork ur employees.
1626) Great game, the best graphics and gameplay.,Not Game of year, the PS4 game!!!!
1627) Absolutely blown away by this game. Ive never been so engaged for 40 hrs in my life since TLOU 1. Outstanding storytelling, brutal nerve racking gameplay, emotional as hell, its got it all. Started a 2nd playthrough and its actually crazy how much you can pick up on things that i hadn't realized i missed on the 1st playthrough that, it actually makes more and more sense the 2nd go round. 10/10 cant wait for what ND does next! thank you for bringing me these 2 masterpieces. TLOU  1&2 will always remain in my heart.
1628) I genuinely loved the story of this game. It's wrenching, and difficult, and challenging, but fundamentally is about people trying to work through difficult emotions in a world that fosters violence but ultimately, doesn't reward violence. Violence is the go-to response but fails to resolve conflicting feelings. It is two stories which are largely separate, but reflect each other's themes of revenge, pain, and how people cope with emotions they can't deal with because the world has gone to hell.,,Either you're into this kind of a rough ride or you're not.,,In terms of technical execution and design, it's nearly flawless. I've encountered a few floating-object bugs, but nothing game breaking. Controls, graphics, interface, and level design are superb.
1629) The characters are whole people. Self contradictory, self centered, dissonant, and motivated to do anything but change.
1630) Don't mind on 0-2 reviews. Those people argue not because of the game - but put their opinion on society problems that are rised in the game.,Game is awesome. Same as first one. I would argue that gameplay itself little bit monotonous, but it can be fixed with difficulty settings.,Plot is great, don't hurry to go through it very fast, if you got bored - make a pause, get back next day, feel the game, characters. And you will get one of the best experiences from the game that can be.
1631) suck the flock, Good music, great visual style. The average gameplay.emotional, well thought out game
1632) This is a piece of masterpiece without a doubt, f*ck haters. I liked the first game slightly more than I liked the second one, but it doesn't make it worse.
1633) Loved this game.  Such an immersive game play and excellent story (as sad as parts of it may be).
1634) Beautiful game. Well preformed Ashely Johnson and Laura Bailey both gave moving and real performances.
1635) This game is single-handedly the greatest piece of media I have ever consumed. Nothing else has torn me so much and given me so many different emotions throughout the experience. There were moments where I hated what I was doing, and that is exactly what the game wanted you to feel. There were moments where I disagreed with the characters, and again, that's what the game wanted. Beautifully designed and worth the wait. Gameplay fantastic and evolved. Story more ambitious than anything currently existing and it does it perfectly.
1636) amazing, everyone should play because it's not just a game but a full experience in your life.
1637) I played this game at launch and might have rated it lower if I had done so when the credits rolled. This game is exquisite to play, the story content, and character development didn't go the way I wanted it to...but I was holding so fast to who the characters were before. This game impacted me more than the first. It broke my heart, but the more I think back on the game, the more I love it. Fingers crossed there's a third in the making.
1638) The story didn’t go how I expected, but I still thoroughly enjoyed it. The graphics are incredible and the gameplay doesn’t lose excitement throughout the 25+ hour campaign. A true masterpiece in my opinion.
1639) changed my life forever. I feel bad for those who just don't get it. it's brilliant and beautiful, thank you.
1640) MOST INSANE GAME EVER, I was in tears when I finished it.,I hope everyone understand the message behind the game
1641) Incredible! Was becoming a murderer. A little bit of humanity is good sometimes. It's good to know from both sides of the story.
1642) A PlayStation must play. Can’t get any better than this. When you finish the game, you started to doubt your own judgments
1643) If you see a low score for this game they did not play the game. This is one of my top 3 games of all time and is amazing in every way possible. The game keeps you on the edge of your seat and the story is incredible  with detail. I really hate that it gets alot of hate because of platform and other things that has nothing to do with those game. You have to play this game for yourself and not listen to anybody that  is pushing a different agenda. Amazing game!
1644) Even though hated by many, The last of Us part II is a masterpiece. The story may be terrible for some, but even these people who criticize the story acknowledge that the gameplay and the graphics are completely amazing. The story is not bad, it's really different from what it was expected, but it's still impressive, it has great characters and a worthy finale.
1645) This game managed to make me empathise with a character that I wholeheartedly loathed for 10 hours or so, eventually I even liked this character. I was engaged and invested at all times. The combat was brutal and on higher difficulties can be very intense due to the scarcity of resources and ammo. The characters are (in my opinion, I know some disagree) well written and some of the flashbacks offered a much needed sense of comfort in an otherwise bleak and dark game. I highly recommend this game and hope you go into it with zero spoilers as I did.
1646) Absolutely stunning game. The gameplay has been upgraded and refined when compared to the first game and it plays extremely smooth. The story is thought provoking, intense and really well written. I enjoyed the game from start to finish. The story may go in unexpected directions but I promise if you stick with it and give it a chance, you will get to play one of the best games of the generation.
1647) I don’t really do reviews but I wanted to make this one because this game is amazing. It’s one of the best games I have ever played. The gameplay is fun and the story is one of the best. This game is a masterpiece
1648) This is just so amazing game that made me cry (good  and bad way) I hope tlou 3 would not come because that was good end to be continued
1649) one of the best games i’ve every played,the story,graphics,gameplay(fluid and never boring) and the maniacal attention to the details,that only naughty dog can do,great job.
1650) If you are reading this ... I'll just give you some advice ... don't listen to negative reviews, they have silly and meaningless biases. Last of us 2 has so far been the best game I've ever gotten my hands on. The story has been developed in an exquisite way and it should be noted that the humanization of the characters has been one of the best works to date. You will experience mixed feelings about the fact that the game makes you stand in the shoes of the others. The graphics, the sound design, the attention to detail of all the environmental elements and the music make for me that "The Last of Us 2" is the game of the decade. (I recommend you experience the game without stupid prejudices and enjoy a masterpiece.)
1651) Just a piece of art!,Bad reviews are from youtube players, people witch didn't even played.,Don't listen anyone just play.
1652) Most soul crushing experience I can imagine. Hell of a story. 10/10 definitely recommend!
1653) People are dumb this game is another masterpiece by Naughty dog. Killing Joel was a thought but worth it decision. Story wise this game is superior to the last. But the first game still holds a higher place in my heart because of the connection between the two main characters, which this game was lacking. But overall most critics are childish. PLAY THIS GAME. Don’t listen to the haters
1654) I played the game with great pleasure, I played the first part, and when I found out that the second part would be released, I bought and played it in one go. I really liked the game, graphics, gameplay, new features and functions - everything turned out very well and of high quality,In my opinion, one thing disappoints - this is the ending, it turned out boring, although I understand that this is the end of the story. Thanks to all
1655) I loved the first one and I loved the second one just as much. They took a lot of creative risks which I appreciate.
1656) This game is fantastic I love it its the best game of Naught Dog if you dont play buy and play
1657) Everything about this game is top-notch. The setting is beautiful, the gameplay is smooth and the plot is emotionally moving. Naughty Dog are masters in their craft.
1658) Don´t listen to the haters. It´s a great game. Amazing combat mechanics and it doesn't get repetitive even though is a long game.
1659) A fantastic game worthy of all of the admiration it has received.  I understand why people were upset with the story, but in my opinion, the Naughty Dog Team made some courageous decisions to deliver a POWERFUL story. The game is a little bit overfull, but I'd hate to complain about a company adding in extra value when that's what a lot of games need more of. The characters were brilliant and the lessons and mirrors set up in every story line felt like a Dickens novel rather than a simple video game. I would love a little more positivity in a follow up though!
1660) Overall, I was deeply moved by the game. It is profoundly emotional and real within the story line, cinematic cuts, characters, graphics, details. Loved the dialogues a lot, they were so natural and specific. Not just boring talks, but very human-like, peculiar. Body movements and facial expressions are attentively built. Locations.,My favourite characters are Dina and Ellie, partially bcs I am a gay woman myself and the depiction of their relationship was very tender and caring, not vulgar, as it can be often shown in media and massmarket  content.,The game is criticised for this kind of ending, but I believe this is one of the best one. It is not trivial. It doesn't have to be liked, nor to be agreed with. It is as it is. Revenge doesn't have to be finalized with a murder, but it's about the emotional release, that Ellie had experienced. Human nature is not linear and predictable.,There is on open ending. We can come up with our version. I would choose the one where Ellie comes back to Dina and they hug firmly and live happily. That's it.,To sum up - it is a masterpiece, a novel in a game form. Deeply sensual, irritating in the best ways, thoughts provoking, philosophical.,Thanks for it.
1661) This is something that will be remembered for years to come in our beloved industry; yes it was a divisive one but that does not make it any less of a masterpiece;,The Incredibly realised characters is not easily done compared to an already classic hit that The Last of Us was, whether or not you should get this game is not up for debate cause if there’s only one game in the first half of 2020(not a pleasant one) that needs to be played is this work of art.
1662) I keep it simple with this review: This is probably the best game ever created.
1663) Masterpiece. Of course graphics are unbelievable, better than 99,9% of games on PC, the gameplay is so enjoyable, I would very much love a secondary mode to fight against IA without story, just to play with this nice gameplay (I hope the multiplayer mode soon). And of course the story is so well built.,Good job Naughty Dog ! (See you next Uncharted ?)
1664) The Last of Us Part II is a masterpiece and a truly important work of art that is well worth the 27 or so hours it will take you to complete it. So, it is very sad that this game got review-bombed to hell due to leaks that ranged from either totally false, misleading, and/or out of context. Many of these negative reviews were put up within hours of the game being released when it should have taken well over a day (without food or pee breaks) to even complete the game, let alone contemplate it enough to write a review. However, if you are still considering playing this game, don't let the negative user reviews mislead you. Understand that TLOU 2 is a dark and mature piece of fiction, but give it a chance. I'm not joking when I say I think this game is a masterpiece.,,The gameplay doesn't change up a whole lot from what already worked in the original game, but it still adds some welcome new mechanics that give the player more freedom and choices. In addition, Naughty Dog has included a plethora of accessibility options so that pretty much anyone can enjoy the game. They've also put a technical marvel on display here! From the graphical fidelity, the motion capture, the incredible animation and acting, the riveting musical score, those hilariously realistic rope physics, and the terrific sound mixing, TLOU 2 does it all better than any previous Naughty Dog game. Actually, it does that all better than any game I've ever played! Not to mention it does it all at a very stable 30fps at 1080p or 1440p depending on your console.,,The sense of atmosphere is also an incredible feat. In fact, there are many moments where the sense of dread and anxiety might be overwhelming for those not accustomed to such intense games. TLOU 2 mostly takes place in a harsh cordycep-infested Seattle, where most of the residents have only survived as long as they have by being ruthless and cruel, and for you to survive, this game will require you to be the same. These residents of Seattle have divided into factions and appear to be locked in an endless cycle of violence with one another. While not everyone within is ruthless and cruel, the ones that are often have more than enough determination and resources to do as they please, regardless of the consequences.,,The pacing and editing here is also master-class and unique. There are a number of flashback sequences this game has to juggle, and each sequence involves different perspectives, characters, and years. Yet, each flashback arrives at the perfect moment in the story and avoids the pitfall of becoming messy and confusing.  With each flashback, a new layer of the story will peel back and earlier story beats may now make more sense or have new depth added to them.,,With all that said, let's talk about the story, the source of all the vitriol and controversy. In my opinion, the story here is vastly superior to the already excellent story of the original TLOU. It has more emotional impact, the characters have more depth, and the stakes are much higher and more personal. TLOU 2 is presented as a revenge story and while revenge is important since it is the fuel that drives our characters (to some seriously dark and disturbing places, I might add), it is reductive to claim the story is nothing more than: "Revenge Bad". TLOU 2 actually tackles many complicated themes such as love, grief, forgiveness, tribalism, individuality, humanity, and obsession. As I said earlier, the story is also edited in a very unique and interesting way that I believe only a video game could succeed at. Suffice it to say, the story will have you actively engaged and you will find yourself pushing forward, eager to learn more.,,Well, for most of you anyways, and that's the true tragedy of all this. This game is releasing in one of the most divisive and toxic times in recent history. TLOU 2 includes powerful female leads and LGBTQ+ characters in its story and for some bigots that proved unacceptable. The most generous and forgiving explanation I have to explain the rest of the backlash is that the story simply wasn't what some people wanted. However, to say this game has a "bad story" is simply wrong. Objectively, the story of TLOU 2 is quite brilliant! Naughty Dog took much bigger risks here and they clearly had their minds made up on what kind of story they wanted to tell, and in my opinion they delivered. Yes, the story broke my heart at times and made me cry, but it also made me smile and laugh and instilled a sense of hope. I honestly couldn't tell you the last time a game affected me so! Sure, the story is dark and intense and that won't be to everyone's liking, and it may not be to yours, but after finishing it, you cannot say it was told poorly. I loved The Last of Us and I loved its sequel. If you played the first game and loved it, as long as you approach the sequel with an open mind, I'm sure you'll love it too.
1665) I enjoyed every moment of this amazing game. I loved the gameplay and the story.
1666) The Last of Us part 2 is not the game we deserved but the game we needed!,,This is not a typical blockbuster adventure game like the previous part was. The first part was really good, but the second part just went completely on a different level. If you can't deal with some "facts" then you are simply not ready for this game.,,Character animations, dialogues, cutscenes, story, emotions, actors play, graphic, environment design, sound design - this game is just so well put together. At the moment, no other game can offer what TLOU2 does. TLOU2 finally brought the experience I had been waiting for years in the gaming industry. I am full of admiration that they had enough courage to create something like that.,,Easy 10/10 - people only need time to appreciate what ND did. Other piece of works, such as the heart of darkness or apocalypse now, were initially criticized by audiences or/and critics, and are now considered masterpieces. I feel like the same will happen with TLOU2.
1667) This game, Last Of Us Part 2, is my 4th Place All Time Favorite game, I Love the Revenge Storyline, I Love the Climax of the Ending, the message of the game of "Madness Of Revenge Especially When You Can Lose Everything In The End," is what I got from this game...The whole gay, lesbian, transsexual Talk Crap in the game was just a Distraction to the Overall Message of "Revenge is Madness," that the Developers could of/should of just left the Sexual Woke Crap out of the game....but I understand we live in a Woke Social Justice Society Today....I think the consternations that people have is that unless that person has deep seeded revenge on their mind then they really don't understand why Ellie/Abby was so hell bent on murder, that a normal person cant understand why they would have those deep seeded feelings themselves....The Last Of Us Part 2 is GAME OF THE YEAR 2020!!!!! GOTY
1668) Great Work, Naughty Dog! That's just a Masterpiece! Can't wait for TLOF3! Thank you.
1669) good game the first part 7 times and the second 3 I do not understand the score of 0
1670) That game touch my feelings the story is perfect match to the part one and we see the story thats is very realistic and Graphics of game is beyond  anything I love story at the end it broke my heart but I love play it agin because I love that story and it was perfect experience
1671) Best game to have ever come out.,,I Love this game so much it well and truly the best game ever,,Thank you Naughty Dog!
1672) Fantastic game. Story, game-play, tension during fights, graphics, characters etc. I love it and does not deserve all that hate. I am huge PlayStation fan but I am not positive with a game if it is bad, would be hypocrisy of me. So I recommended!,PS: I liked that they come up with something different, something that nobody would expect. I like this in every franchise.
1673) Very good game. A masterpiece in storytelling, but very "politically correct" too.
1674) Very good game f* the crybabies who don' know how to appreciate a story line
1675) Phenomenal game! Kudos to Naughty Dog on building on an already great part 1. The detail put into this game has made it worth the wait. The only thing I will say to players about to jump in, is not to go in wanting certain things to happen. Instead start with an open mind and take the story as it comes and for what it is.. Too many people have given this a b bad rating because they wanted the story to play out differently. Basically theyre whinny little brats that have gotten used to superhero/fairytale endings. In terms of gameplay there is very little to complain about. A well crafted modern day masterpiece.
1676) This is the good game........ I can say sow much about this game. This is the perfect continuation, I have no words
1677) An absolutely beautiful, sad, thought provoking and riveting game.,It’s daring, unafraid of eschewing a safe narrative that would’ve cashed in on the emotional heft of the first game. The game made me consider that the idea of good/bad, right/wrong is often simply a product of perspective. It also looked at revenge and its ultimate futility and inability to fulfill or set right. The game is also about mercy, small or as large as they may be.,I loved the new characters introduced, and enjoyed that the new playable character Abby had a different set of skills and strengths than Ellie. Playing Ellie as a ninja, relying on stealth to then play as Abby and not be afraid to get into a heads up fight was really interesting.,Overall, the gameplay felt so good, and almost like what I would’ve wanted out of a more focused and story driven MGS5. I also liked the flirtation with some open world elements and could’ve even went for more of it, but this is a Naughtydog story based affair, so the linearity made sense.,This game just worked for me on every level, and exceeded my expectations. I’m very glad I avoided the leaks and went in only peripherally aware that a controversy existed.,The pacing at times felt slightly off, probably my biggest gripe. And some moments were downright painful or punishing but to me the game’s ability to make me go to those places was satisfying to me. It may not be for everyone, but it was definitely for me.
1678) A very moving game. The differing point of view was challenging at first... But it should be. These characters aren't inherently good. They aren't inherently evil. They are in a brutal world, and make the best choices they can (complete with their flawed humanity). That all said, I was willing Ellie to make better choices (and I do wish the game could allow me to), and I was willing the alternative character to do so as well. But I came to understand where they were coming from, and it moved me. And isn't that the point of good art?
1679) I loved it I know a lot of people didn’t because of the ending with Abby getting spared but all I wanted was to at least lay a hand on her not kill her the game was amazing I loved the gameplay the story weapons and new crafting all of it was a blast and I really loved.
1680) the best game of all times, the graphic, the moves, the history are 10 points
1681) Don't care what you say....greateset game ever made. Story, character development, gameplay, graphics....everything. This game made me feel every emotion - Anger, joy, sadness, empathy....like a good piece of entertainment should. Well done Naughty Dog, you have outdone yourselves.
1682) greateset game ever made. Story, character development, gameplay What a ride
1683) The first game in my entire life that make me cry. Its a masterpiece the best of the generation
1684) Best game of the year 12/10 1) Amazing gameplay
1685) The game doesn't remain in its comfort zone and takes huge risks,,Which work for some and don't work for the others.,I enjoyed the game but both opinions should be respected.
1686) Part II delves deeper into the gorgeous and brutal world these characters are in. Playing through this game I experienced every emotion. These characters go through hell and back and somehow keep fighting. It’s an incredible piece of art that will have fans talking and debating. This is a must play. A masterpiece.
1687) This is my first ever review here, although I played many games in my life. The reason I'm writing it is because I think this game received a lot of undeserved negative reviews... From insecure people who can try and grow over themselves to see a bigger (and brighter) picture.,,I understand that for many players the first part became the beloved game of the decade, creating high expectations for the Part II. But listen me out...,,Ellie. There were obvious clues in the first game that Ellie was homosexual and I'm not even talking about the kiss itself. Remember how awkwardly she tossed the adult magazine out of the car window? If you are disappointed by her being gay despite the beauty of the game and its compelling and complex narrative, go read some books, schedule a visit to a psychotherapist or other mental health professional. Discuss it with him/her. Before you grow old and become your racist homophobic uncle.,,Joel. You are disappointed that Joe is dead? I get it. But that's because you watched too many marvel movies. How many people (and infected) did he kill in the first game? He survived all of those encounters. He even survived a major injury which I find hard to believe but nonetheless he survived against all odds. That's more unbelievable than what actually happened to him in the beginning of the Part II.,,Abby. Her story shows us that she has higher ethical standards than our stubborn protagonist Ellie. She sparred Ellie's life twice and despite that Ellie returned to kill her, losing (once again) her new family — Dina and JJ... As well as her little and ring fingers and thus her ability to play guitar, which reminded her of Joel.,,This is a beautiful game with engaging mechanics and complex characters. We can witness the consequences of their decisions and take a note to become better versions of ourselves.
1688) Polarizing? Yes. But still a master class in story telling. The guys at ND have knocked it out of the park with another emotional example of the world where art meets technology. I didn't like some of the outcomes. But I actually understand the complex differences of perception. We see both sides of the story told beautifully from both perspectives. Plus technically, this is the summit of current gen hardware. Cannot see anything topping this for a few years. Even wit next gen right around the corner.
1689) I’ve never played a game like this. It challenged my preconceptions and made me really think about human nature, grief, and loss. Amazing.  And the gameplay was great.
1690) Most negative comments come from two types of people : those who haven't finished the game and those who have never done the DLC of 1 and criticize the gameplay or the story when in reality, they are just too much homophobic to be able to appreciate this masterpiece at its true value. Thanks Naughty Dog for this unbelievable experience!,La plupart des commentaires négatifs viennent de deux type de personnes : ceux qui n’ont pas fini le jeu et ceux qui n’ont jamais fais le DLC du 1 et critiquent le gameplay ou l’histoire alors qu’en réalité, ils sont simplement trop homophobes pour pouvoir apprécier ce chef-d’œuvre à sa juste valeur. Merci Naughty Dog pour cette expérience inoubliable!
1691) I’ve wait five years for this game and what can I say... It worth it a lot. They improved what worked at the first game and add more. The movements, the facial expression (not only during the cut scenes), and a lot of other things. The caracther growth is amazing (I don’t even think some of the people who "played" this game understand what that means) and the plot is consistent, nothing that happens is in vain.,,Summing up, just like the first one, this game makes me feel a lot and I coundn’t be prouder. And seeing that apparently everyone who decided to leave their opinion written here on this site only has bad things to say, here is my big thanks to naugthy dog ​​for giving me the privilege of playing this game before so I don’t have to buy a ps5 as soon as possible haha ​​and for feeding my soul with this amazing game!!
1692) After thinking about this game for weeks upon weeks, I can confidently say that I adore The Last of Us Part II, the gameplay is fantastic, the graphics are the best I've ever seen, the music is incredible and the story, at least the way I interpret it, is amazing. Considering how many people share their opinion on the internet, I'm probably in the minority when I say this, but I can easily give The Last of Us Part II a 10/10.
1693) I'm torn, Last of us Part I has always been my favorite video game of all time, and I have been eagerly anticipating playing Part II. After completing Part II this weekend, it's now my new favorite video game. Part II picks up perfectly from where part I left off and takes you on a journey with twists and turns and introduces new characters who help fill the gaps from Part I and add new and unique storylines that evolve. The gameplay is excellent, the art is beautiful, and the story is world-class. Fingers crossed that Naughty Dog does not take another 7 years to make part III and complete the trilogy.
1694) It was an awesome game, story and graphics are just incredible. Not all games must have a happy ending, stop throwing sh*t on this game.
1695) I thoroughly enjoyed the journey this game took me on, subverting m expectations and shifting my perceptions and perspective constantly. It challenges so many stereotypes of not only the gaming industry but society itself with its brilliantly written representation within loveable and complex characters. The game encourages you to constantly think through your perspective and leaves you with so many thoughts and while the gameplay is incredibly fun, the emotional rollercoaster it takes you on is not overshadowed. It looks stunning, the gameplay is complex and the story is well written and serves as great conversation starters as each player will interpret the game and its meaning differently.
1696) I loved the gameplay and the score and other aspects of the game. The most polarising part was the plot. I wish Joel’s death was handled better but I guess I am fine with it. But I loved Ellie’s revenge quest. Also, I loved Abby’s parts and I eventually began to like her. Their stories are very similar and you can see the parallels between them in the end. I hope we see more of Abby and Lev.
1697) Technically marvelous, visually genre-defying and emotionally hard-hitting, The Last of Us Part II is one of the best video game sequels of all time and manages to surpass its predecessor in every sense. You will not be the same player or even person after going through this ride.
1698) One of the best games i have ever played. To rate it this low because you dont belive in the story makes no sense. There Can be no argument this is still a great story, gripping and tense. And the fact that ii can cause outrage like this just proves it’s a 10. They made all of you feel something. That is what gaming is about, even if That feeling is anger or sadness.
1699) Absolutely marvelous. You've done it again Naughty Dog. Truly a masterpiece!
1700) They're a few things that are of undeniable quality that seem to be lost in all the divisiveness of the story. This game is best in class when it comes to graphics, performance capture, and action set-piece moments. The environmental detail, sound, music, and animations are unbelievable. This game is also solid gameplay-wise and exceeded my expectations. You will die a lot, but because the scenarios play out differently and you have so much agency to try different things, it was not an issue. Thankfully checkpoints and loading are handled well. The game is not too long, IMO. The scenarios are different enough to not feel like anything is repeated. Do not rush the game. Take your time and take a break. The game is brutal and intense. The story does jump back in time, so you may want to see what is next instead. Be patient, it is worth the wait. I want to replay in new game + to have all the guns and upgrades. Something I never considered for LofUs. The argument is understandable that the first game has a better story. This game still impacted me emotionally by great performances as much as the first, while bringing the unforgettable music more to the forefront. Understand these characters are flawed and give in to the story they are telling. This is not an RPG. Regardless of how you feel about the narrative, this game is better in every other way.,,HERE ARE MY RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PLAYING THE GAME. In settings, set supplies to auto-pickup and also consider enabling pointing you to the next objective by clicking the left stick. This is a resource game, so load all your weapons and have those at the ready before entering an encounter. It is like Witcher in that regard. Prepare and use everything at your disposal. If you are spotted that is okay. Improvisation in fights is what makes this game shine. Use the whole environment. You have a large space to work with, always be moving. If you have too much of a resource, craft item(s) immediately so you can pick up everything. Set auto-aim assist before knocking difficulty down to easy. But, I am kind of a bad shot. :-)
1701) People may complain about the subject, but the gameplay and storyteling is simply amazing!!
1702) Not for everyone. But I really liked it very much. It is obvious that a lot of craftmanship and artistry is put in the experience without choosing the easy way.
1703) This game is hugely misunderstood due to not understanding that perspective changes the way one thinks about a person.
1704) This game is a masterpiece, an art. You can see how everyone has their own opinion about this game. It is undoubtedly magnificent in its own way. How they manipulate people’s feelings and thoughts is outstanding. This is a game for mature and open minded people. It is not a closed boxed storytelling where you get to expect and feel what is right for your hands.,,This is how the game divides gamers. This game shows a very deep and dark story making where  people hate it because of the expectations that has been put into the game’s shoulder. Many people were expecting a sequel where both the protagonist Ellie and Joel continues a journey concluding to the closure of their dilemma on the first game. The game was bold enough to change it’s path from having a story of bonding and connection into shattered hope. The story was told into a setting where not everyone could/would appreciate it. The story gives different messages to the players on how they would  take the game. Many says that this is a manipulative story but in my case it is... but also it is not. And that is the beauty of it. In my perspective, many games al throughout the generations were more manipulative that they ONLY subject you to feel happiness, fun and laughter. This Last of Us 2 however, still manipulates you but in a way that you may feel different from the conventional where you can feel fear, rage, anger,  and feeling of revenge. BUT it can also manipulate you to the feeling of sadness and sympathy, or even contentment in some cases. Here we can really identify people who can really appreciate art from those who cannot.,,Many people say that many of the decisions made in the game was so unrealistic. For me, I disagree. This game tries to portray real life humans. Yes HUMANS. Humans are not perfect, sometimes decisions are very vague and misunderstood. Unrealistic storytelling for me are decisions that always make sense, decisions that are always perfect. We can say humans portrayed in this game is perfectly imperfect.,,Some issues to be tackled in the story of the game is the Tragic event that happened to the protagonist. It is really a heartbreaking scene. It really does get you to feel like stopping the game for some reasons. You may feel various types of emotions up until you progress.  Many would say that playing a certain role in this game makes you irritated, puke or unsatisfied. Many would feel unfairness not only in the story but also in the gameplay. This is totally understandable feeling yet effective cause i think, the game made you feel  what it is supposed to be felt. Life is not fair in all levels where they have perfectly shown us in this game. We as the players have to deal with this.,,This game was rated 10/10 for me not only that it has a topnotch graphics, game design and gameplay which is perfectly lifted from the previous game with few enhancements , but also because the story is phenomenal, unconventional and tragic. Tragedy is a form of a story used by novelists all over the world. To introduce this in a mass spectrum audience, specifically to the gamers community is a bold move. However, in my opinion they gave us an outstanding piece of art. Which will only be enjoyed and appreciated by limited open minded mature people who knows good art and story telling.
1705) Not perfect of course (as no game is), but i can say. When i finished this game, I had that feeling that you don't know what to do with your life after. Have not had that feeling from a game in a long time. At first, I was upset from the leaks. I thought the game would be awful but im glad I had enough faith in naughty dog to play it. When I first played as Abby, I disliked her so much. But, she really grew on me as the game progressed and honestly, I liked her character a little more than ellie and im extremely glad she doesnt die in the end. Aside from the amazing story, the scenery is just gorgeous. One of the best looking games I've seen (and I dont even have a ps4 pro). Although, the ending i felt was a bit short, itd be nice if it showed what happened to Abby and let, if they reached the fireflies. And where ellie is going to go now that she has nothing and no one left. Just such an amazing game. I really gope they release a 3rd one on ps5 that has more of ellie (not as the main characters though) it would actually be nice seeing abby as the main character and having her and ellie come to terms with each other. Or at least knowing what happens to ellie through documents or word of mouth. But i think ellies story has been told and in a third game it would be nice to see someone else carrying the torch
1706) A masterpiece. Ignore all of the bigoted, transphobic, sexist, homophobic noise. Just play the game. It is a marvel of story telling. the simple fact so many were devastated by the loss of a character in the first act is the perfect indication of the scope of story telling Naughty Dog has undertaken.,to create something as powerful, of characters so many care for so deeply.
1707) Really quick I just want to say don’t play this game if you’re homophobic Ellie is I’m a relationship with a female but it’s not stated what her sexuality is. I’ve play for about 6-7 hours and I have a few complaints 1. Listen mode, it sucks it’s not as easy to see people as it was in The Last of Us part 1 but it’s useful, 2. When you arrive in Seattle you use a map which at first is a little annoying but you’ll get used to it (you only use for about an hour or so), 3. The clickers, the can somehow spot you even if you’re not moving and that can be annoying at times. Let’s talk about the things I like, 1. The story, it’s starts off kinda boring but once a major event happens it starts to pick up, 2. The crafting system, while it’s not what I’m used too it still does it’s job, 3. The enemies, instead of your normal clickers, runners, and bloaters there’s also shambles and stalkers the two new zombie types are really fun and it adds a bit more of a challenge. In the game you’re introduced to two new factions the WLF (Washington Liberation Front) and the scars, the WLF is like the military and can be very challenging at times and the scars they’re not bad I just came across them not too long ago but they were easy to kill. If you’re cautious about buying this game I highly recommend it I've played a lot of games with good stories and this one is the second best. It’s a great game and I think you’ll enjoy spending time with the character (Ellie) that you grew to love in The Last of Us part 1.
1708) The negative reviews of this game can only be disingenuous. Just because you don't like a story line or the themes explored, cannot warrant you giving the game ridiculously low scores. For me, when a game leaves you with such emotions, such as a great movie does, it must speak volumes to its quality. Only three other games have ever made me feel like this game. GTA IV, The last of us & God of War (2018). The last of us Part II deservedly enjoys its masterpiece accolade bestowed by so many critics. Well done Naughty Dog!
1709) My review is.. One of the best games ever made.. Thank U Naughty Dog, for one more masterpiece..
1710) One of my favorite experiences of this entire generation of games. Takes all of the most interesting elements and decisions of the first and builds on and gives them consequences and weight. Excellent gameplay and set pieces combined with an interesting and harrowing story.,Definitely a game worth experiencing for yourself!
1711) Doesn't deserve the flak it got.,Why people didn't like it and my refute:,,-"Ellie changed too much". Who has the same personality when they were 14 as they did when they were 19, not accounting for trauma and PTSD and what that does to a person (and puberty).,-"The Death of _____ was done in a poor/un-heroic manner". The truth hurts and so does reality. This game was meant to be a Grimm parallel to if this was reality.  Nobody is immune to death and that's what makes it great. The early death in this game prepares you and gives you that underlying feeling that anyone could die at any moment. There are no beloved protagonists in reality and nobody is immune to dying in the most stupid ways possible. If I was in the apocalypse I would probably make it to day 50 before ripping off a hangnail and dying of blood-loss or something ridiculously stupid like that (I know it's not really possible, it's an analogy), and that's reality.,- The Story sucks. This is the most widespread criticism and one that I can't refute nor confirm. After playing through the game twice, I honestly loved the story. There are flaws as with any game but liking or hating the story is a matter of opinion. I, like most, hated Abby with every fiber of my being- even after playing her for a few hours! It wasn't until the end of Abby's playthrough that I realized I actually started to empathize with her which brings and inner-conflict to the player that I can appreciate.,- "SJWs agenda/Ellie is gay so the game is bad". Get over yourselves.
1712) Super game! Dont listing anybody! Just play, its awesome! First is great and its too
1713) I absolutely LOVED this game! I laughed at times, I was shocked at times, I cried at times. I was invested in this game wholeheartedly with the characters, the gameplay, the environment and the story. One of the best experiences i've had playing a game. This game and the first are Masterpieces in my eyes.
1714) Masterpiece. Best game of the generation next to Witcher 3. Better than the first game. The gameplay, story, music and enviroment are among the best I have played.
1715) This game is a masterpiece... It bought out some complex emotions within me that i never felt a video game could achieve... Amazing yet intriguing and deliberately divisive story... A techincal marvel and so on... Like i said a 10/10 masterpiece!
1716) Great game,this Graphics, Sound and unique story. Another masterpiece by Naughty Dog.,In my opinion, better than the previous one.
1717) I'm going to dive right into this. I LOVED THIS GAME!!! It made me feel responsible for once! most games I kill blindly and without remorse as there is no real emotional connection between you and the npc's. When you kill an NPC and another finds their body or sees them get shot there usually a cry out of pain and possibly a name relating to the seemingly real life you as the player just snuffed out. I know a lot of negative reviews seem to focus on the fact that you don't agree with what Ellie is doing in this game. I think that this is the point. The game finally makes you feel bad for killing. I often times found myself stealth a lot more, to avoid killing NPC's. Unpopular opinion...I prefer the sequel to the first game. I love the aspect of walking a mile in another persons shoe's aspect. I love the love triangles, I love the artistic way they show comparisons between Ellie and Abby, I love the fact that they don't focus on Ellie being a lesbian as it should just be a normal thing, I love the real fear that a character you love might just die at any moment. The list goes on. 10 outta 10 would recommend!
1718) Absolutely stunning. The narrative is anything but safe, playing with expectations and emotions with a masterful grace. Some people don't like the story, but I found it to be one of the best I've ever experienced in a video game, far surpassing the first game. Plus, not only was the story incredible, but the gameplay, visuals, and music are masterpieces in and of themselves. Loved it, I can only hope that Naughty Dog continues to put out games of such quality.
1719) I never played the first part and I think that was a mistake. The Last of US Part II catched me like no other game before. The graphics are gorgeous and the music and effects are on place. The story hooked me like no game before.
1720) Great game over all , has everything you want from a zombie game plus more , i didnt see the story going the way it did but , I'm very pleased with the ending. Don't spoiled it on your self and look at the ending on YouTube...just play the game you'll thank me later , the game it self is long but well worth every minute and penny .
1721) This game is controversial. But its a lie to say this is not a great game.,I adore this game, it has pushed the boundary of an interactive media storytelling. It is one of those pieces that you will look back after few years and say to yourself "yea this was special"
1722) Just finished the game and loved it. Found the second half of the game to be awesome. Thank you Naughty Dog.
1723) One of the best games of this generation, i can't see a single flow with it, and sure some story decisions are a little too much but in the grand scheme of things it all makes sense.
1724) It's not right to review-bomb a game that you haven't even spent some time in or given a chance. I watched TheRadBrad play the whole thing through and while yes, there were certainly... unexpected moments, the game as a unified whole is nothing short of a masterpiece--linear storytelling perfected. If you haven't gotten around to playing or watching it yet, I highly recommend that you do.
1725) Thank you Naughty Dog for amazing and incredible video game.  This is so emotional adventure. Thank U! Thank U and Thank U! From Russia with love!
1726) Nothing like we have seen before. It is not always as simple as right or wrong, sometimes it is way more beyond that. Each side have it's own story line and we see how each character evolve. The gameplay and graphics are awesome. The soundtracks are insane. All in all, a master of a piece.
1727) Stunning game, excellent storytelling that builds upon the unforgiving apocalypse. Top notch gameplay for its genre. Another masterpiece by Naughty Dog
1728) The most controversial game in the most beloved franchise got a lot of people hates it for stupid reasons and many those who love it, with the right reasons and true understanding of the intention of the developers. Which side you stand on defines you, not the game itself.
1729) Bold storytelling. It really comes together by the time the credits roll. The fact that most people are complaining about the story and not the gameplay shows just how good the storytelling is. This will be hailed as a classic and is a prime contender for best game of the year!
1730) The Last of Us 2 was an amazing game from start to finish. Ignore the trolls.
1731) This is Amazing Game
1732) The game is exciting and innovative from every aspect of it. From visuals, to sound and game play. Is a total masterpiece, you can dislike the story, but you can't admit that the game feels so real when playing, and that is what it makes it the best game of 2020.
1733) Amazing game! I loved it, made me question myself. Helped me with some real life issues I am currently going through. Couldn’t have come out at a better time for me!
1734) Don't listen to the haters. Definitely one of the best, if not THE best game ever made. That's subjective though. What's not subjective is that it's definitely the most inclusive and accessible game ever made. And I think that's excellent! I also thought the story was excellent. The way that it's forces you to shift perspectives and gain empathy for characters who are normally more one dimensional is pretty genius. That and the very grim, in-your-face depiction of cycles of vengeance and brutality at it's most mf'ing brutal (You're supposed to feel that way btw. It's emotional manipulation, like all entertainment.) I think if you liked the first game you'll like this. It's more of the same...uh...mostly. Way more intense and creeped me out thoroughly at some points. So so good!
1735) When I got the game I didn’t even play part 1 yet. And let me tell u. This was a great game.!! I did go back and play part 1 because kinda felt like I was missing something. But if I had two choose. Part 2 was way better.. the battles. The people. Abby. Play the game first before u judge. Great game. And I hope a part 3 comes out.
1736) As someone who actually played the entire game, 10/10. The story is probably the most emotionally complex story I've ever played in a game. The gameplay is fun, the scenes are beautiful, and the music just adds to it all. Playing it again currently!
1737) Really an 8.5 to 9 but giving it a 10 because people are dumb. The story’s good. Idk why people claim it’s propaganda.
1738) Wonderful game that makes you think about many things, as we have to see things from both sides, shows that revenge will not always resolve
1739) To try and put my feelings to words regarding The Last of Us Part II is no easy task. This story is a hard pill to swallow as it is one that comes bearing down on you and your left trying to pick up the pieces of your soul. I'm blown away at what Naughty Dog has done here. There were moments where you were forced to do things you didn't want to do. Then there were some of the best performed moments that take your breath away. I can not argue with all the (industry) critics rating this game a 5/5 or 10/10.,To the people who jumped on the bandwagon bad mouthing this game since the leaks came out: Put aside all your biased opinions and play this game with an open mind.
1740) I just hope that Neil Druckmann will define the success of the game not by local estimates, but by sales.  And all this nonsense will not affect him, and he will continue to create the games like this one. Best game I've played in years. Neil, just do it. Sorry my bad English, but l know you understand that i try to say.
1741) (Barely a review, it's more like a review of some negative reviews i've read),This game is a masterpiece in storytelling. A winning achievement for gaming, this is a story that couldn't be told as effectively any other medium. When i say masterpiece i don't imply that this isn't a game without faults, but in my experience, i'm yet to find a game that i can't find faults in. Even in games others consider masterpieces. Unfortunately, the controversy surrounding the game clouded an experience that had to be played without any sort of bias. The hate for the game dates back before any of the leaks had occurred. My theory regarding the reason for this i prefer not to discuss. The bottom line is that people were making dumb arguments before the game had come out, and soon the consensus became "bad game". It certainly didn't help that some people misremember/misinterpret the ending of the first one. They think that Joel is a good person that deserved nothing but the best, when the game makes it clear that Joel was a broken selfish man that admitted to murdering innocents for personal gain in the past.  They try to justify his actions at the end, when Ellie herself condemns him for disrespecting her only dream in life. In short, it was never about Ellie, it was that he wasn't strong enough to make the right choice. People mistake the fact that he is an amazingly written likable character with him being a good person. This is all to say that, to me, and i think to any who understood the first game, his death was a logical event, justified by the story itself. If Ellie gets on the path of vengeance over the death of her parental figure, isn't it logical that there would be people wanting to kill Joel when he killed countless fathers? And not all of them were bad people. The main argument people will make is that his death was badly written or humiliating (well yes, sorry, this is a realistic setting, his death had meaning to his character and that's all that matters). This is incorrect, by any standard. But you've have probably heard it a million times, or experienced it yourself. Well this is the effect that bias has on people. I have written more than 6000 characters explaining why nothing about his death was badly written, or explaining any supposed "plot hole". I am yet to come across someone who can prove any plot hole. There's a 5000 character max for this review, so i can't post it. But just by watching the scene again i'm sure you can come to that same conclusion. "Joel gave his name like an idiot, he would never have done that" Wrong. Abby already knew his name. Tommy told her. Why? Well excuse Tommy for not thinking of a false name when being on the verge of being eaten by a horde with slim chances of survival.  He just didn't imagine that he's talking to the daughter of a Firefly Joel murdered 4 years ago, and that she somehow knows where he lives, his name, but *not how he looks*. Other people will say that Joel wouldn't have trusted Abby. And i agree, until you watch the scene and realize there was literally no other choice. It was trusting her or dying. Literally. That was their best and only chance. That's what they say. Moving along, people say that it's stupid that Ellie doesn't kill Abby at the end. The context needed to explain this requires 25 hours of story that lead up to that moment. The reason is simple. Abby doesn't deserve to die because she has learned from her actions, feels guilt, and has paid a tremendous price (people often forget Ellie kills ALL of her friends and "boyfriend"). And then, she spared Ellie. For the second time. She proved merciful by not killing her at the start (because for her it was about justice, Joel deserved death, but let Ellie live, because she had nothing to do with it). And then she proved merciful once again, because she knows she doesn't win anything by killing her, it will just make things worse, even if Ellie killed everyone she cared about. And then you have Ellie's side, where she gradually realizes that she has become a monster, a torturer, no better than Abby herself, someone who would hurt her loved ones if it meant getting revenge. She says so herself, at some point, it stopped being about Joel. She knows she can't justify what she's doing, and so she spares Abby, because she knows it won't bring Joel back. If anything, it will kill whatever trace of humanity Joel left in her.,And still, there's so much to say, so much to explain, justify, because people just can't get enough of hating the game. Some hate the game for external reasons, some hate it because they heard it's bad, some hate it because they played it but didn't give it a fair chance, some hate it because they didn't understand the first one, and some hate it because of justifiable reasons. I could make an equally long review all of the virtues of the game, and some criticisms that i have, but hey, who will even read it. I just wished they had given the game a fair chance. Have a nice day.
1742) The best story telling in any game I've ever played. Most cinematic films do even get close to level of story telling.
1743) I thought this game was downright brilliant, and I don’t understand why people would give it a 1/10, or a 0/10 Even if they didn’t like the story. *spoilers*,First of all, the graphics are by FAR the best graphics we’ve had in a game so far, and there is so much attention to detail hidden within it (blood stays on your foot and you see blood in snow from where you step, wind movements, tree leaves following you as you walk through them). The graphics, and attention to detail alone makes it at least a 4/10 for me. Second of all, the story. The story shows struggles of grief, consequences on ones own actions, and the building of guilt that leaves the player with those same feelings. I was in shock after Joel’s death. I was angry, and thought “wait, that doesn’t make sense, Joel would never do anything to get himself into that type of situation” but after following the story some more, and ACTUALLY thinking about it, it makes perfect sense. Through Joel’s whole life post-breakout he’s been surviving, struggling with his own depression, and killing anyone he had to. But after he got to Jackson, he was only ever around people he loved. His brother, Ellie, Maria, etc,. He was comfortable, and that made him soft. And, may I say, of COURSE he would die in a humiliating, and gruesome fashion!! He killed Abbys father, the ONE man in the world who could have created a vaccine, for the ENTIRE HUMAN RACE!! And you guys are crying because “oh Joel didn’t deserve such a mean sad death :((( 1/10” god damn, YES HE DID!! And, to the last thing that people are “upset” about. The ending. Ellie finally catches up to Abby, and has a chance to kill her, but doesn’t. Why? Two reasons (in my opinion),Abby and Lev are parallel to Ellie and Joel in the first game. They travel alone, trying to get to safety, taking care of each other, while slowly learning to like each other, and keep each other safe. Hell, at the end, Abby is carrying Lev the EXACT same way Joel was carrying Ellie out of the hospital. I think Ellie knew that if she killed Abby there, then this would just be a cycle that never ends. Revenge, and murder. She kills Abby, Lev kills Ellie, etc,.,And also: Because she knew it wouldn’t make anything better. Never for a moment did Ellie get a chance to actually mourn Joel. Right after Joel died, she immediately was en route to Seattle, fighting through hordes of enemies, hunting people down, dealing with another loss, and then going right into raising a child. Ellie thought at the beginning, “I’m gonna find and kill ever last one of them”, but after killing a few all she started thinking afterwards was “I just have to kill Abby, then I’ll go”. She had such a gruesome amount of guilt after every single kill that she just wanted to get it over with. So, at the end, when she was drowning Abby, she realized that she wasn’t feeling better, she still felt that guilt, and pain. Then she thought of her and Joel’s last conversation. The conversation of forgiveness. (Why did she have this flash back? Was she thinking of what Abby and Levs last conversation was like? Or was she trying to pick up on her and Joel’s last thought, which was, learning to forgive. Maybe both?) After this flashback, she lets Abby go, trying to forgive. Maybe not so much Abby, but more so herself. That’s something I’m still interpreting myself.
1744) Best Story.  Best graphics.  Best game I've played.  This is to be played.  You need to feel it.
1745) This game is one of the best games I have ever played in my life, it made me have most of the feelings, the story is incredible, the gameplay is great, and the graphics are certainly the best of the generation. When the game was over I was left with a void inside me, this game deserves all the best, Neil Druckmann's team, and the director himself, deserves a standing ovation. Incredible Game!
1746) Like many others, I have been waiting for this game for many years and now, the long-awaited release took place. I bought the game and for a couple of weeks I was immersed in it. I have never seen such intensity of drama in any other game. Emotions are torn over the place, the game makes you suffer and experience everything that happens in it. At the end, I felt depression, sadness and hopelessness ... It's just amazing! I’m so tired of all these "super heroes", "happy ends" and boring stories! I have got many thoughts after passing… many questions for my own life ... When the credits began, I just got up, went to my daughter, hugged her and sat like that for some time ...,I absolutely cannot understand all this crazy hatred around the game. Indeed, there is a lot of unnecessary feminism, many LGBT feature stories. Why is “transgender” needed here? Why all the main and strong characters (except Joel) are women? In the WLF camp you can hear a conversation of random people about the love of two guys (this moment can be easily miss), what is it for? Many of these things just made it difficult for me to empathize with some of the characters. I am not against LGBT, but sometimes there is too much of it! Why couldn't it be done like in the first part of the game? There were strong men and women; it was harmoniously incorporated into the game's plot. I believed in role-playing of Bill, Tess, Marlene! But Lev's motivation eluded me... Either he is a girl, but wants to be a boy, or he / she is fighting against the patriarchy in the village, or he / she simply did not want to marry this man??? What should I empathize with here? Why is this? To please someone or try to take advantage of current “LGBT-trends”? It's superfluous, but it does NOT make the game a bad! I understand Ellie's motivation, I understand Abby. I both love and hate them at the same time. I DON'T want to fight when they fight each other, neither in the theater or at the end of the game! They don't know each other's history, they don't know each other's feelings… I would like to shout, "STOP!". But the game, like in the life, continues its story in cold blood. Where has it been in video games? NOWHERE!,I would give the game a "9" due to the overabundance of LGBT stories, but the game deserves a better rating (which was greatly spoiled by those who put a "0" (perhaps they not even played the game)). The game is EXCELLENT!
1747) Story 8/10 finally Joe got what he deserved.,Gameplay 10/10,Graphics 10/10 amazing game animations,Soud 10/10
1748) Best game I've played in years. This game was the first game that I was excited to actually play in years. My childhood was relived while playing this game.
1749) Only a true piece of art could destroy you emotionally like this game does. Well done ND, well done.
1750) *SPOILERS*,The last of us part II again subverts the expectations of what a lead protagonist should be. While we feel genuine hatred for Abby after she so barbarically kills Joel it creates the same anger that Ellie feels within the player. Watching that scene unfold I felt the same anger and sadness as Ellie and rarely can a game illicit such a response. The last of us part 2 does a great job at posing a real question to the player. Can the love for someone out way the things they have done? And should they not be accountable for their actions? Joel systematically continued the end of the world by eliminating the only doctor that could have created a cure. Thus plunging the world into eternal chaos. Just because his intentions were not to lose another daughter can we really as rational thinking people not expect that decision to catch up with him? It should have and it did. Now when the shift to Abby arrives we again are posed another question. Who exactly is the villain here? We see Abbys trauma almost mimic Ellie’s. Loss of a father that fuels a blinding hatred. I think it’s quite poignant to point out Neil Druckmanns Israeli heritage, not to attack but as a backdrop for the themes of this game. I am a British born Palestinian  and my life has continuous been filled with a parental given hatred for a people I know nothing about. I think the whole theme of the cyclical nature of revenge and violence are very real problems the world faces today. Inability to forgive and move past trauma. Naughty dog have really hammered home the idea that everyone is a villain in someone else’s story. Abby the villain in Ellie’s story. Joel the villain of Abby story. Ellie the villain in the stories of Nora, Mel and Owen. And in the world of the last of us that fits beautifully. It’s the post apocalypse and there are no good people any more. Just varying shades of grey. I praise this game not because the story was amazing. But because it dared to do something more. Challenge my preconceptions and opinions uand art that makes you think that deep is never going to be bad a thing. Growth is everything. Forgiveness is all.
1751) Truly the greatest game ever made. The story is brutal and unforgiving and requires an open mind. If you come into the game wanting a rerun of TLOU1 then you're going to have a bad time and get angry. Ignore the haters, avoid the spoilers, roll with the story.
1752) One of the best PS4 games of all time! The game has everything, amazing Graphics, awesome gameplay, great story filled with emotion, rage, love, respect and friendship. I can't believe the hate the game has got. The ratings are not fair enough just because some youtuber didn't like the game or because a critic reviewed a game without even finishing it. This is a must play game if you own a PS4. Great work, TLOU2 team!!! Loved the game to the core!!!
1753) The best game ever made.,Some people will hate it some don't but dont change the fact of being  a master piece.
1754) Naughty dog ​​got as heavy on the story as 1 or 2, the strong point for me are the characters, extremely well scared, it seems that there is real life, and a courage that had to kill the main character was incredible. They killed or Joel in a dry, cruel way and would even say cowardly, but with a purpose: to make people feel and with revenge on their skin, just like Ellie felt, something that is due to Dina who does not cause the same impact, not criteria for the same drama and it would just be another game with the theme of revenge. In such an end of the world, death is a horror, ugly and raw, I was even waiting for some words like "I love you", "take care" in the deaths of certain characters as fantasy, but no, it was dry, it was de suddenly and I cause very strong emotions. As for example, in Jesse's death, before opening a door he was alive after opening a floor like a potato sack, without saying a word, and that's exactly what happens in the world, nothing fancy for 5 minutes to redeem etc., then death. In addition to revenge, the game talks about empathy, something that many people do not feel, did the other side of the coin, so it was amazing to play with an abby, although I still prefer Ellie. The genius of the end was incredible, or the emptiness in which abby and Ellie fight, symbolizing how they feel about the whole story, abby had her goal completed, Ellie did not, but nothing else was left to her since she saw everything that was not there. Joel back and still had Jesse and the Star. The boats too, or the abby's boat turned to the sea to move on, and Ellie's boat towards the land, the abby has already done his revenge, lost people too but the goal was completed and he became a better person and he was ready to move on, already at Ellie, continuing the story of revenge. I love Ellie's ending very much, the biggest fear was being alone and unfortunately it was, in my head I hope you went to Jackson and reconciled with Dina. Tommy, a guy who has weights on his back, but was also being a better person again, became obsessed with revenge too (the loss of his eye symbolizes being blinded by revenge) and had problems with Maria, something that I think ended after the death of his father, who broke up with Owen.,The game is incredible, I never felt anything like it, but some things spoil the presence of some bugs, but they don't interfere much in the gameplay, and frustrations with the listening mode, as they sometimes don't catch or affect them, are being exhibited.
1755) I actually found the game pretty good even though it was depressing it actually had a really good story
1756) This game is put together so nicely. Naughty Dog continues to give fans a hell of a great time!
1757) Key word is EMOTIONS !,I don't know how is it possible to put something else than 10/10.,This game is able to create emotions and when you finish it you feel like empty. You play both side of the story and at the end you like Abby as much as you like Ellie and it's terrible.,,- Graphics are insane even with the first PS4 generation (TV LG OLED),- Sound tracks are insane ...,,Thanks for all those emotions !
1758) Great story and entirely enhanced gameplay from the first game. Truly head and shoulders above any other game currently on the market
1759) Best game and story I've played in a while. The ending makes you contemplate the characters and the journey they each have in the game. Spectacular all around.
1760) Game play was 10/10 for me. I personally loved the story and Abby's quest. I'll give the story an 8/10. The graphics were incredible too (10/10).,,For me, the best moments in this game were the boss fights and the story exposition. I did my first playthrough on "hard" difficulty and it was really well balanced and fair, but presented a good challenge. The loop of killing enemies, hiding, repositioning, and figuring out how to kill the next enemy was super fun. I also enjoyed the two different play styles of Ellie and Abby. Both characters were badass in their own way, with Ellie feeling more nimble and tactical and Abby being an overpowered bare-knuckle brawler.,,The standout moment of the game for me was fighting the giant miniboss lady with the sledge hammer as Abby.,,Criticism 1: I think the game is slow to get going.,,Criticism 2: I think that in the pursuit of making "art", Naughty Dog mislead a lot of people, which maybe wasn't fair. I avoided the leaks and approached the game unbiased and absolutely loved it. I found myself waking up at 5am so that I could get a few hours in before work; I was completely addicted. The thing with art though is that not everyone appreciates it in the same way- people have different tastes and that's okay. I guess I'm trying to say that I understand why many were turned off by the game, but to me personally, it was a masterpiece.,,Also, I legit think many of the review bombers did it because playing as a girl with big muscles somehow assaults their masculinity. Not saying that everyone who didn't like it felt this way, but definitely some.
1761) The gameplay mechanics and the graphics are absolutely stunning in this game, and props to Ashley Johnson for portraying Ellie so perfectly!!
1762) This game is amazing. One of the best games I`ve ever played in my whole life. The soundtrack, the graphics, the story - and the way that is told throughout the game itself - are amazing. But you gotta play it and see for yourself.
1763) Even if the story is not perfect, the game is still a must play. The characters are great, the enemies are well made and it's fun to play. For me it's a great game.
1764) I loved this game a lot, I lost someone close to me, and this game really describes my sorrow and my anger. I also learned so much from this game. I learned that I have to be really cautious of my decisions, it could affect someone wrongly, and my words could affect someone negatively. For me this game changed me. I have never been so impacted from a game. I learned to have peace within myself, with me being who I am, with my flaws, just like this game, it has flaws, but it still felt so human to me, so raw. But then again this is my personal opinion and taste on the games story. Now the gameplay is **** awesome, if you loved the first game’s gameplay you would definitely have a blast with this one. The level designs are good, smart, suspenseful, tense. An absolute must play this game. Do I have to talk about the graphics, or the sound design, or the accessibility options? Even if you don’t like the story, the gameplay alone is beautiful, it’s enjoyable af. Video games are arts, and arts can mean different things to different people. People like different things, and that’s fine. Just because you don’t like something doesn’t mean it’s bad or trash. Play the game and then form your opinion.
1765) So I would say this is actually an 8/10 but because of the review bombing this game has had I've scored 10/10 just so it has some fair representation. It took 2 weeks after I finished the game for me to understand it (I hated it at first) but I have finally come around. The thing for me that takes away from it being 10/10 was the way in which ND killed off Joel - it could have been better and I feel the character deserved a better send off, even if it just meant that Abby was introduced sooner. All in all a great game and I think a part 3 would be amazing, especially if they rounded off everything story wise and made it an iconic gaming trilogy.
1766) Story is very good. Fresh ideas. Still has the gameplay that i enjoyed from the previous version
1767) A generation defying masterpiece from Naughty Dog.,The journey from beginning to end is one that i can't stop thinking about, it's been 2 days since i've finished it and i've found myself watching videos explaining the world and virus from TLOU.,The journeyis fascinating.
1768) Love it. Almost as good as the first one.,Another masterpiece.,The ending is good.
1769) scenario is good for me but not for everyone. mechanics are very good  musics are very good only scenario is not for everyone
1770) Fantastic story and the gameplay is also improved with many new types of encounters and strategies you can use.
1771) One of the best games in history, congratulations to Naughty Dog for this impeccable work in all aspects.
1772) The game was amazing. I don't know why everyone is mad... most people I know that are mad didn't even play it. Get a life! Get off YouTube and play the game or do something else.
1773) It is a masterpiece. I know some are pissed about Joel’s death but it is a cruel world of last of us where there are no heroes but survivors.
1774) This is Naughty Dog best game, top of that genre class and one for the ages. Also it shows enormous improvements in gameplay since TLOU and Uncharted 4. It shows also improvements in achievements structure and replayability.,This game has astonishing narration and is artistically sublime. Incredible graphic too.,Also I believe it is the most violent game I ever played, not only phisically, but mostly mentally and emotionally.,I’d like to say THANK YOU to all developers and artists that made this game possible. Also, all the fuss from those self-proclamed fans only shows how much culturally backwards still is our society.
1775) Too much have gamers played by just one side of the story, only seeing the view from one perspective.  Naughty Dog and Neil Druckmann break that standard with TLOU2.  Now you are exposed to causality and effect from both sides of the coin.  What you perceive as callous and evil, in reality is long sought after justice for the other side.  This game was well thought out and a journey to play through, making you see things from both perspectives, whether you wanted to or not, you need to understand there are always multiple sides to a story, multiple individuals affected.  you are taught that there are no winners in seeking revenge.  To quote Gandhi "An eye for an eye will only make the whole world blind"
1776) Good game. Must have! Best game 2020 year. Good game. Must have! Best game 2020 year.
1777) The Last of Us Part II is anything but simple. At first glance you’d argue that it is. It’s about a set of characters in a post-apocalyptic world. Food, medical supplies and other basic necessities are in shortage. The government has crumbled and in it’s place factions have risen to either gain control or give hope to the people around them. All of this because of an outbreak that spread to quickly to even give people a chance to find a cure or an appropriate way to contain the infection. Days Gone, Dying Light, The Walking Dead, DayZ, and many other games have touched upon this concept of an infected-filled world. It’s hard to talk about this game without revisiting the first one because Part II does start with the end of Part 1. So you got Ellie - your escorts mission throughout all of Part I - and she is immune to the fungi that creates these zombie-like creatures in this game. in fact, she is probably the only one that is immune. Then you got Joel, who is your main protagonist in the first game and the one that has to take Ellie to one of the factions called the Fireflies in hopes that they can study Ellie and find a cure. You get to see Joel lose her actual daughter early on in Part I and thusly see him hesitate in taking on the task of escorting a 14-year old girl in Ellie across America to the hospital that will find a cure for humanity. He takes the job anyways and in his journey with this girl begins to empathize with her and allows himself to bond with her as though she was his daughter. Given that he is all sorts of gray, he ends up taking a decision that impacts the future of humanity in saving Ellie and you have the premise of Part II.,Joel kills the only known neurosurgical expert that can perform the necessary procedure to study Ellies brain. The reason, he couldn’t bare losing his newly adopted daughter as the surgery would have killed her. Without hesitation, Joel rushes into the operating room, takes out the doctor, takes out anyone and everyone in his way and saves Ellie, while at the same time dooming humanity. You see this morally gray guy take a definitive action, a selfish one at best and you have to deal with it while also questioning what would you have done if you were in his exact same shoes. If you experienced the TLOU Part I and allowed yourself to be in Joel and Ellie’s shoes, you were probably engrossed in the story about them two as a father and daughter, and the infected world became secondary to their story.  Still important but not the real focus of the story. Part II does the same thing. It starts off revisiting that hospital scene and giving you Joels rationale. Then, you play as Ellie for most of the game and then Abby for another good portion of the game. You get to see what happens because of Joel’s action through both of these characters. How they internalize it, how they express their feelings outward and how they inevitably impact the immediate world around them. This is still an infected world with more chaos than the first one, as no cure is found after things fell apart thanks to Joels action four years prior. Though you live in this world and interact with the present factions and learn about factions of the past, the game informs you that it is not about the world and instead it is about the characters you interact with in the world. Ellie is not hunted for the cure because she was not necessarily identifiable. Joel was because he was. So instead of this game being about hunting Ellie and her escaping it, it is about Ellie dealing with Joel’s actions and her own actions. It is also about Abby and her actions, as how it relates to Joel. The world that’s here is to inform you about the characters’ mind set and how it can push them forward to take certain actions or help them hold back. This game is not one note, contrived or preachy. At least I didn’t think it to be. It can be cut and dry at points and shocking at others but there’s deeper meaning to everything that happens and it happens organically. What I like most about this game, that may not be new, is that it goes off the path to give you uncomfortable moments that make you think about the society we live in and the society in this world. It makes you think about your own values and moral codes in comparison to the characters you play as. Of course, that is if you let it happen. At the end you go along on a tough ride in which you as a player clash with your characters actions in pivotal moments. This game is a buy, just like the first one was. It is well told and well crafted, and deserves your attention. It has great combat mechanics, visceral action, a unique cast of characters that are well enough fleshed out for you to care for them (pay attention to flashback as and notes) and will leave you thinking the game through days after you finish it.
1778) Game was great. It is a sea of emotions, End if the game too hard for today’s community, but it’s genius.
1779) I have never experienced a game that left me speechless with tears running down my face, and total devastation. So much drama, character development, and world building that tugs at your heart strings, and show you just how much of a story Naughty Dog has created. You definitely get your money’s worth. Those Dogs were barking and they sure have been Naughty.
1780) An absolutely incredible experience and the most emotionally complex and conflicted narrative I've experienced in a game. This is a game about revenge, but more so, it's about empathy, forgiveness, understanding, and defining the purpose of your own life rather than having it defined for you.
1781) Amazing game, I don't get the hate! Played Part One and Part Two equally thrilled and amazed.
1782) Even better than the first! The Story is something that Ill always remember. Wept in the end.
1783) Never have I played a game or consumed a piece of media that has asked so much of me. Absolute Masterpiece in my opinion & a must play.
1784) Great mechanics, good plot, new enemies are challenging. If you liked the first one, you’ll like this one. Ignore the incel reviewers.
1785) masterpiece.in some part of the game made a lots of question in my head but drukmann in game answer all of it.during the game i asked myself how can it wanna end and finally i got my answer. drukmann proves that theres no black and no white,always is gray. really cant explain how amazing was playing this game.
1786) Thank you naughty dog ​​for a great game!,This game is no worse and no better than the first part, this game is different and magnificent in its own way
1787) Nothing short of a masterpiece! From the pace, to the graphics, to the set pieces to the emotions, both in and induced! It's Naughty Dog at it's best! Bravo!
1788) Don't listen to the hate people are giving this game.  I was upset at first as well with Joel's passing but after playing and finally finishing the game.. I was left speechless for how anazing Of a story it turned out to be.  I am also flabbergasted from all of the hate.  The negative comments are clearly from people who either don't play video games on PlayStation or haven't given the game a chance after the first hour.,This game is truly incredible
1789) The Last Of Us part II in many ways expands this story, and even though it is painful to see Joel out of the picture so soon, I feel it was necessary for even I to be motivated with Ellie’s goal. I remember thinking ok I’ll stop after this section and then kept playing for the sake of it was my revenge too. And once I switched to abby I felt so conflicted the further I played as her. Did I want Ellie to succeed or Abby to flourish? And although even the end didn’t feel successful to me I could not get it out of my mind. This game is truly a masterpiece for even making it possible for myself to switch and understand other perspectives, and to even feel the emotions I felt. All I really should have said was this game is a must play, for anyone who likes a phenomenal story.
1790) This game is an absolute masterpiece. The story is simply outstanding and the characters are like real people, with their own motivations and hopes.  I can't understand people reviewing this game with a 0, this proves that fanatics don't have any criteria at all. For me, one of my most favourite games of all time. Do not miss it!
1791) With such an impactful inciting incident, a well written story with believable dialogue, an ending though not exactly happy but neccesary, plus fluid and engrossing gameplay that forces the player to make uncomfortable decisions, Last of Us Part II is easily Game of the Year in 2020. It's a bit disheartening to see so many hateful people reviewing the game based on their own biases and often sexist opinions rather than actually playing. I wish I could filter those out because I thoroughly believe the user score would have been much higher which it rightfully deserved. But unfortunately the world is filled with ignorant people. I hope future players will read more reputable reviews than the ones solely posted to drag down a game they hated before it was even released.
1792) Actually for the one who played part 1 and 2 and really love that game He/she will gonna blown away with each little details in that Extraordinary experience ever By far The Last Of Us II the best game ever and it’s better than part one Actually after I finished it I asked myself a question if Neil gonna do Part III how could he make something better than that part it’s will be a real challenge on him Neil Druckmann thank you man for bringing us the best game in the history And if there will be Part III please start now for the developing process
1793) Amazing game. Beat 2 times on hard and survivor difficulties. The story is amazing and graphics plus acting is all top notch perfect 10s. Gameplay is fun as hell and very upgraded from the first game which is one of the things I hear people complain about along with the story. Yes joel dies but his death was not in vain. It need to happen for this fantastic story to carry out.
1794) I enjoyed it. Obviously it was cruel of the developers to force me to play as Abby, which along with Joel's death was the only things I wish were different. But I loved how Ellie's emotions change and ends up forgiving Abby. This is the most heated argument about the game. Most people hated the ending as they thought the entire plot was pointless considering she lost almost everyone and everything to kill her and ended up not doing it.,But I believe it was better that way. During the ending I was low key hoping Ellie would just end up forgiving Abby... And then it actually happened. We see a flashback to Elie preparing to forgive Joel and just as she was drowning Abby, she remembers this and realises that this isn't what he would've wanted. She forgives her.,The whole point of her going back to kill Abby after settling in the farm was to find CLOSURE. She needed to stop seeing Joel everywhere. The only way to find that closure was by finishing this. But at the very end, she realises that just by forgiving her, she finds that closure she longs for. She is happy with her decision. That's what we all want.,At the end, when no one is at the farm, it's not over yet. Dina and the kid most likely just went to live at Jackson since it must be lonely to live for months alone with a baby. We see Ellie going there as well to join her love and her son.,People who say all this was a waste of time and that she killed all those people for nothing are only partially right. In the end, she got what she wanted. She released revenge doesn't solve everything.
1795) Enjoyed the game through and through. Be your own judge! Don't let the hate sway you from trying this piece of art. Definitely hits you in the feels but well worth the ride!
1796) It's a great game. And I love seeing the internet ape out and throw feces everywhere. Kol hakavod Neil, please bring us more no matter what IP it is.
1797) The game is a MASTERPIECE. This is of course my opinion because game quality is subjective not objective like most of the ridiculous user “reviews” on here would lead you to believe. I played the game in its entirety. I have never experienced a greater combination of story, gameplay and overall technical magnificence. If you are expecting a by the numbers repeat of the original that doesn’t expand and take story telling in new directions, go play the first one again and save your time/money.,Also, if you’re someone who hasn’t played the game and gives this game a zero cause they are so mad about plot points they heard: grow the hell up.
1798) Love the game and how they Spent time developing each character’s personality and relationships !
1799) arguably the best ps4 masterpiece..,Sin duda la mejor Obra maestra de ps4..
1800) Amazing!!! Thank you Neil Druckmann!! This game bigger then others. Naughty dog the best
1801) After playing through the game twice, I have to say, this is the game of the generation.
1802) Masterpiece play to the end before judging this game I've got the platinum and it's an amazing game the story telling is amazing the gameplay is great and the accessibility means anyone could play this game
1803) Such a great gameplay and storytelling! Even though there are many negative reviews, I hope that Naughty Dog won’t be afraid to make a game in the way they want to.
1804) Controversial story, but I think it’s very impressive. I think it's an in missable ps4 game!
1805) There are many things about human nature we struggle against. We see what we want to see. We acquire our beliefs and perspectives from the people and the world around us.,,The Last of Us Part II illuminates many complicated and difficult facets of humanity – a journey that tackles empathy, anger, and how we are defined by those around us. These philosophical considerations can be uncomfortable to wrestle with, but Naughty Dog conveys them with careful nuance and unflinching emotion, creating a narrative masterpiece with a unique power few games have ever achieved.,,The story opens with a conversation about how the first game ended – about what Joel did at the Firefly hospital, and the lie he told Ellie about it. That exchange lays the foundation for the current state of their complicated relationship, which players come to understand even more deeply as the story continues. Holed up in an encampment in Jackson, Wyoming, Ellie and Joel are trying to come to terms with the consequences of their previous actions, and the world continues to suffer from the chaos of the infection that has transformed mankind and ravaged civilization.,,The Last of Us Part II is defined by its story at every turn, and Naughty Dog masterfully weaves its themes in at every level. It depicts the raw violence that Ellie uses to navigate this harsh world, and that violence feeds into pivotal plot points during her quest for revenge. Yes, you kill many humans and Infected along the way, but the accumulated effect of Ellie’s fury weighs on you over time. Even as you clear an area of hostile guards, you question your own role in the brutality. The people you assassinate have names, and you can overhear them talking about their loved ones as you sneak up on them. Though it’s difficult to say that this is “fun,” the way The Last of Us Part II forges this level of investment and immersion is one of its greatest strengths.,,The chaotic, post-apocalyptic overlay creates the perfect opportunity for different factions to vie for power. In addition to the zombie-like Infected, you also fight the militarized WLF and the technology-averse Seraphites. You deal with all these groups in intense encounters that blend sneaking and shooting in varied and unpredictable ways. Ellie’s increased agility lets you jump, crawl, and vault through areas and take advantage of verticality, but the biggest improvement to combat is the way the world pushes you to play. Stealth is always rewarded, and you can control the battlefield with clever use of your resources, especially in the larger environments. I knew I made a mistake when I died, and I felt satisfaction when I skillfully handled a situation,,Environments tell their own stories of those who became infected. People waiting for their families to return, soldiers hunting deserters, and patients seeking treatment – you piece together these tragic and fascinating tales by reading notes and interpreting clues in the world. From a more practical standpoint, exploring every area is important for gathering resources used to craft items and upgrade talents like faster crawling and improved awareness. Almost every corner has something to find, and I felt rewarded for digging through drawers and searching every room. Going into an empty store, it was easy to feel for the characters in this world who had their lives upended. And as much as gaming can be an escape, the state of the real world right now provides a lens that is difficult to ignore; I never thought seeing the remains of a bookstore or a restaurant would hit harder due to the COVID-19 pandemic, but they did,,The production values that Naughty Dog brings to this experience are second to none. The characters don’t only look good – they look real, complete with quirks that make them more believable as humans. The world and its inhabitants are visually stunning, with artwork and animations you will see just once, quips and conversations that make the world feel alive, and a soundtrack and sound effects that brought chills to my spine. Low hums and water dripping on empty bottles add to the tension as you navigate the perils of the world,,I can rave about the attention to detail, the world, and the combat, but the story is where The Last of Us Part II sets a new bar. It is more about challenging your heart than your reflexes, and I simply cannot recommend it enough. There is much to be said about this game that can’t be said here due to spoilers, but you should play it as soon as you can with as little info as possible. But you don’t need to know specifics to appreciate how the gameplay and environmental cues all play into a single purpose: They make you feel the choices, helplessness, and the violence at the heart of this world and its characters. I can safely say this is the best narrative game I have played. I felt the confusion. It is a game that turned me inside out with each twist of the screw.
1806) I loved this game because of the amazing graphics and feeling ellie's emotions, the player needs to think smart and that is what makes it hard and enjoyable
1807) A masterpiece of a game for a generation of players. I've waited so many years for this and I loves every minute so much. From it being so inclusive of LGBT characters to the violent and dark tones its undertaken. Its a shame that it got bombed by fake negative reviews but it will never ever change the fact that this stunning and beautifully made game will always remain the biggest and best selling for many years to come. Naughty dog you have outdone yourselves once again!
1808) The story of TLOU P2 is, simply put, an extraordinary achievement in storytelling, and one of which I have very rarely seen in a video game. I’m sure the vast majority have seen the leaks or have had it spoiled for them by now, and straight away I want to say, do not let these spoilers steer you away from playing this game. This game has to be played to properly appreciate this work of art.,The story is a gut-wrenching, heart-breaking, and devastating journey that after 25 hours of playing, I didn’t want it to end. The structure of this story is a complex and ambitious approach from Neil Druckmann and co in attempting to take the player on a spiritual journey across the world of TLOU with our characters. Naughty Dog created a story that would continuously test the players emotions throughout the entirety of the game, and often leave the player feeling completely torn between what is right and wrong, whether they agree with the actions of a character, or even to an extent, making the player themselves question their own beliefs and emotions and impose guilt on them for their actions in a video game. Naughty Dog have perfected the art of putting the player into the characters shoes. You are Ellie. You are setting out on this seemingly blood-searching mission of revenge.,The games story is told in many ways. One of these ways is the incredibly emotional and soul-destroying flashbacks to previous events throughout the characters life. These flashbacks perfectly tell the story of the characters you encounter throughout the game and provide perfect understanding as to why they feel and act the way they do. Often the game would leave you wondering, what happened there? Why is this character acting like that? How did this character reach this position? And well, the flashbacks in this game perfectly explain every bit of that. Admittedly, some flashbacks can often be seen to be in the wrong place in terms of the timeline of the game. Some flashbacks may have had a greater impact if they were told in a different order, however this does not take away the fact that ND’s use of flashbacks is a spectacular achievement. These sequences are an incredible nod back to the previous game, which anyone who played and loved the first game are happy to see and hear.,Naughty Dog have once again mastered the art of fast paced sequences that leave the player on the edge of their seat, and yet again perfected those slower, more emotional moments of bonding and growth between the characters. These are those special gaming moments that stay with you long after you have completed this game.,The story of The Last of Us Part 2 is a complicated emotional and spiritual journey told by a range of extensive storytelling and structural devices which can cause this game to be seen as messy. However, the sheer complexity of the story Neil Druckmann is trying to tell has to be approached with an open mind. Let the story play out, let Naughty Dog take you on this path they have created for us to discover and follow. This game is not your standard video game story. This is the sort of story you would expect to see in a classic novel or a blockbuster movie, this is not a simple story of revenge, this is not what you expect it to be. Just to quote the words of Girlfriend Reviews on YouTube, the plot and the story are two completely different things. The plot is the main idea of where the game will take you and what it will follow throughout. The story however is each individual character’s journey along the way and how we reach the ultimate plot goal. Simply put, on the surface the plot may be seen as simple, however the story is the complex artistic creation that lays underneath, and that is the part that should be truly appreciated across the entire gaming community.,This is a story of redemption, soul searching and the everlasting cycle of violence and where violence and obsession leads you. This game was designed to be uncomfortable to play, this isn’t just your standard video game, this is a story and Naughty Dog wants you to listen. This game will teach you lessons, and if by the end of it you haven’t learn anything, then you haven’t beaten the game, the game has beaten you.,The Last of Us Part 2 is a masterpiece. Albeit does have its flaws just like any other story may have, this game is an outstanding achievement in both design and storytelling like no other we have seen on this generation. This game will change the way you think and will completely alter your perceptions of any other game you will ever play. The Last of Us Part 2 is a must play, there is no other way about it. Don’t just take my word for it, play it for yourself and see.,One thing is for sure, the PlayStation 4 is signing off in style.,To Naughty Dog, Sony and all who worked on this game: Thank you. The Last of Us Part 2 (2020), Final Score: 9.7/10
1809) Absolute 10/10 Nothing comes even next to it when it comes to attention in detail,mechanics,stunner animations and cut scenes,gameplay and level design, the game feels just too "alive" and "breathing" in every step you take. An absolute pleasure to play.,The hate to it because of some people not liking where the story went is just unfair...,Spoilers without context, and watching someone play it from YouTube dont do it justice.
1810) This game is amazing. There is a very sharp turn in the beginning and it does a great job of keeping you interested the whole way through. The main characters story telling is phenomenal, along with the game play and atmosphere the game leaves you in.
1811) The greatest game I have ever played. A masterpiece. That’s it. The best.
1812) How far the spiral of violence will take you and are you even able to get out of it? Play this game and you will find out. Story has more levels than first part and nothing is black and white anymore. Colors of your story are changing and sometimes you wish that darkness is not there. But it is. You will reevaluate your standings many times. Excellent visual narrative and story build up. Characters are evolving as the Seattle skyline gets ready for storm. Dark clouds and thunders of storm will not bring the clean air but another wave of despair as characters tries to change their fate. At the end, even the storm will calm down and will spit you out - filled with immersive story and excellent game play. Highly recommend this installation.
1813) not the game everyone wanted but the game everyone needed. the last of us part 2 embarks u in a overwhelming journey. you'll be faced with hatred and anger. but somehow naughty dog manages to twist your brain and throw u in a land of confusion about what's right and what's wrong. this game is a flawed masterpiece everyone needs to play.
1814) This is the best game i was play. Damn it’s so gôd, i don’t know how ND can make this game. I hope ib future ND can make game like this.
1815) ND!!! You create great game!!! Thank you!!! Thank you very much!!! Now I going to New game plus!
1816) The Last of Us Part II is the bravest game I ever play... by far. Therefore, you have to be brave enough to play it and enjoy it
1817) I came into this game expecting a lot of negative stuff, but I was really surprised at how well crafted the narrative is.,I saw that abby's storyline was a great addition to showcase how both Ellie and Abby are both good guys in their own stories, and how the hate and revenge cycle is a losing game that made everyone worse off at the end of their own stories.,,its bleak. its sad, its not a happy game.....but its a powerful narrative that got me wondering who the good person was in this game, and how in the universe's narrative, the post-apocalypse is a hellscape with humanity emerging as another monster to make everything worse... in that narrative, humanity could have done so much better, but like in the universe... we fail and Abby/Ellie's focus on their own revenge story ruined both their lives and they both got nothing out of it....not even the revenge they were seeking out to get.
1818) Great game, the story is basic but very impactful.,The writing is great even a few weeks after finishing the game I'm still thinking about it and getting to new conclusions.
1819) The game is absolutely phenomenal, and a monumental achievement for this medium. Graphics, Cinematography, Animations, Characters, Writing, Story, Gameplay, everything is ridiculously good. It took some bold choices and risks, and I applaud them for not pulling any punches whatsoever. It's been a while since I was this engaged and captivated with a video game, and Naughty Dog deserves all the praise they can get for pulling this off. The Last of Us 2 is a piece of art.
1820) The game was amazing they had to kill Joel of to resume the story u wouldn’t of had a impact if it was anyone else and Ellie didn’t kill Abby because she new Joel wouldn’t want Ellie to turn into a straight killer
1821) MASTERPIECE！ Finished the game in 2 days. Breathtaking graphics. Great story that explores multiple human emotions and character development. I ended up loving both protagonists: Abby ＆ Ellie... they' d make a lovely couple ；）
1822) *In English below,,Esse jogo não é para crianças ou pessoas ou preconceituosos/alienados.,Jogo apresenta pontos de vistas de duas personagens muito fortes(com contextos fortes), muitas vezes fará você questionar a atitude do personagem(mesmo o jogo não lhe dando escolhas para alterar).,A muita coisa que é jogada na nossa cara e nós faz ficar com ódio/raiva mas depois pensarmos melhor e vermos que o mundo(tanto no jogo quanto a vida real) não é facil, que escolhas são feitas que nós custam muito mais que o esperado/desejado.,Um final épico e muito emocionante, um historia forte  marcante e certamente será um jogo lembrado por muito tempo.,,- Jogabilidade: 10,- Gráfico: 10,- Historia: 10,,==========================,,This game is not for children or people or prejudiced / alienated.,,Game features the views of two very strong characters (with strong contexts), it will often make you question the character's attitude (even though the game does not give you choices to change).,The many things that are thrown in our face and make us hate / anger but then we think better and see that the world (both in the game and in real life) is not easy, that choices are made that cost us much more than the expected / desired.,An epic and very exciting ending, a strong striking story and it will certainly be a game remembered for a long time.,,- Gameplay: 10,- Chart: 10,- History: 10
1823) This game changed my life, its the goty for 2020 and the best game of the gen. Next gen graphics, gameplay is just one of the best in the game history and im in love with the characters story, tysm sony for allow us to play this game!
1824) I believe this game to be a grand challenge to the player, it's complex story and plotline will break down the very foundations of The Last of Us as we, the players, knew it. Taking down a symbol will certainly have an impact on the player, but understanding the broader context that lead to that, is the purpose of the game. Empathy is a big factor , personally I didn't find it hard to empathize with the characters, after all they are humans and have human actions and emotions. There is no evil character,  there's just flawed humans trying to handle the grief that leads their misguided actions into the ultimate revelation that an eye for an eye makes the whole world blind.
1825) Best game I've ever played!!! It was a wild, intense rollercoaster ride of emotion from start to finish. I’m an emotional wreck after it. I’m going to need some time to recover mentally and emotionally. Switching over to Stardew Valley for a bit lol,,My thoughts in a nutshell; I loved the game. It’s a very different story than the first game. It’s a way more sad, tragic, heart-wrenching game. It’s brutal, yes, but TLOU2 makes it a point to put your mental and emotional state in the blender for a reason. It was one of the most thought-provoking games I’ve played in a while. This game uses the player’s emotions against us perfectly and brings all of humanity’s ugliest flaws to the surface and rubs in our faces. When I finished this game, I actually took a pause to reflect and just thought about how grateful I am to have what I do in my life. To let go of any anger, stress, grudges that I have.  It’s hard to explain without giving away story spoilers. For me, the game is essentially a ‘not-so-gentle’ reminder, that in our dark, cruel world, (not entirely post-apocalyptic yet), we should find our bits and pieces of love,  joy and hold on tight……. Hold. on. tight.
1826) Great game! Loved the story. Great sequel. Hopw there is another! Hope she can move past what happens!
1827) One of the best games I have ever get the chance to play and experience it, if not the Best.,I'm sorry for people who can not enjoy and understand it in the way I'm I am.,Please for one time play the game understand the whole story and don't judge it from the first couple of chapters.
1828) This is the closest a Video game would ever come to Literature. Amazing gameplay, stunning visuals accompanied by an excellent story.
1829) This game really shows how much the gaming industry can do and should do. The Last Of Us Part II is complex and yet completely beautiful. Everyone needs to play it!
1830) Brilliant grahics, outstanding gameplay, fresh story. Perfect for adult gamers who have been playing games for ages and look for something genuine.
1831) I don't know why people got so mad. This game is really amazing and I don't regret playing it. It truly is a masterpiece. The story is very good, the characters are awesome, and how they evolve is so good. Gameplay is complex and I love that they kept the feeling from the first game( you'll know if you played it). Graphics are just...beautiful. If you are a fan of the first you ll love this game too.  Please don't believe every negative review. You have to try the game yourself. I did this and I was not sorry,I fell in love with the game and it s characters, and I am sure you will too..
1832) 7 years ago, after finishing part 1, i was left with the feeling that should there ever be a part 2 it would be a much darker story. TLOU2 shows us how it doesn't matter where you lie in the good-evil spectrum, your death will probably be brutal, gory and degrading, and that's ok because there's no divine justice or fate in that world. It's a tragic story about how our obsessions and inability to let go of the past can take away everything we love. It's just what i hoped for. A masterpiece.
1833) incredible incredible incredible atmosphere intense all the way through apart from the way they took the story best game ive ever played
1834) I'm a fan of the first game played it and gave something special outshining other storytelling driven games that makes me love Joel and Ellie's relationship and story so much and yet there is a sequel. Received so much hate when it got leaked and I've got a lot of doubt about it but I went through. Last of us part II is one of best games I've had on my ps4, naughty dog breaks so much limits upon what a game can be, totally take a huge turn from the first game, in terms of beautiful high quality graphics, much more calculated and gore gameplay that keeps the spirit of the first game. A heavy, tragic, ambitious, detailed and much more complex story that shows off different perspectives and deeper reflection and realizations of the situations the characters are taking in and showing how flawed and human they can be with acting from what they are and what they will be in the world of an unforgiving and cruel setting. It is such a roller coaster ride of emotions with shocking moments that the game will make you try to invest in its characters. The story shows up the actions turning into huge consequences affecting everyone by the means of revenge, violence, love and hate makes the characters interesting for how human and real they are. There are no forced SJW or LGBTQ+ elements shoved through you it is just what it is and there are no trans characters in the game just to clarify. This is one of the boldest move that the franchise had given showing a different path than the air tight story of Joel and Ellie from each other but it still has the creativity of making a very outstanding game than other repititive elements you see from other games. Such a level up tostory driven game in this generation.,Well please don't listen to some retarted close-minded person I've played the game its great. Most of them are **** review bombing it without even playing it and others giving it 10 rating with **** post intentions just experience the game.
1835) This game is an emotional masterpiece. I almost cried at the end! It's a little bit too long, but thats really my only small criticism. 95/100
1836) Excellent evolved gameplay and graphics. The story follows through from the first game, it's brutal, heartbreaking, complicated, at times fun and lighthearted but most of all it's really a story about obsession and revenge. Choices have consequenses and in this world, they're bloody. Hopefully the bracelet theory pans out and Ellie and Dina are together in the end. Ellie deserves a good ending besides finally letting Joel's death go. Overall one of the best games I've ever played and you can see all the hard work that went in to it. Top score.
1837) Greatest Game in History, Greatest Game of all time! Can't wait for Part 3!
1838) I just finished The Last Of Us Part II.  It was entirely gripping and emotionally exhausting.  I've never yelled "NOOO" and at my screen so much, both at those I'm rooting for and against.  Over the past few days, I've found myself thinking about the game's characters and events immediately upon waking up; going over decisions and justifications and "what if"s.  The game asks some incredibly big questions, and pulls absolutely no punches.  It's breathtakingly beautiful and shockingly, horrifically ugly.
1839) Don't let the internet people brainwash you into thinking this is a bad game...this game gives you an incredible unprecedented experience.
1840) O game é uma das melhores e ao msm tempo piores experiências com jogo da minha vida, ambas de um jeito bom. Pois, o game é um exercício de empatia, de se colocar no lugar do outro. Foi muito corajoso da N.D não só fazer isso na história, mas principalmente te fazer sentir o que as personagens sentem. Pois quanto mais você avança, menos você se sente recompensado de alguma forma, muito pelo contrário, quanto mais vc avança, mais parece que junto com as personagens vc se afunda, vc perde e o game fica cada vez mais pesado e angustiante. Isso pra mim é revolucionário e contra a maré de qualquer jogo existente, que pelo menos eu tenha jogado na minha vida, vc não se sente assim: "Victoria! Derrotei esse boss super difícil!","Olha só, derrotei esse cara, me deu vários itens" Ou qualquer coisa do tipo. Vc se sente pesado e chegando nos dois clímax finais, caso vc tenha comprado a experiência que a N.D tenta passar, vc joga com o coração na mão. Se vc não compra a idéia, não será a msm coisa e provavelmente o jogo decai muito.,A primeiro momento, achei meio sem sentido a morte do Joel, mas posteriormente parando pra pensar e analisar a situação, fez todo sentido. Logo, mudei de opinião sobre.,A única coisa que não gostei foi o começo da campanha da Abby, não só pela raiva inicial. Mas tbm pq o primeiro dia dela, ela faz missões com pessoas que vc já viu a Ellie matar, então perde muito o peso, vc sabe que não vai dar em nada aquilo tudo ali. Depois que ela se separa dessa glr e principalmente quando se junta com as duas crianças, ela cresce muito e fica do caralho, cinematográfico.,Tem até mesmo crítico de cinema fazendo análise das cenas do game de maneira cinematográfica e como uma cena pode construir de forma intrínseca uma narrativa.,O primeiro é uma obra prima e esse segundo segue o mesmo e até supera. Tudo no segundo game é mais aprofundado e as ações dos personagens tem mais peso. TLOU II não segue uma receita de bolo da indústria onde vc avança de fase e ganha um brinde até chegar no chefão e derrotar ele, sobe os créditos, acaba. E se não tiver um multiplayer ninguém liga mais pro jogo e não falam mais dele, como esse que tem quase um mês do lançamento e estamos aqui até agora discutindo o mesmo. Por isso que demora quase 10 anos entre o lançamento de um e outro e não 1 ano como AC.,The game is one of the best and at the same time the worst gaming experiences of my life, both in a good way.  Well, the game is an exercise in empathy, putting yourself in the other's shoes. It was very courageous for N.D not only to do that in the story, but mainly to make you feel what the characters feel.  Because the more you advance, the less you feel rewarded in any way, quite the contrary, the more you advance, the more it seems that along with the characters you sink, you lose and the game gets heavier and more distressing.  This for me is revolutionary and against the tide of any existing game, that at least I have played in my life, you don't feel like this:  "Victoria! I defeated this super tough boss!" "Look, I beat this guy, he gave me several items" Or anything like that.  You feel heavy and reaching the final two climaxes, if you bought the experience that N.D tries to pass, you play with your heart in your hand.  If you don't buy the idea, it won't be the same thing and probably the game will decay a lot. At first, I thought Joel's death was a little pointless, but later stopping to think and analyze the situation, it made perfect sense.  Soon, I changed my mind about. The only thing I didn't like was the start of Abby's campaign, not just because of the initial anger.  But also because her first day, she does missions with people you’ve seen Ellie kill, so she’s losing a lot of weight, you know she won’t do anything there.  After she separates from this glr and especially when she joins the two children, she grows up a lot and gets **** cinematic. There is even a film critic doing analysis of the game's scenes in a cinematic way and how a scene can intrinsically build a narrative. The first is a masterpiece and the second follows the same and even surpasses it.  Everything in the second game is more in-depth and the actions of the characters have more weight.  In the first game, things happen and they don't seem to have a consequence, that doesn't.  A much more mature game, unfortunately, the fans have not matured in those 7 years. The last of us does not follow a cake recipe from the industry where you advance to the next level and win a freebie until you get to the boss and beat him, up the credits, you're done.  And if you don't have a multiplayer, nobody cares more about the game and they don't talk about it anymore, like the one that has been almost a month since the launch and we are here so far discussing the same thing.  That's why it takes almost 10 years between the launch of one and the other and not 1 year as AC.
1841) This game is a Masterpiece -> from story telling point of view to gameplay and off-course  the graphics (which is brilliant)as well.The story has different layers and understanding it is very important in order to get along and understand  the characters(specially Abby).The game is divided into two halves ->1st half Ellie and 2nd half Abby and both journey's are brilliant and way different from each other.Each of the two characters has different motives in the 2 different halves of the story ->Ellie journey is motivated by revenge while Abby's is due to of guilt and debt. I hated Abby at the beginning  but by the time both story merges i was more into her than Ellie and thats the beauty of this game and story telling , you'll just have to dive into it to actually understand Abby's side of the story and what lead her kill JOEL. Overall its perfect sequel to the 1st part with a worthy story.
1842) Amazing level design, graphics, gameplay, voice acting and more. Groundbreaking and heartbreaking. Incredible follow up to LOU1.
1843) Well it didn't suck The game was a emotional rollercoaster from wanting to Abby burn in hell . To the end where u are just screaming stop fighting.,Gameplay 10, visuals 10 , story 9.5 (for obvious reasons).
1844) Just AMAZING!!! No more words are necessary to describe this game. Thanks, Naughty Dog
1845) Amazing gameplay, visuals, soundtrack, but the story.... STILL AMAZING! It’s a genuine, unique, creative and real depiction of human emotions of vengeance, hatred, empathy, perspective and forgiveness, in the lawless and cruel world that is The Last of Us. A great character study that goes over characters that are one of the most fully realized characters ever and that make you empathize with them even if you don’t always agree with their actions. Naughty Dog once again has made an unforgettable experience for the PlayStation. This sequel is a dark game and even though it may leave you feeling empty and down at the end, it gives the series a chance to grow, evolve, and continue on for The Last of Us Part III
1846) I feel compelled to rate this game due to the unnecessary hate it has recieved. The fact that it has 129k user reviews in 1 month is ridiculous. The game is fantastic, and it continues the story from the 1st game. It is dark, bleak and truly scary in some parts. I highly reccomend this game
1847) The best storytelling game ever!  Many games caused my tears with their narration, but TLOU2 .... After passing it, my soul ached to me (in a good way), I sobbed bitterly!  I am grateful to the development team for this masterpiece!
1848) This game is amazing, from start to finish.,The story writing is like the best I've ever seen in a video game. Every single decision the developers made has a reason, every scene is valuable and it all adds up to make the player understand how the ellie and abby feel and what they are going through. Not to be rude but in my opinion , people who give this game a bad rating either didn't get the plott cause they are too dumb OR were just salty about joels death.
1849) Not as great as the first game in terms of story, although gameplay and graphics are better.
1850) I think the best way to kick this review off is to acknowledge that I understand how the majority of the audience for this game has been disappointed in the fashion that they have, and that of course each and every player is entitled to enjoy (or not enjoy) the content for their own reasons.,,The game is a masterpiece, and while the experience I was given was vastly different to the one I believed that I had coming, I still fell in love with the game. The game has a hugely emotional and challenging plot-line, beautiful visuals, graphics and character designs, an amazing musical score and soundtrack including sensational voice-acting, has huge nods and developments from the first installment, and what I believe can be overlooked at times, a huge play-through experience for a linearly based game. I don't think anyone can disagree with the points regarding the look and feel of the game, obviously most of what separates opinion can be found within the narrative decisions we experience.,,The tone of the game is dark, raw and brutal. The atmosphere of the game from start to finish is tense, uncomfortable and desperate, and the characters we follow reflect living in a world of these themes. Ellie and Abby are two sides of the same coin, and their character development is interlinked around their pathways of revenge for their loved ones, with both having huge sacrifice and pain along their journeys. We as the audience are thrust into this story of hatred and brutality by experiencing Abby as a character, and having our wants for vengeance denied.,This story is in stark contrast to the original TLOU, as we experience Ellie and Joel safe and their relationship intact at the conclusion, with seemingly the threat to this gone. In the TLOU Part II we have these same feelings of satisfaction for our characters crushed, but at the hands and actions of themselves.,Joel has done horrible things to many people in the world of the TLOU, as much is made clear by himself, he was a hunter and targeted innocents prior to TLOU's events. He expects his past to catch up with him, especially in reference to his hospital massacre, not only in the sense of those wanting to exact revenge, but in the form of Ellie uncovering the truth.,Abby's story is exactly that of Ellie's following the death of Joel; one of revenge. We see Abby throughout her younger years unable to let go of the death of her father, and purses this as Ellie does. Her father was a good man, and was killed unnecessarily, but she loses so many more people in her search for this vengeance.,Ellie loses a huge part of herself when she loses Joel, similarly to Abby and her father; their relationship had so much more growing to do. Her quest for revenge is untamed and visceral, and in the end Ellie comes barely to grips with herself that her killing Abby won't change what has happened, despite all of those she has killed before.,,The characters do not have a controlled focus behind their actions, they are operating off desperate and primitive measures. The story does not deliver to us what we wanted, and the story does not give those what we believe they deserve, but that does not make it a bad story.,I was crushed that Joel was murdered. I was disgusted that we had to sympathize with his Abby. I was left empty that we were denied Ellie's revenge. But I love that this game made me feel, and feel hurt. I loved every minute of this game and will need something truly special to be convinced anything is ahead of it.,I applaud Naughty Dog and all of those involved in the creation of this game, for taking a chance on their audience and giving us an experience to remember. The detail and intricacies within the game show me a level of respect and enjoyment the people developing it had, and I truly hope that the negative response initially received will not challenge their creative output in the future. I'm far from religious but 'if somehow the lord gave them a second chance at making this game, I would hope they do it all over again.'
1851) One of the most emotional experiences I have ever experienced in a game. This game really takes you on a ride.
1852) The last of us part 2 is not a perfect game, it has a few notable issues such as pacing in some areas, a couple of underdeveloped side characters, 1 or 2 small instances of plot armour, looting that isn't quite good enough for how much of it you do and somewhat wonky ally AI. I also understand why this game is so controversial and why a number of people really don't like this game, however, for me it has been one of the most affecting pieces of media that I have ever experienced. It is a game that is unafraid to take risks and do things that will make many players angry and uncomfortable. It also deals with the first games ending in a far more ground level, human way than most people expected and wanted, but I think that is what this series is all about and so I personally love it. This game is more about building dissonance between the player and its playable characters over time in order to get the player to question how well they ever even knew these characters in the first place. At times it has its characters do some awful things and sometimes even forces the player to press the buttons. This (hopefully) causes the player to feel disgusted, as they not only have to accept that the story this game is telling is not theirs, but the characters - but also become happy that this isn't their story. This is a game about the dark side of love, in contrast to the first game, and explores how this can cause tribalism, extreme violence and how it leads us to dehumanise others, resulting in endless cycles of war and hate, which I think is very prevalent after some of the events that transpired this year. But for me, this games most important themes were those of purpose and forgiveness. This game explores all the struggles of forgiving someone, but also the positive consequences that it can bring. It is also a game all about people who feel like they lack purpose latching onto anything they can to feel worth something and chasing that thread until it damn near kills them. Characters in this game become increasingly self destructive over time, and increasingly start making irrational but ultimately very human decisions as the game goes on. This can become frustrating but plays into that idea of dissonance and, for me at least, has a huge emotional pay off. The ending of this game is also a controversial one, but one that i think makes perfect sense when taken in the full context of the game and one that affected me very deeply which is why I love it. This ending, I believe, is also actually a more hopeful ending than the first games, despite appearing much more grim on the surface. This is a game that demands your full attention at all times and makes big asks of the player, with its hardest game being one that has to be played using your heart and not your controller, and it absolutely will not work for everyone, but if it does work for you then this game becomes surprisingly deep, and incredibly affecting piece that I don't think I will ever forget.,,As far as the gameplay is concerned, there are no huge leaps from the first game but a lot of small additions and improvements that really add up. Improvements to progression, AI, level design, enemy variety, game feel, mobility, stealth and enemy interactivity as well as the additions as prone, dodging and new craftables among other things really all work together to make an incredibly tense, scrappy gameplay experience quite unlike anything else out right now, and probably the best experience ive ever had with a TPS outside of MGSV and the 2 recent hitman games. Though there are a couple instances of small pacing issues where it felt like one style of gameplay was going on for too long, which does hamper things a tiny bit.,,Presentation wise this game is predictably incredible. In terms of raw graphics, this is almost certainly the best looking game ever, and even when taking art style into account its still right up there for me. The sound design is absolutely incredible and the music is insanely good. This game also has by far the best animations of any game ever and its not even close. The performances in this game may also be the best in any naughty dog game, which is an absolutely **** ridiculous feat.,,This games accessibility options are also so far ahead of any other game right now, and worthy of huge praise for just how many people will be able to comfortably play this game unassisted when usually that would be impossible.,,It's also worth mentioning the ridiculous amount of tiny details in this game that help bring the world to life. Botw and rdr2 have finally been surpassed and its incredible just how much work must have gone in to this game.,,Overall, the last of us part 2 is an easy 10 for me, being easily one of my favourite games of the gen and possibly even one of my favourites of all time. I still like the first game a little bit more overall, but for the right person this game is more worth your time than almost anything else out there.
1853) Honestly loved this game. There were a few slow bits, but that made up for what happened further on.
1854) God Bless Neil Druckmann and the whole team of Naughty Dog for this masterpiece and the most realistic experience
1855) I thought it was a good game the combat is amazing and it has a good story it was definitely worth the wait
1856) This is one of the most realistic game in the world. All mpcs are like real human.The story is good too.
1857) I Don't know how anyone can honestly say this is a "Bad" game... Is there a few plot holes? Yes. Like I don't think Abby would just all of a sudden decide to betray her comrade's.  But guess what ppl it's a video game made by Naughty  Dog... it's kind of the equivalent to a big budget action movie. And It is doNE really well... With some truly riviting and awesome sequence's. That are beautiful to watch.  I's the some pandering to this group or the other ? Yes. Are Abbys big arms a distraction?  Yes. But that doesn't take away from  the fact that its a great game that is highly entertaining.  BUY THIS GAME AND DON'T LISTEN TO THE HATERS.!!!
1858) So beautifully complex. Gorgeous visuals, entertaining gameplay, compelling characters. But alongside all that, the story is so devastating in an oddly satisfying way. New characters stories aren't the most compelling but they move the story along in a necessary direction to make the game as a whole so potent. LOVE this game. Also **** every nerd on here who hasn't played the game trying to review bomb.
1859) Brilliant and breathtaking! Play it for yourselves or watch the playthroughs. Dont just rely on the reviews. Most of them I bet have seen the leaks and are basing their judgements over that. play the game and you'll see the brilliant story, gameplay and absolutely stunning graphics this game has to offer. 10/10 for me
1860) Didn't think it could be better than TLoU Pt I...yet here we are. Amazing gameplay, story and music. A true hallmark of the medium and a watershed moment. Instant classic
1861) Amazing Game.,,When i was playing the game I did had in several times complex feelings and this is incredible.,,The Last Goty of Us!,,*I did cry some times
1862) Great game. Loved it more than the first installment. Great story. Lovely characters and great deaths
1863) One of the best stories told in gaming. The character development created a memorable experience.
1864) This game is awesome
1865) The game is fantastic. It will take you to a stage where right and wrong have a very thin line. Graphics are awesome, and the gameplay is damn realistic. Must play!!
1866) I didn't like that Joel died but i loved all the other things in the game.,It's just a masterpiece the story, the gameplay, the dialogue are soo good i know many people didn't like it and i love the first Tlou .
1867) A misunderstood game, The Last of Us II improves over the first game, not only ludically, but narratively, too. I genuinely love this game.
1868) Amazing game despite the ending. A great job from Naughty Dog! Hope to see the Part 3
1869) Not liking the events of a story does not mean that the story is bad. This game is the best thing I've ever had the pleasure of playing, fantastic in every way. It is courageous, complete, captivating, exciting, a piece of art ... A true milestone for the gaming industry and a lesson for other developers on how to create an AAA experience.
1870) Why this game is getting anything but a 10 is completely unknown to me.,This game on every conceivable level was an absolute joy. Whether it were the gameplay, story or graphics. Everything was honestly a pleasure and nothing less!,I doubt anyone will find this review hidden amidst the waves of mixed reviews but you do see this than please, pick this game up and try yourself! You’ll soon see the amount of pure effort put into this 10/10.
1871) It’s a challenging game on many fronts - don’t let the user review bombs sway you, this game is a masterpiece.
1872) An absolute masterpiece, full of internal conflict, harrowing gut wrenching emotional moments and the most wonderfully crafted story.,Truly a work of genius. It is so saddening that the gaming community is so childish and immature that they cannot see art and brilliance even when it is staring them in the face.,If you reading through the reviews. I'd ignore the negative ratings from people who either have not played the game or who don't have the intellectual or emotional depth to understand it.
1873) Truly one of my favourite pieces of art. The story does something that I think only a game could do. But if you aren’t able to empathise and humanise I can see how it wouldn’t land for you. Will be thinking about this game for a long time.
1874) The Last of Us Part II truly is a masterpiece of the modern era. The story is rich with realistic and quite believable moments, dialogue and interactions. A wonderful usage of tone, juxtaposition and structure work together to deliver the themes and ideas that the developers seek to portray, and create a heart wrenching story that will stick in the player's mind for some time to come.,The gameplay itself is greatly enjoyable, providing some of the most satisfying stealth one can find in any mainstream title. Although simple at it's core, the game still allows for a massive array of outcomes and choices to affect how encounters will unfold, leaving every little element of gameplay in the player's hand.,I highly recommend that, despite the mostly negative player reviews, you listen to the critics on this one. It truly is a fantastic work, blending art with entertainment to provide a mesmerizing experience.,The Last of Us Part II is not a game you can easily forget and will stand among the greatest titles of the PlayStation 4 era. A masterpiece in every sense of the word.
1875) My favorite game of the last half year. I don't understand people who condemned the game after watching several videos on YouTube.
1876) Gorgeous game, everything is at the highest level, graphics, plot, stage setting, gameplay, game for all times, thanks to naughty dog for another masterpiece.
1877) Amazing everything about the game is 10/10. Complex story. Animations, graphics. Just wow!
1878) Don’t play with prejudice, that will only hinder you enjoying this game, maybe the plot makes many people dissatisfied, but the gameplay is still incomparable. The production details in the game are still enough to nominated for GOTY.
1879) An emotional rollercoaster of a masterpiece! The developer should be commended for the brave choices they made with this sequels storyline. Went straight on to New Game + after completion.
1880) Talking with heiters this game, you - stupid conservative bastards, where in this game lgbt, only few girl kiss, but here be traditional sex,  its even don t close lgbt, Elli - lesbi, its just special part of game, she don t doing game worse of better, she just be how part of game
1881) Not matter what u read , seen or heard, nothing compares to playing the game from the start till the end. Amout of detailing in every aspect of this game is mind blowing! Playing with a open mind is a must while playing this game! True masterpiece
1882) This game is so sadly story,so dark,you must choose between hate and love,must play...
1883) Y'all obviously aren't playing the same game as me. I've never had a video game come in and gutpunched my emotions so many times in so many subtle (or overt) ways
1884) This is something else. Every enemy you kill matters and feels real. Thank you to Neil and his crew for delivering another masterpiece. Naughty Dog forever
1885) This game is just a masterpiece. The attention to detail is unreal. The hate this game gets is not deserved at all in my opinion. Loved the game, the creators of this game are genius...,,The Last Of Us games are the only games I´ve ever played that made me feel so many emotions during the gameplay. It´s amazing, give it a chance.
1886) A masterpiece that will age like fine wine, no game has even come close with this type of gutteral and challenging storytelling
1887) So played part of the first on ps3 then ps4 announced and Sony tried to get me to pay 60 for the same game so I did not finish. I'm hapoy I didn't  because it probably would've ruined part2.  The game starts off a little slow but eventually it ramps up and I found myself taking out people in groups in some insane ways. Ive finished off some npcs thinking "wow I just did that" or "thats fd up", or "wonder if I could do this"...i was ultimately left with brutal satisfaction of slaying everyone and everything. You eventually feel like you're in the world And you find yourself putting yourself in the characters shoes. I laughed at freaking jokes, diggers, one liners of npcs which is insane. They brought these characters to life, and at moments you forget that you're playing a  video game.  This game draws you in After the initial stages (about 1-2hrs in) the world is densely satisfying,  and playing this on a base ps4, the graphics were beyond belief.  I cant even imagine what next generation is going to look like.,A must play especially if youre new to the franchise. Enjoy the survival horror game you never knew you wanted but happy that these guys made.,I beat the game, so impressed
1888) The best game for ages! It was new experience, the best story, graphics and sound.
1889) Just a brilliantly realised game in every way. Beautiful graphics and animation, incredible storyline that totally subverts your expectations and will have you questioning your actions. This is a challenging game to play, and not in terms of gameplay (although it’s no walk in the park), but the story will take you to places you will find uncomfortable. This is a game about perspective and one that everyone needs to play. So, until you’ve actually  played it and understood it, don’t listen to the negative reviews...
1890) Mixed feelings throughout game, but incredible storytelling, and satisfied by the end of it.
1891) The story isn’t vague, bad or dissapointing. It’s a matter of perspective and the game tries to give both perspectives to the player so that the usual linearity of a video game is broken an renewed.
1892) Best game ever.,I was a pleasure to play this game,Great Story, Great Location
1893) One of the best games i’ve ever played in my entire life. Don’t let this low score affect your decision about the game without playing it. This game is one of the best cinematic experiences you will ever go through and it will rip you apart. It’s masterfully done in every way, and I feel so sorry for the people filled with unnecessary hate that will never get to experience the master piece that is this video game.  10/10 Will play again when I stop crying
1894) no matter how painful it was at the beginning, I liked it. I advise everyone to play this masterpiece
1895) A SAD story but,a true one,One of the Best Games of ps4.,Please play it is very intresting The emotions in this Game are so strong
1896) Exellent in all. Better than The First chapter. Great visual, music, characters, story.
1897) I don’t see why everyone is so upset with the game. There is valid criticism of the game, but everyone who is review bombing just because Ellie’s gay, Lev’s trans, and/or Joel died is pretty dumb. Yes, Joel died in a terrible way that he didn’t deserve, but that’s kind of the point. This is a post apocalyptic world for christ’s sake, a lot of people died in horrible ways. It’s a messed up world where messed up stuff happens to messed up people. Anyone upset that a character died is playing the wrong game. And Joel, Jessie, and Yara’s deaths being so sudden is really shows how unforgiving this world is. Also, the revenge plot didn’t bother me that much. It may be overly used, but I felt like Naughtydog put their own twist in it. Ellie’s one true fear is ending up alone. And her leaving Dina on the farm is pretty stupid, Ellie feels like she has no other choice. She can’t sleep, she can’t eat, she being constantly reminded and haunted by Seattle, and she feels like it’s going to effect JJ. In her mind, the only way to get everything back to normal is killing Abby. Rationally, the play knows that it won’t help anything, but Ellie isn’t being rational. She’s been traumatized and plagued with terrible thoughts. The one thing she could possibly do to stop it is kill Abby. At the end she doesn’t, which a lot of people are also upset about, but I really liked it. She thinks of Joel. She thinks of the years she hardly spoke to him after finding out the truth about the fireflies. She thinks o the big he before his death when they were finally going to start trying to better their relationship. She thinks of her decision to try to forgive him. But I think she also thinks of everything Joel has done. He hurt her. He basically killed all of the fireflies. So I think she understand Abby in that moment. They are one in the same. She was essentially trying to avenge her father’s death, just like Ellie was. So she let her go. And she ends up alone. And she loses the one thing that still connected her to Joel. Playing guitar. I think it’s perfectly tragic. With all the time and effort she spend trying to avenge him, she lost him. No one really deserved what happened to them, but that’s the whole point. This game left be emotionally broken for a really long time after I finished my first play through, but I feel a lot of what people are criticizing about the game was done very intentionally. So I’m probably biased, but I really liked the game, and I hope this community gets to a point where we can all have meaningful discussions without the hate. Because the game isn’t perfect, but I don’t think it deserves what’s happening to it.
1898) TLoU2 is by far one of the most impressive games I've ever played, both technically and narratively. The gameplay is fluid and brutal and a massive improvement on the predecessor. The visuals and attention to detail is constantly stunning. The openness of areas was fantastic and allowed multiple approaches to feel valid when engaging in combat whether it be stealth, all out ordinance, or a mixture of the two.,,The violence of the gameplay is gutwrenching, entirely by design. If it makes you feel uncomfortable then it's working as intended. The violence very much is designed to interweave and complement the plot of the story.,,----Spoilers ahead----,As many know at this point Joel is murdered brutally within the first few hours of the game by a character named Abby. This appears to be the most controversial aspect of the game because... reasons. But I personally found this to be narrative genius. This is a gutwrenching moment that the player is able to experience with as much raw hate and loss as Ellie. We want to track down this Abby person. We want Ellie to succeed in getting retributive justice. But as we play, we see the damage this violence is doing to her mental health. We see the pain and suffering imposed to those around her. We see the people we are killing have names, loved ones, friends. As we play staying alive, pushing on, our quest gets harder and harder, until it finally breaks both us and Ellie when she reaches her antagonist. Then the true narrative genius occurs (unfortunately by nature of spoilers and the internet the plot twist is undercut) but now we play as the villain we've all been hating up to this point. The game asks us to walk a mile in the shoes of our enemy. Wait she also has lost someone dear to her. Wait she also is just seeking justice. Wait am I the bad guy? Is Ellie the bad guy? Is Joel the bad guy? Wait I remember that person, that dog. I stabbed them in the neck and watched them bleed to death. **** they have friends and family. This is very much a social experiment that many will not be interested in or willing to approach. Many video games use guns, weapons, and violence as a gameplay mechanic to make something fun. TLOU uses it as a tool to push its story a long. They want us to question why we take joy out of this. I found Abby's storyline to be a very interesting character piece. Many seem to be turned off by the "randomness" of it with the introduction of the seraphites and Lev's storyline, but I found them incredibly important stories. For one, Abby's plotline is an exact foil to Ellie's. Rather than taking vengeance Abby begins to find empathy. She begins to understand the "other" are still people just doing what they think is right. That shades of grey exist in the world. Yes, she still commits acts of unspeakable violence/murder but in this world that is the status quo. Its kill or be killed, but nonethless she makes the choice to walk away from it. She has the opportunity to kill Ellie and Dinah, to take an eye for an eye, especially given that Dinah is pregnant, just like Mel was. But in that moment she stops. She remembers the emptiness, the bitter nothingness killing Joel brought her. An eye for an eye only makes the world go blind. So she spares them. The game finally ends exploring how Ellie remains traumatized and broken by everything that has happened. We have to remember this is someone who has only ever experienced violence and a fungal apocalypse. She has mental illness both visually apparent and explicitly mentioned in her notes. She is not capable of making rational decisions and thus goes after Abby again, but this time finds a beaten, empty husk of the person she hated who has been exposed to months of torture by a gang of sex traffickers (?) in California. The ending is a grotesquely beautiful mixture of cinematic gameplay that leaves you as a player resenting yourself being behind the controller only for at the final moments for Ellie to finally come to terms with what she has done and what she is doing, what Abby and the players learned along the way. As Ellie sees her reflection in the water (ironically enough Abby's submerged head) Ellie realizes this isn't the way. That killing Abby will not solve her problems. It's a bittersweet ending that at a glance may feel meaningless, but the emotional takeaway, the realization of the damage both of these women experienced is a compelling look at human weakness and growth.,,This game is not for everyone. If you cannot stomach explicit violence or are unwilling to look at what is intended to be a piece of art with a critical yet objective eye you will not enjoy this game. Treat TLOU2 like a bittersweet oscar film, one that isn't meant to have a happy ending, but is meant to be an interrogative look at the human condition in all its ugliness. In that effort I think TLOU2 is a masterpiece
1899) Graphics, gameplay, audio  and history remembered as one of the top 10 of this generation.
1900) THIS GAME IS NOT A REVENGE STORY!,Yes it may seem that way but the story is really about learning to let go even though it hurts. In the end, Ellie made the difficult choice that Joel should’ve made in the first game and made peace with death. Not her death but the death of the one she loved most, Joel. If Joel would’ve let Ellie be the cure for mankind then he wouldn’t have to worry about vengeful people out to get him. What Joel did instead was compromise the lives of everyone to save the person he loves which is Ellie. His actions were understandable but morally gray at best and in this game Ellie has to deal with what happened to Joel, why it happened, and not only forgive Joel but let Abby go even though it hurts.
1901) Simply my favourite game. 10/10 for me. Fell in love with the game. I love how to game writers made me feel like I was in the shoes of Ellie. I found it extremely fun playing this entire game and exploring everything. Would I replay the game? Yes in a heartbeat!
1902) Best game I have ever play, seriously its amazing! The history, the playability, the details, the characters...it’s just massive!
1903) This game totally worked for me. The story is exciting and just adding the dodging and crawl mechanics were enough to change the gameplay completely and make it very exciting and immersive. I love the last of us 1 and the second one was just as good if not better! It’s a gut-wrenching story but pretty great once you get over “yunno”.
1904) I completed this game roughly 22 hours after release, playing two long sittings. I am now finding it difficult to enjoy any other story-driven game since completing this. Everything about this game is so far beyond the rest of the industry; from the complexity, non-linearity and depth in story-telling and dialogue, to the graphical achievments including quite honestly, the most accurate animation and physics in any video game I've seen.,,The story feels more mature than the first game, mirrored by the beautiful soundtrack by Gustavo Santaolalla, and further expands upon the world of The Last of Us whilst still tethering itself to the narrative and characters of the first game by continuing the story of Ellie and Joel, now residing in a settlement in Jackson after the ambigious ending of its predecessor. The timeline begins roughly 4 years after the first game, but due to its non-linear format, we jump around events amongst that 4 year period, discovering more details about the character relationships as well as the world in general. The story is bleak and grounded in the reality of human behaviour. It is far more effective at conveying the complexities of emotion than even the first game with the use of detailed journal entries throughout, and fantastic performances specifically from Ashley Johnson (Ellie) and Shannon Woodward (Dina).,,The gameplay is based on the same style as the first game, with major improvements in movement and an incedibly enjoyable combat system, alongside updated crafting systems that allow for far more creative approaches to stealth and fighting. The puzzle solving aspect of the first is slightly more subtly implemented and is more often than not tied to exploration than story progression -  eg. breaking a window to gain access to an area with a lootable code used to crack a safe, or to find and collect one of the many trading cards.,,The plot holes I have seen many state are either completely non-existent or only visible under the microscope of those weighing this game to an unfair and hypocritically higher standard than almost any piece of media I have ever heard or seen. I utterly despise unnatural, heavy-handed writing - to the point of labelling myself pretentious in my consumption of entertainment - yet at no point did I feel anything being forced in my face during this game. "This character would never have done this or that" arguments can be absolved by simple fact that - between the first game and this one - everything is there that says entirely differently.,,The only criticism I have is that I feel some of the gameplay sections in the second third of the game could have been shortened, possibly removed, and the cutscenes would have sufficed.,,Recommendations before playing Part II:,,- Play the first game,- Play Left Behind DLC,- Watch the 'Grounded: The Making of The Last of Us' documentary (on YouTube),- Try to play Part II as soon as possible after finishing those three.,- Drop your expectations of how you want Part II's story to go and experience it as 'this is the events that occurred' instead of battling with 'how it should've been'.,,Quite frankly, I find it hard to give the game anything but 10/10 because I cannot think of a single game that comes remotely close to this level of story-telling and all round impressiveness. This is a must-play if you like entertainment and video games driven by good stories, because this one's by far the most affecting experience in a game I've ever had.
1905) Amazing game through n’ through from the sound design to the gameplay I’ve never experienced something as harrowing and brilliant as this game
1906) I really liked it, sure I wasn’t a fan of joke dying, but I understand why it happened and saw it was made perfectly
1907) Great game in all its aspects. In my opinion, the story is good, and its something i've never seen before, leaving me emotionally devastated tbh. The only reason im not giving it a 10/10 is because of some pacing problems in certain points of the story. No, its not as good as the first one, but its an excellent game.
1908) Game of the year
1909) If this was a Movie people who did not enjoy it would just say, it’s too dark, it’s not for me, it’s too “out there” and detached from the familiar story structures  they have come to be conditioned into. This is not for everyone, it’s not the walking dead or a Marvel movie, which I feel is what some people use as a base for character analysis. Making a game this different, that plays with your emotions and expectations constantly: Jesus, that’s a lot...can’t say I’dev done different...take it to the grave if I have to.
1910) The game truly  did beat my expectations,  the story was deep and heart pulling as well as angering and enraging but i loved the ride. Solid game play and stunning graphics . Loved it ! Hope they do a MP
1911) Probably the best game ever. I'm 31 years old and I have played many games in my life, and for 11 years I have not been so passionate about a videogame. Thank you, ND.
1912) I've gone through quite a few hundred games over the last decade and a half and i can say this wholeheartedly, the greatest masterpiece to ever graze a console. It's a shame the gaming community cant acknowledge the greatness of it due to unfounded butthurtedness. Play it, enjoy it, remember it.,,I hope one day ill be able to play this with my future kids.
1913) Fantastic game. Gameplay, graphics, sound, all at the highest level of quality. But the best part of the game is the story, the best I've ever played.
1914) Indepth review of the last of us 2, tdlr at the bottom. The last of us part 2 is one of the unique games I've ever played. I am a massive fan of the first game, and I have played it several times until the second game was released. I spent countless hours before the games release watching videos about theories and speculations in the 2nd game, but my experience was completely different from what I had imagined. The performances from the actors were phenomenal, and the raw violence of every person Ellie murdered felt uncomfortable and animalistic. Ellie's journey of vengeance is eye candy for a psychology nerd like me, and Ellie’s troubled relationship with Joel showcased throughout the story made her revenge a Tale more intriguing. At the climax of the game, when Ellie was choking Abby, the Deuteragonist/antagonist of the story, was an emotional moment that personally affected me. Ellie's external hate towards Abby foiled with my internal hatred, as I try to forgive myself from the damage done by my depression. The game ultimately told a tale of forgiveness, and the cycle of revenge continues until one must break the chain, which often feels unsatisfied but necessary. Abby could have learned to forgive Joel, but her selfishness and failure for acceptance led to the degeneration of her social relationships and her physical body. Ellie was capable of forgiving people for their actions, as she forgave Joel for lying to her about the fireflies, and Abby, who killed her surrogate father out of blind retribution. Playing as Abby in the latter half of the story was difficult as first, as I had grown to despise her for murdering Joel, and later Jesse at the theater. But, I softened up for Abby as she protected Lev and Yara, as they were outclassed by the seraphites because Lev’s internal conflict with his gender identity, and his longing to become a brave soldier. Abby abandoned the WLF to protect Lev and becomes like a mother to him. I began to feel empathy for both characters, as they had motivations to protect others and survive. No one is good or bad in the last of us, instead, a million shades of gray. Joel slaughtered firefly doctors, and soldiers do save Ellie, who grew onto him as his daughter. Abby, who initially battled in a purposeless war with the seraphites, abandoned her old life to protect a young boy. Ellie, who despised Joel after lying to her, and a woman who took away that chance to make amends with her father, eventually learned to forgive them. Ellie is still like her younger self; she is capable of forgiveness, a non-emotion-existent in this world. Tdlr:,The last of us part 2 left me feeling empty, saddened, but hopeful and bliss, as Ellie now can try to rebuild her life and make amends with her past. There are some minor flaws with pacing and that one sex scene, but the game left me wondering what happens after the credits? The relationships between characters felt real and emotional, and the story of revenge masquerades a tale of forgiveness.
1915) I'm giving this game a 10. I thought a lot about the games I played over the last ~35 years and this is clearly one that belongs in the pantheon of greats. Like its predecessor, The Last of Us Part II not only pushes forward the boundaries of what is possible in game design, but leaves a veritable ocean of clear water between itself and other titles. Naughty Dog aren't in their own league, they're in their own universe.,,On display is cinema-grade scripting and performance. The game delivers characters that are meaningful and resonate emotionally. The gameplay is slick and polished, while the combat feels heavy and consequential in a way few games come close to matching. Everything is wrapped-up in an industry-leading presentation, with graphics, visual design, and sound that will leave your jaw on the floor. The content provided is incredibly generous for a narrative experience—with even a quick first play-through lasting around 25 hours (mine was over 32 hours).,,The plot has come in for some particular—and wholly unjustified—criticism. At this level of storytelling characters are conflicted and not all plot threads lead to a happy end. The very plot devices that have been criticised by others can be found in some of the greatest works of literature ever produced.,,In the end, I think people will eventually come to view TLoU2 in a similar light to Empire Strikes Back. Yes, it's the "slower, more philosophical one with an open ending", but once the trilogy is complete everyone will understand that this is where the real meat of narrative arc lies.
1916) The best game I’ve ever played. Perfect plot, perfect characters and a perfect game. Thanks Naughty Dog, U R the best!
1917) I can only conclude that most negative reviews are because of an expectation vs reality factor. People wanted Ellie & Joel part 2 and they were given something very different. If you sit deep in your expectations and refuse to go with the story then you will ultimately have a disappointing experience, but if you are open to being led wherever the story needs to go then this game is the most compelling and satisfying experience that you can have with a videogame. This game is better than the first in almost every way. Graphics, music, storytelling, acting are all superb. But the true brilliance is the way in which Naughty Dog challenge the good guy/bad guy convention of videogames. In TLOU2, just as in real life, there are no good and no bad guys, there are simply people doing what they need to do to make it through. The switch from Ellie to Abby means that we are invested in both characters and the final fight - being asked to pummel a character you deeply care about - is emotionally tough. I have never been asked to do something in a videogame that I have not wanted to do. It was an incredible experience and well earned.,,I wonder whether it is this close-to-life experience that people did not like. Gamers are used to breaking from reality and escaping into very black and white worlds and perhaps it is what they need to make it through the sometimes bleakness of the real world. But I appreciate this game all the more for taking a risk and challenge convention. I applaud Naughty Dog for the direction in which they have taken the game. It would have been very easy to simply do Joel and Ellie again with better weapons and new enemies - the common fare for most video game sequels. They haven't. They have created something far more interesting and complex. The characters have evolved and grown and we are asked, just as we were with the first game, to think and question.,,I can only hope that a third is on the way. And to those who feel let down, I wonder whether with time and distance and expectation abated, you may revisit this and find the game to be the truly remarkable masterpiece that I do.
1918) Best game I’ve ever played. Pushes the medium so far forward in every department. It’s hard to go back to anything else after this. 11/10 if I could
1919) The message from this game is so strong, you can feel it at every corner, every scene, i´t is another level for games, a landmark for sure. Makes all the other games a joke. I´ve been feeling sad and depressed for three days now after I finished it. Don´t listen to the people hating the game, play it for yourself. No one should tell you what you supposed to like.
1920) I really enjoyed every second in the game game play and story as one of the best. ND kill it. doesn’t matter what ppl are saying because the game one of the best videogame u will play
1921) This game is so damn good.  The story is so much more in depth than the first game.  This game is ridiculously beautiful, the situations and the way things play out are so realistic.  It’s an emotional journey, loved it so much.
1922) Holy freaking... wow!  I just finished the game and what a rollercoaster of a journey.  The graphics, the score, the story, the acting, the gameplay, the character development... everything is 10 out of 10 out of 10 out of 10.   I think this one even just replaced the first game as my all-time favorite.,,Thank you to everyone at Naughty Dog for this!!!  TLOU2 was truly Masterclass and I'm ready to empty my bank account if you promise me more of this.  What you accomplished here was a remarkable feat.  Please, do it again!!
1923) A masterpiece. I've never felt so emotional like this when playing games. The way Naughty Dog tell the story is absolutely brilliant. On chapter one after "the incident" happened, I was shocked and put down the controller. Staring at my TV screen for a couple minutes. I could feel what the main character felt. And on the last battle, I really don't want to press the square button. It's a conflict! I was so invested with the story. It's never happened before. The story has Oscar winning quality. Wow! Definitely gonna win Game of fhe Year.
1924) Despite the totally negative childish criticism that I disagree ... Game is very good with the graphics that is indisputable The story .... Which shows the side of Ellie and Abby All the why, why they are so and so such ... Summary .. the story of this game is very sad.  Play the game, rate it and then give your opinions ... Don't go with others!
1925) The most fully realized piece of art in the medium-- beautiful/grotesque illustration of the genesis of conflict/moral dilemma. If you don't like the game, it's because you want a story in which a highly skilled man overcomes unbelievable odds by sheer force of will, i.e., every other video game that's ever been written.
1926) The Last of Us 2 is a game of frantic violence and a the quest for revenge. The moment the player gets that sinking feeling of sadness and despair, they now become Ellie and all of the conflicting feelings the player experience the rest of the way. A feat like this is extremely rare in gaming. A huge kudos to Naughty Dog and everyone involved. If you played this game and weren’t satisfied I say this. You may have played and beat the game, but you failed to beat the game that naughty dog played with your soul.
1927) I manged to avoid all spoilers for this game and I am so glad I did. Wow, Naughty dog deserve a round of applause and awards for this triumph!,Visually this game is stunning. Everything from the level design to character redevelopment is just fantastic. The story was phenominal in every way possible. It was in my opinion the perfect sequal. I have never felt so overwhelmed and exhausted (in a good way) playing a game before. I was so heartbroken and angry when Joel died. Felt so betrayed and felt myself shaking my head at Ellie choosing revenge over Dina and JJ. I found myself disagreeing with Ellies choices and disliking her, a character I had held so close to my heart, someone I saw so much of myself in. I felt sympathy and love for abby and wishing for neither to die at the hand of the other. The only criticism I have is the open ending. I feel so much more could be explored in this world so much more of Ellies and Abbys journeys have been left untold. Please Naughty dog please make a third installment. Please!!!!,Also can I just express how proud I am of naughty dog for accurately representing the lgbtq community, I felt seen by you and I am sure so many other players will feel the same.
1928) The best game!..............................................................
1929) I loved this game from the beginning until the very end. The storyline is pretty impressive and the whole experience is like an emotional roller coaster. I admire game developers for representing LGBT in a such deep way - not just showing one kiss or something but actually letting us see the dynamic between two characters at different stages of their relationship. My heart was broken so many times but that's what makes the game experience a REAL thing. I really hope that there is going to be part III.
1930) Loved it. Don’t listen to that hate. People are whiny **** Went in with an open mind and finished the game completely satisfied.
1931) Truly a masterpiece that leaves you on an emotional rollercoaster. Be open minded and see things from different perspectives, you will love it.
1932) This is the best game I've ever played.The graphic was amazing and stunning.I understand why some people hate this game but I've give my very honest rating!!! This game is really Awesome and have a great storylines! Just play this game with honest and yourself you can understand the storyline because they already show us a great storyline!! those people who don't understand the story or hate this game I think u guys have some problem.This game don't deserve bad rating until 0 and don't listen to the haters.Another masterpiece from Naughty Dog.
1933) This game is a piece of art. It's sad to see so many small-minded people get angry for certain plot points or the fact that women play a large role in this game. Gender or sexuality is not important, but the fact that the game is awesome is all that matters. Great continuation of the first game, truly a masterpiece.
1934) Great, most reviewed game ever! Really enjoyed the ride. Can't wait for part 3
1935) Amazing game. Had me on the edge of my seat the whole time. People review bombing this game without even playing it are ridiculous. Great game. Check it out for yourself.
1936) This is a honest review.,I've only finished the game a month after its release and I'm blown away. Since the end of the first game I always wondered which consequences awaited our beloved Joel and I honestly you've hated if he faced none, no matter how much he meant for gamers.,The idea of making us play with the game's "antagonist" was brilliant. By the end of it I can say that Abby and her crew were my favourite part  of the game. The writing and cast storytelling it's nothing but perfection. People like me who get to watch a lot of movies, read a lot of books and of course, play as many games as you can, we get to a point where a generic storytelling can ruin the whole experience. This game it's a step above, it's one of those that haters will look at in 10 years time and wish they weren't that stupid, same today we know about the hate The Empire Strikes Back faced on its release, and many other examples.,The creators managed to create a 30+ memorable cast, locations and sequences. They all look simple and straightforward, complex but not complicated, the right mix to make something unforgettable.,I haven't even mentioned the game itself, it's mechanics. It has the best "awareness indicator" I've seen to date. You can customise it to your liking. I personally had the game's main core on survivor but my allies on very light, which made them very helpful. I played the game the way I wanted.,I have 2 complaints ; firstly, your character tends to get into areas where they don't know if there's an exit. And secondly, in some wide areas, enemies there are just over a fence fail the listen the gunshots from your current battle, that's all I have to complain about the game.
1937) Absolutely beautiful game in every aspect. Same engaging gameplay from the first title with some minor additions and changes. The writing is grippingly intricate and poignant; presenting a deep look into the lives, humanities and motivations of a diverse cast of characters struggling to survive and to do what they think is right. Major themes of revenge, forgiveness, xenophobia, and how we honour people we've lost are all touchingly illustrated with resonant metaphors that rival literary classics from authors like Hemmingway or Austen. Everything about the technical presentation from graphics to sound design to lighting to score, et cetera are all fantastic. My only hesitation about giving it a 10 is the lack of the Factions MP from the first game, but Naughty Dog has stated that they intend to release it separately.  If you liked the first game and you're not some chud loser who cries about lgbt+ representation in media, you'll love this one too.
1938) This is the best game I have ever played and that's saying a lot. I'm an avid gamer but The Last of Us II breaks the mold and pushes gaming into the future. With all of the hype I was prepared to be disappointed but, to my great and pleasant surprise, it was a better game than I ever could have hoped. Thank you, Naughty Dog, for leading the way and showing other game developers how it's done.
1939) What a game.. what an experience.. An emotional roller coaster all over. Freaking awesome. Bloody brilliant. A masterpiece. Waiting for LOU3
1940) I really loved the direction they took the story. It was a totally unseen approach with some amazing writing. Truly on of the best in gaming stories. I might even say on par or even better than the first. The ending came together very well that it grabbed me and my friends on an emotional level.,,As for game-play: very enjoyable. Improved on the first game. The graphics are one of the best on this console generation. And the performance of the actors is superb. Excellent work.,,There are many fake reviews which is very unfortunate. I hope Naughtydog keeps on making stories THEY want to tell. Not the mainstream audience. Please don't spoil the story for your self, but experience it and give it a chance.
1941) This game really moved me emotionally. I love the story and was able to empathize with all the main characters. The gameplay and graphics are amazing as well. But what amazed me the most is the attention to detail the developers have put into this game. I have finished this game two weeks ago and can't stop thinking about it.
1942) The best story i have ever experienced.,There is nothing that gets closer to this game.,It is a masterpiece.,It takes a art view, it not tries to deliver something to please the audience, and nailed it.,The minds behind this work of art did not chose the easy way, but the hardest possible.,People that are complaining didn't play or don't have heart/feelings.
1943) A game ahead of its time in a lot of aspects - it's not a video game in a traditional sense, especially from story telling and character building so I can understand the criticism. But to me, one has to be really open-minded to see the true beauty of it.
1944) Can absolutely understand why the narrative bothers a lot of people but for me, I enjoyed it for challenging me in a way never done by any game other than maybe Red Dead II. Combat encounters are fun and engaging and the graphics are just absolutely stunning, some of the best in gaming today (although Ghost of Tsushima’s environments are giving it a run for its money). GOTY so far!
1945) I think people review bombing the game aren’t looking at the full scope, or maybe haven’t even completed the game. I personally loved the first game and the second was better in the gameplay and graphics department obviously, but I also though the story was equally as strong.
1946) The best games I've played for years for two main reasons.,Firstly, the story is deep and complex and draws you in, making you feel emotions and develop opinions, only to completely change your mind. The way that the story twists and turns as well as the topics covered, really helps make the story feel real.,Secondly, the game mechanics are amazing, and even develop throughout the game. The way sound echoes in different environments, ice cracks when you walk across it and how snow falls from the trees as you brush past them results in one of the most immersive game experiences I've ever had (I recommend playing with headphones). The puzzle based mechanics are also fantastic, but don't get overused, for example, early in the game they introduce a cable puzzle (with great rope physics), but this is only used a few times, so if doesn't get boring and throughout the game more of these kind of mechanics are introduced.,I very rarely play games not than one, but I'm already thinking about another playthrough if this excellent game.
1947) You don't have to like it to acknowledge it looks incredible, plays great, and has a complicated, nuanced story. Even if you hated the story, there's no denying this game has pushed video games forward into a era.
1948) To be honest I never played game like this. The story twist just blow me away. I don't even talk about graphics and small details. DO NOT PAY ATTENTION TO BAD REVIEWS BUY THIS GAME AND YOU WON'T REGRET IT!!! THE MOST PART OF REVIEWERS WHO GAVE 0 DIDN'T EVEN PLAY THIS GAME. THAT IS EMBARRASSING.
1949) Don't listen to idiots who haven't played the game. Make up your own mind, play it for yourself.
1950) Loved the game. Excellent story. Amazing visuals. I was pulled in right away and I honestly dont understand the hate towards the game. Story 10/10 characters 10/10 visuals 10/10,By the end of the game I was hoping the next one will feature abby . I'm excited about the possibilities of where this story can go. Team abby!
1951) Best game ever even with a disappointing ending though.must be played to understand the ending very clearly
1952) I'd been waiting this game for 7 years. It teach players understand that there are not  dark and light. One revenge awekens a circle of revenge. Its closed circle.,I fell in love. The best game of our days. I have been waiting the new part. Thank you for my emotions.
1953) Best game ever. Extremely inmersive and detailed All aspects of the game are made to tell a story.
1954) Masterpiece. It's not just the continue from the first one. This game represents an experience of empathy with a sensational way. Do good to yourself and play it with an open mind and don't sentimentalize yourself by your feelings.
1955) This is the greatest game I've ever played. The experience is akin to reading The Road by Cormac McCarthy and feels both bleak and beautiful at the same time. The only thing that disappointed me was the reception of this game. I feel that the community has let down the developers, not the other way around. I hope that someday this game receives enough positive reviews for the score to truly reflect the quality and beauty of the game. Thank you to anyone who worked on this project.
1956) Such a thrilling game! I have to admit the first 3 hours were disappointing. But the story evolves from hour to hour and kept myself super excited. The story itself is in my opinion a masterpiece. The change of perspectives from victim to murder (?) is implemented in such a good way that you will find your peace with the end of the game. People who discriminate the story and the characters have not understood anything at all. I just finished the game and I can say that I‘ve never been caught in a game that much. I also have to admit that I never played a game as brutal as this one before. But somehow it makes sense to emphasize the feelings of the characters. And of course yes - the graphics on PS4 are insane!
1957) Best game I've played in years, totally immersive story, terrifying, absolute loved it. Playing this because I loved the first game but this takes it to a whole new level in terms of playability, variation situations and just all round imagination. Oh and obviously ignore the sad sack incels giving it zero.
1958) Any rating under 9/10 is a non-sense. And consider even that as underrated.,From gameplay, to graphics and story, attention to details, everything is top notch. I wandered how can the ps4 even handle something as this! Drop any prejudice and enjoy this masterpiece!
1959) Very good gaming experience! It is better than the first one in terms of gaming but the bond between characters and the climax is less intense.
1960) This game is quite good, the graphics and gameplay are amazing. The story could have been better, but overall was pretty **** good.
1961) An evolution in plot & graphics, Naughty Dog is one of the bravest developers now a days, they play with us in an emotionally ride and i’m excited to play the third installment, no matter what you hear about this game, you need to play it by yourself.
1962) Between the story line, graphics, music, and endearing moments, I played this game non stop for 4 days. Hopefully they came out with a 3rd and continue the endings.
1963) Absolutely brilliant game.  Thoroughly playable from day one, being unfairly hammered on this site by folk with an agenda.
1964) The best game I have ever played. Ever element of polish and ambition comes through, and every bit of the review bombing displays the beautiful immaturity of gamers.
1965) Life altering. Breathtaking visuals, audio and gameplay with an incredible deeply layered emotional story.
1966) Loved this game. Technical masterpiece with the best animations and NPC AI of any modern game. Naught Dog has always been great with character animations and this is the best thing they've done so far. If like me you came into the game without knowing most of the spoilers and an open mind, you will really enjoy the roller coaster story this game puts you on.,,My only issue with the game is with the level design can sometimes be confusing and can hurt the story pacing when you spend 5-10 minutes looking for where to go. That might bring it to a 9.5 for me but it didn't bother me enough to warrant rounding down to a 9.
1967) I have no words to describe how good this game is.  Incredible graphics, fluid and immersive gameplay, an exciting story to cry from beginning to end, in addition to featuring one of the best characters in the gaming world, Abby.
1968) One of the best games ever made! Game play, Graphics, Story. Every aspect is simply amazing!!!
1969) I was like everyone else in the beginning,  thinking this game was garbage for killing off such an important  character.  I never read the leaks, but knew how the mob felt about it and kept my expectations super low. But after playing it, this game is a goddamn masterpiece. Afterwards I watched some of my favorite youtubers and see what everyone else though and honestly Girlfriend Reviews whad a video that was spot on. If you havent watch it please watch.
1970) Truly went above and beyond what they already managed to do in part 1. A juxtaposing story on two people getting revenge for the killing of a loved one. I loved these characters. Everyone gives a stellar performance. It's honestly a triumphant game which so many people have dismissed because of the death of a major character. The world of the Last of Us is a grim, unrelenting one and the death is brutal and without remorse but that doesn't mean that character becomes any less important. Their presence is felt through the story in the lessons imparted by them.Abby is such a complex and faceted character, and a wonderful foil to Ellie. I loved playing her sections of the game and I can't wait to replay the game (and hope for a continuation in the future)
1971) EDIT: Ok, so I finished the game, and decided to change my rating from a 9 to a 10. I had some complaints about the menus and the HUD, at first, but then I later learned that I could resolve those issues with the more obscure "Accessibility" settings. Also, the first game has one of my all-time favorite stories in video games, but I might like the second game's story even more. So emotional and so well done. I heard spoilers before I played the game, but some of the spoilers were inaccurate. Most of the complaints against those spoilers were motivated by bigotry, which is kind of funny now that the spoilers have been discredited. For example, I heard that Abby was a transgender person transitioning from female to male. Nope, she is just muscular and badass, which fits her setting and story exceptionally well. I never liked femme fatales, anyway. They aren't believable. Abby is very believable. Have an open mind. Play this game.,,I just want to add my voice to those who are calling out the review-bombers, while being as vague as I possibly can be. It's true, this game is great and it's being attacked by triggered snowflakes. I don't feel the need to talk about gameplay too much, really. Did you like the first one? You'll like this one, then. There are significantly bigger battle arenas, more stealth techniques, etc. Think of Halo 1 vs. Halo 2. Halo 1 was innovative, while 2 didn't innovate so much. Instead, it refined and amped up the style of the first one. Anyway, what I really want to talk about is the "politics" surrounding it.,,Some of the major themes behind the original story include things like healthy and unhealthy ways of coping with loss, dealing with difficult truths, and the subversion of expectations. That is exactly what people are getting with this story and these characters as well. The same things that made the ending of the first game such a gut-punch are all here to punch you in the gut again. Sorry, the game doesn't follow some formulaic, Marvel-style character arc. Some people find that **** boring. Sorry that some characters that you probably love are going to get **** on by newer characters. What did you expect from a sequel? A ten-hour campaign about how everything is going great for everybody? It's a game about a **** zombie apocalypse. Things get rough, LIKE THE FIRST GAME. This game isn't going to hold your hand through a cookie-cutter adventure. Like the first game, it will challenge your sense of what should be and what should not be.,,Maybe you are uncomfortable with certain character traits that could possibly be considered "PC" by an "SJW?" Well, guess what? Whether you like it or not, those kinds of people exist. They are human, and they can have compelling motivations. Maybe you don't like the fact that they exist? Too bad, because they do. I'm sorry that you don't want to empathize with a type of human whose existence slightly disrupts your worldview. But really, it would be healthy for you to try to empathize, regardless of your personal beliefs. In the first game, I didn't like the existence of the fungus zombies, the cannibals, or Joel's choice at the end. But that stuff is there and you just have to learn to deal with it if you want to play the game. But it's those types of things that made the story/characters so compelling and memorable. The second game also forces you to face more hard truths about what morality is and what happens when there is a lack of it.,,I haven't even finished the game, and there have already been three separate cutscenes that made me choke up a bit. I don't do that too much. Even the positive reviews I have seen have complained about the "lack of character development." They either don't know what it is or have no heart/soul. Surely what they mean to say is, "I don't like the way the characters developed." Because character development is definitely there, and it is done well. I can see why people may not like certain plot points, but from an objective perspective, this is good art. This is a great example of video games as an effective and meaningful storytelling tool. On top of that, it's just a really great game to play.
1972) One of the best game that I played ever. The ending is so touching, gonna to play this again.
1973) Everyone was expecting a light hearted game filled with moments of Ellie's and Joel's interactions. In a world like this, it would be highly unrealistic. This game carries mature and heavy themes, so it is understandable why it wasn't made for everyone. For those pressed about what happens in the beginning that sets the plot for the rest of the game- how else would you have told this story? Naughty Dog acknowledges the brutality of killing off this loved character, and wants the audience to feel just like Ellie- someone who just lost their father. Others are mad at the "poor writing", but the four complex timelines the game carries is highly difficult and ballsy to pull off. Having to "walk a mile" for the character you truly hate has the purpose to really test the player's bias and morals. The ending did trigger many people- a plot of revenge doesn't end in revenge. But what about the first game? The plot of "saving humanity" didn't end in that. Plot and stories are different. Plot: finding the cure of humanity, story: relationship between Ellie and Joel. Plot: revenge, story: grief and forgiveness. If you walk away still wanting Abby dead, you may have completed the game but not with your soul. Yes this game is emotionally draining, but it reflects the sad truth about our reality- how unstructured and animal-like society would become in a world like this.
1974) Best story on Playstation to date :) i think they made a better story from the first game with more character building than i expected  10/10
1975) this game is such a masterpiece .  the story  the environment the chars everything is just 10/10  100% goty.
1976) Just finished TLOU2 and I want to thank Neil Druckmann so much. It is everything I hoped and so much more. The ending is perfect. Thank you, thank you, thank you!
1977) This game is heartbreaking. And at the same time it is hauntingly beautiful. It is a game that you don't just play, and leap on to the next game in your backlog. It's a game that you'll play and that you'll keep thinking about afterwards. Don't go looking for spoilers, and go in open minded. A strong contender for game of the generation in my case.
1978) I’ve been gaming since 1998, and I’ve got to say, this is the single greatest game I have EVER played. The graphics, the gameplay, the fluidity of animations, the polish, the storytelling, and the emotional impact are second to none. Might be too dark and emotionally heavy for some of y'all (made my cry like a lil **** and made me wanna stare out a window on a rainy day for hours), but it’s an experience I will forever recommend, and one I believe every gamer should play in their lifetime. It’s a next-gen game on a 7 year old piece of hardware. I think it’s worth mentioning that I’m a big horror fan, and the reason why I couldn’t give the first TLOU a perfect score is because for something that was described to me as a survival horror, there really wasn’t much horror. But this one has levels that rank near the top of my list for scariest gaming moments in gaming, and I’ve played damn near all of ‘em. Major props, Naughty Dog, y’all don’t miss.
1979) So, the huge amount of zeroes are basically this, bu bu, they kill Joel, bu bu, they make me play with Abby, bu bu, I don’t get revenge. If you are still a teenager then it´s understandable, your stupidity is justify as your brain is still underdeveloped, but if you are already in your 20s, grow up for god sake, life is not always as you want it, things not always go as you expect, and all in all is very much full of sh**. That been said, the game is a masterpiece, great mature story and characters developement, solid and satisfying gameplay even thou it doesn’t innovate, amazing world, graphics and music. If you like happy endings this game is not for you, and that is ok, just don’t trash over the game because of that, there are tons of good games with happy ending, go pick one.
1980) It's difficult to express how good this game is, but you could almost read any negative reviews as it's opposite and see the real truth of the game. It has had such a profound effect on people that they can't forgive it the emotional states it brought upon them.,It's a great story that subverts expectation and tropes. And it takes the ultimate decision the player is used to making, and gives them to the characters. I believe this specifically is what people hated the most, they came along for the journey and didn't get to decide how that went.,I think they forget this was the same in game 1, just less obvious. The main example is how the ending of the first game is just not what I would have d chosen if I had the choice which is funny in how it relates directly to the second game. It was hotels coffees I made, as this game is about Ellie's choices and Abbey's choices. I highly recommend it.
1981) Loved the game nd fkn did it again, ppl are mad bc joel died, so? Yes i loved him but that doesn't excuse his actions he killed hundreds prob even thousands of good and bad ppl, there were maybe 2 or 3 things i didn't like but the ending was sad, depressing, and a feeling of misery which i loved
1982) For me this was just a 10/10 perfect game. So very sad but that's how I like it.
1983) You should play the game to know how awesome the game is not by your imagination
1984) An honest review would be actually playing the game from start to finish. Box checked and after soaking it all in the message was clear..... Spoiler alert..... Forgiveness is the answer to end all suffering.  What an amazing experience!!!
1985) 10/10 story,10/10 gameplay,10/10 music,10/10 character I really hope to make part III
1986) I do not give this a 10 lightly, I’ve just played TLOU remastered and then TLOU Part 2 back to back after a friend desperately tired to convince me to do so, after years of me saying “meh”.,This game sucked me in to its narrative, And challenged me with its epic gameplay mechanics I think this may be the greatest game I’ve every played.
1987) The last of us 2 delivers the best imersive history we have ever seen in a game
1988) Best game to Playstation so far i've ever played in a long long time. Naughty Dog have really gotten this game in top shape for release. No bugs at all! Storyline, emotions, action, sneaky and scary gore moments. Triggers alot. Recommended!!
1989) Great game. Plot, graphics, character development. One of the best games I've played
1990) Top marks from me.,Stunning to look at, brilliant tension in the gameplay.,Production qualities are unrivalled, from graphics, music, voice acting and tone.,Just because things happen in the story that people don’t like, doesn’t mean it wasn’t a good story.,A more than worthy sequel that will leave its mark on you.,I think people who don’t get it, lacks little emotional maturity, personally.,Nobody does games like Naughty Dog does games.,Game of the year.
1991) So after playing this I thought about it for a long time compared to other games. It really stuck with me. The message it sends is simple. But the way it does it is wild. There has never been storytelling like this in games. It forces your perspective. It makes you try and understand why people do what they do and what happens because of their actions. The gameplay is also an improvement on the last. I'll definitely play through again when I recover from the emotional trauma this game caused. Peace and love, -Z
1992) I thought the game was better than the first in all aspects. Graphically, 10/10. Sound effects and sound track 10/10. Gameplay 10/10, it’s a shame there’s no multiplayer because the level design is so good. Story 9/10. Yes it was sad to see Joel go so early in the game but his story was done and over with. I was conflicted playing as Abby, I wanted that girl to DIE then I started to like her, then I began to like her more than Ellie. The flashbacks and time spent with Joel were such a great change of pace. The supporting characters while not amazing were all good to great. I like that the story was more mature and made you think. I was happy Ellie and Abby had a bitter sweet ending and were able to spare what little they had left. The people mad about the diversity and LGBTEtc in the game need to STFU.
1993) As far as storytelling goes, this is the most ambitious and uncompromising video game I’ve experienced. Just play it.
1994) Great game, a lot of people say that Joel death is stupid but without that the game would've made no sense, also Ellie not killing Abby was great, you can see that Ellie still has some humanity in that monstrous world
1995) Fantastic story, graphics and game play. 10/10 would recommend to anyone. Shame this game is getting so much hate... if you liked the original, you'll love this one too.
1996) I thought there game was fantastic, and while I understand a few of the plot points might have been upsetting for some people, the story was exceptionally well told. Each of the points that have engendered such controversy were well earned and meticulously set up in the first game.,While I do think players complaining about how this game is more like a movie than a game have a point, because it is, it would be equally as valid to complain that it's not an arcade style game like pac-man. This is a narrative game. It is sorry driven, and if that's not your cup of tea, then this game may not be for you.,Honestly, though, after having played the game, I came away feeling like most of the critics are simply offended by the diverse cast of characters, and their complaints say more about their bigotry than they do about the game.,TLOU2 was a fantastic experience.
1997) Emotional continuation of one of my favourite games of all time. This game has taken that medal. The gameplay, graphics, story and world are absolutely incredible. Naughty dog aren’t getting the credit they deserve for this masterpiece
1998) Best game I’ve ever played Best story all the time among other games,You just needed to understand what Neil Druckmann  was trying to say
1999) Wow, what can I say? I avoided the spoilers, the hype, all reviews. I picked up this game because I loved the first. This game surpasses the first in my opinion. I'm older now, and everytime I dided it made me reflect on how fragile life is. Makes we want to forgive, love, and be good to people.
2000) Simply put it, the game is a masterpiece. The graphics, the story and the gameplay work in harmony to create one the best gaming experiences ever
2001) One of the best pieces of art I've ever played, loved evey single bit of this game, and I truly felt the game got me trapped into it. If it doesn't win the GOTY, idk what will!
2002) This is the best game I have ever played, I have never played a game that touched me and made me so completely invested in a history like this one did. It really is a work of art and deserves to win game of the year.
2003) one of the greatest games of all-time, a masterpiece, where show us how Abby and Ellie are so simillar even though they are so different, i simply love it.
2004) Say what you guys wanna say about this masterpiece of a game...I enjoyed this game and no one can change my mind.
2005) There’s no word to describe The last of us part II, you just need to play it.  An unforgettable experience that can also be life changing. Simply more than a game
2006) Only adds tó the first iteration. The story delivers similar feelings to rdr2. Combat feels fluid. The game is hard to stop As there are very few "hubs".
2007) The game is incredible, the story with Ellie’s y amazing and play with Abby is good, but the kill the Joel is sad; is a good game, but the game play with the gamers. Is the best game in 2020
2008) Amazing game. Deep story. The mechanics in it are unlike anything I've ever experienced. Very sad to see the blind hate. People die in games, movies and TV shows. In fact a lot of people died in this game and the first part, I think people need to get over it. Sorry it's not your stereotypical game, cause I know paying$60 for those is very fun to play over and over again. I'm sad but not surprised to also see all the homophobia out there. The world is an ugly place right now with the pandemic, the people believe it's a hoax, racist people, why not homophobic people too? Can't wait when your kids realize you were on the wrong side of history.,When you secretly buy this game later and enjoy it but are too prideful to tell anyone you changed your position, remember this moment
2009) An absolute masterpiece of a game.  Ignore the hate spam.  Yes the plot can frustrate and may not go where you want it to but this game follows the exact opposite of fanfare.  You never know what is going to happen and that's what's so excellent about.  It is a brutal, violent game that holds nothing back.
2010) Loved this game!! Technically speaking it is absolutely astounding how far it's come since the first game.,I loved the story. As a fan of tragic stories, I felt this was beautiful. It made me laugh, cry, scream, jump, and feel anxiety like no other game ever has. The characters felt so real to me, they had flaws and personality, changes of heart, they were hurting and lashing out... All in all, I absolutely loved this game. I hope there is another chapter to this story.
2011) At first i was also not sure how to feel about the path the developers and writers took, and although it was a risky bet I think the story fullfilled its purpose as an excellent exercise in tolerance. wich tests the personal bias from the players.  And in turn makes it clear how difficult it is to see the other side of the coin from time to time. Just finished the game a second time and I highly recommend it I had a whole different experience after knowing the motivations and complex narrative this masterpiece had to offer.
2012) Better than yall act like it is. Game of the year so far. I get that the pace can feel difficult, but that serves the story.
2013) An amazing game with an amazing story. Thank you Naughty Dog on well done game!
2014) An amazing, beautiful game from start to finish. I started the game without knowing anything other than what the trailers showed and I was shocked and captivated by the story a few hours into the game. Joel's death was a roller coaster of emotions but for me, it was one of the best moments in the game. It may be cheap, but it made me feel so many things in just that one moment. I kept playing the game thinking "I've got to kill Abby!" And for the majority of the game, that was my go-to emotion. That was until I got to play as Abby, and while I'm not her biggest fan, I enjoy her moments with Lev and her gameplay the most. By the end of the game, I wanted Ellie to give up her quest of vengeance, and I for one am glad she let Abby go.,Overall I loved the game, and I can't wait to see what comes next. I'm already on my third playthrough and I can't get enough.
2015) Best game ever. Grafics, storyline, action, love it. Sad for Joel, but understand.
2016) Game is amazing! Instantly became one of my top favorite games. Definitely worth the wait for it.
2017) 1. One of the greatest game in the game history,2. the most epic cinematic story and captivating end of the game industry.  The most beautiful perfect game I have played in the last 30 years.,3. Great game mechanics and emotional participation.,4. all the stupid pseudo gamers who badmouth this game are a disgrace to the gaming community.,5. you should learn to see games and their content as art. you don't badmouth a book or a movie because you don't like the storyline or there are homosexuals in a series. One should also evaluate objectively.,6.Please name a game with a better intense visual story?  (RDR2 would have a chance),But what game, like LoU2, has such detailed expression animations.  And animated real muscle.  Such real skin.  Woundings.  Details.  This game is at the highest level of possibility.
2018) Incredible game, graphics are insane, mocap and voice acting is top tier the gameplay is as smooth as butter, and the story is incredibly written and is an emotional roller coaster.
2019) Gameplay, graphics, sound, and story are among the finest gaming experience I've ever had. While the story is certainly decisive amongst fans, the characters are complex and layered, and their morally grey decisions feel true to the world they're living in. It's not the story I think a lot of us would have written for a Part II, but by the end I realized it's the story I wanted. A character driven narrative where the motivations don't feel like they're just there to move the plot along, but rather are real decisions being made by real people who have experienced real loss, and they're slowly coming to terms with the real consequences of their actions.,The Last Of Us was already my favorite game of all time, a game I avoided for the longest time because of the worn-out zombie apocalyptic setting, but by the end I realized was one of the realest stories I'd ever experienced. Part II just solidified it's place as some of the best story telling I've ever experienced in any medium.
2020) "Forgive others, not because they deserve forgiveness, but because you deserve peace." This is definitely not an easy game to go through emotionally. It's a harrowing, meaningful, challenging and tragically exquisite story. It challenges you to think critically. 'if at the end, you wish you could have killed a certain character for a revenge after walking a mile in that person's shoes. You may have beat the game with your controller, but you may have lost the game Naughty Dog was playing with your soul.'
2021) Excellent story, exciting gameplay, 4 weeks since completing it and thinking about it all the time. will stick with me for forever.
2022) I really was amazed by this game.  That was not happening for a long time with any recent games. Thanks for all the hard work developers.
2023) This game is phenomenal, I'd also say that the story is way more complex than the first one, and there are few people really able to understand what it talks about. I can't understand why there is so much by community about the game, it's a masterpiece.
2024) A must-play! Avoid leaks and play the game, it's twenty plus hour game. Playing both as Abby and Ellie is a fantastic experience and has lots of emotion
2025) Amazing game going through again on hard+ now will play many times .... It's brutal and emotionally challenging and everything it needed to be. Respect to the creators, incredible piece of gaming.
2026) Nothing has ever been so easy to rate. This game looks fantastic, the scenarios, characters and every single element look like if they would’ve been handcrafted. Comfortable character movements and mechanics. Plenty of accessibility choices.,This game game doesn’t cheat anyone, the purpose of it is telling a story of some main characters in a beautiful and dangerous world.,It does appeal to the emotional part in order to create a complete gaming experience that allows you to connect with the characters.,I loved every single detail I hope this harsh, unfair and out of spite criticism stops sooner than later. Everyone should recognize the amazing work of Naughty Dog.,I give those guys a solid 10 for now just because there’s nothing higher than that.
2027) Incredible visuals, deep storytelling. Like a good book, I just couldn’t put it down.
2028) Excellent game! Loved the direction the game was taken - game is brutal and combat is awesome
2029) The best game ever, nothing can compare to this game, I hope they make it part 3 on PS5
2030) Great game, definitely a worth while play and a very different story experience to the first game.
2031) It’s a good game.  Halfway through the game I literally yelled “No no no, **** this”.  But I finished it, and was satisfied.
2032) A game that can not easily be summarized, and, in my opinion, transcends beyond the realm of being simply a “game”. It’s an experience. It channels the full gamut of human motion, challenges your thinking and morals, and is still totally badass and a **** of fun. Could not recommend more highly, or praise more thoroughly. A MASTERPIECE of gameplay, storytelling, and graphics to top it off. 11/10
2033) it's a great game, the script is great, the inclusion is extraordinary, I feel very satisfied
2034) The game is not flawless, but despite it's flaws it parallels the impact of the first. The game is a masterpiece, an unexpected sequel with an unexpected story to go along with it. It is mature, justified, and forces you to think outside of your own comfort zones.
2035) Part II cements this franchise as one of the greatest in gaming through it's story alone and by enhancing pivitol events of it's successor. The rationships and intertwining stories among these characters is a rollercoaster of emotions unlike any other. The overall story is a devestating yet beautiful tale of loss that continues to haunt me weeks after completion. The gameplay is visceral and gory enough to scratch any players craving for intense combat in this dog eat dog world (Which is graphically the most gorgeous I have ever witnessed in any game closely matched by 2018's RDR2.... maybe). ND has once again outdone themselves and I immensely look forward to whatever gem they decide to give us next!!
2036) I had high hopes for this game.. I really did and they delivered. I get that art is subjective so maybe this story isn’t for everyone BUT for me personally this game was incredible. Like most I HATED Abby for what she did but once you find out her reasoning it seemed justified. The game is dark and twisted and you have to know that going into it. There are some fair criticism to the game and some that are not fair at all. This game worked for me. The story. How it was told. The ending. The characters all set the bar high for me. If you’re a fan of the first one like I am play this one. You won’t regret it.
2037) This game is awesome, one of best I played.,Gameplay, graphics, story, characters, are very great
2038) Best game I’ve EVER played. User scores need to change to 10!! No other game is better.  Not 1.
2039) naughty dog did it again they have made another emotional compelling and smart story. game play has been expanded on and is still satisfying nm more i can say tbh
2040) bunch of crying babies here , even with your **** rewiews bombing it will be goty
2041) Neckbeards & incels who haven’t actually played this game make me laugh
2042) Perfect mix of story and excitement! The twists and turns will keep you engaged. The battles, while frequent, do not feel repetitive and are short enough to still seem interesting.
2043) I enjoyed this game, from the beautiful world to the intense and brutal fights. This game captures you completely and keeps you playing. Its one of the greats. Its a sad and gut punching story. And obviously not for anyone who worships Disney endings. But a great story at that.
2044) Orgasmic. Everything about the game is just orgasmic. You will be in ecstasy every second that you play this game.
2045) In the technical department, is my opinion that the game excels without much discussion: The graphics, sound and game play are top notch and as a videogame, 0/10 reviews are extremely unfair to all the work put by a lot of people in the making of this game.,About the story, subjectivity comes in place, but for me, ND created an amazing story, a challenging one, that is not easy to intake and that obviously didn't do well for a lot of people that was expecting something else. It was incredible, even after being spoiled a couple things prior playing. Whether you like it or not, this game will be remembered for a long time.,And for avoiding spoiling anything myself, if you haven't played it yet, don't let all the hate forbid you from doing it. Form your own opinion, you may love it or not, but is a videogame and it was made to be experienced as such.
2046) I start by saying that the only BIG problem that this game has (for me) is that of be unplayable without having played the first chapter. In fact I REALLY HOPE that the blasphemies regarding all the negative comments that this game received by the audience have been made by the people being part of the alarming statistic I read saying that about the 80% of the people who played this game did not played the first one.... While the only problem on a practical level is that of be a little pulled for long in the middle of the story, but both of this problems, in relation to what the game is in all the other aspects, are not sufficient  to lower the grade even of a single unit from 10. In fact this game is perfect from every other point of view: storyline, characters development, GRAPHIC (that probably will be hard to overtake even during the next gen), settings, and I could go on and on. Concluding I want to say that even if this game does not liked you, you cannot give it less then 7/8, even just for the technical sector. So I hope that all those zeroes I saw with horror were made by mindless people who were just angry because their favorite character is died. but this is not a smart reason to give zero to a game of 10. You’re just an idiot. Last thing I want to say thank you to noughty dog also and above all for the courage they took making this game knowing that only if you are clever, you can appreciate this immense work, and most of all knowing from the start that most of the people who would play it then are still very stupid, having however continued the making of the game and thank god I loved it, maybe even more than the last of us 1.
2047) As a fan of the original, I am very much liking this one as well. Everything I loved about the first game is present here. These are some of the most beautiful, most detailed environments I’ve ever seen in a video game. The performance capture and writing is excellent, and the story swings between brutal lows and genuinely sweet highs.
2048) Amazing game. One of the best PS4 exclusive. TLOU-2 doesn't deserve such hatred. Even if you do not like the story for some reason, then at least for the graphics, gameplay and attention to detail at least you can put a score of 7-8. For me, it's 10 out of 10.
2049) Best game I've played this time. The story is like a movie, creative and unforgettable
2050) Firstly F*** all the trolls who are bombing this game with negative reviews. To anyone reading this, please give this game a try for yourself and decide on your own. The critic reviews offer an unbiased opinion on the game and you can see the rating there.,,For the actual review, this is one of the best games i have ever played, along with its predecessor. The studio behind this series doesn't disappoint as this one is just as majestic as the original and a true sequel to the first game. The brilliant story telling, beautiful visuals and enhanced gameplay dynamics which allow for more exploration and a more open world feel during battles is very enjoyable. The brilliant performance from the actors playing the characters that is displayed in the cut scenes brings each character to life. I felt a mix of emotions going through the different character arcs, such an experience i have never felt in any other game as it is a roller coaster ride. The story follows up from the previous plot but also revisits some scenarios from the previous game to explain what happened in between which explains the story perfectly and this answered all my lingering questions after i finished the first game.,,The world of LOU is visually beautiful and you can see the amount of effort that went into the game. The story kept me on the edge of the seat all the time. The game also explores various social/political issues and introduces a good mix of diversity which blends in with the story perfectly. It also does a great job at depicting how society crumbles in a post apocalyptic scenario and how war between different factions/races with differing values leads to unnecessary series of killing and violence.,,I want to revisit and finish this game at least a couple more times as it is so entertaining.,,10/10 PERFECTION
2051) I was lucky enough to avoid most of the spoilers going into the game and as a result I was pretty unsullied when it came to a lot of the criticisms towards it. I personally really enjoyed the original game's gameplay along with it's fantastic story andeverything that goes into it. This game is definitely a continuation of all of that and more. Go into it with an open mind and you will find yourself being surprised! It's an absolutely beautiful game that is an absolute masterpiece of most of the package as a whole.
2052) Amazing game, amazing gameplay, amazing atmosphere, very good, dark, deep, open story that makes you think abaout a lot of things. This games punishes players that saved ellie in the first game by brilliantly force them to chase and vanquish all sins that the caracters comitted in the story. Brilliant!
2053) I can see why male gamers may not like the story, thanks to the leaks. I avoided the spoilers and was so glad I did. If I knew that they were going to kill off my favorite characters i would be angry too. The story of revenge and its cost was brilliant.  The visuals and sound were next level. My favorite  part was Ellie singing Take on me, and performed  beautifully  by the actress. The flashbacks sequences were emotional  and brought storytelling in games to another level. Great game.
2054) Beautiful story telling with complex narrative. If you love drawn out drama with complex characters and storys this is the game for you
2055) Awesome game, don't listen to haters. What else would you expect from Naughty Dog?,Great story, great gameplay, never boring, great twists. Some might not like some choices of the game designers regarding the story, and I can respect that, but that doesn't make the game bad. Some might not like the fact that the trailer lied to us, but again, doesn't make the game bad. I have an advice to those who don't know if they should play it due to the bad reviews: play if for yourself and make up your own opinion.
2056) This is a great game for several reasons: 1. Graphics are beyond praise, beautiful landscapes of the city and nature. 2. Favorite characters are back in action, the story captures and plunges into the abyss of the post-Apocalypse. 3. The music is tense and atmospheric. 4. the Abundance of violence and horror keeps you in suspense for several days. 5. Management is convenient, the quality of this company is 100%. 6. Neil-genius, the first in his business, sells us a quality product, seven years of waiting was worth it. 7. I bought the game in an iron box with an art book and am proud of it. Thank you to the people who created Last of us, part 2. I'm happy! Yuri, Russia.
2057) Literal game of this console generation. It's a shame people have review bombed this game. I really hope this doesn't deter people from experiencing this masterpiece from Naughty Dog for themselves. Never has a game made me feel nearly every emotion. Happy, sad, angry, scared, anxious, surprised, etc  Obviously this game must be played after part I or it won't have nearly the same effect. The more recently you played part I the better. Do be aware though, this game is not family friendly or for the faint of heart.
2058) Amazingly awesome. Builds and improves on the first part in every way. Graphics are insanely good, gameplay is sharpened up and has varied styles of play for you to choose. What an action driven story game should be. Naughty Dog have outdone themselves again. The story is surprising, captivating and intensely Personal anyone who complains probably has an agenda, us prejudiced or just doesn't know good storytelling when they see it. Game of the Generation no doubt.
2059) The best narrative in any game I've ever played. Amazing how they weaved it into the gameplay, which was a ton of fun in its own right.
2060) Stunning storytelling, this game did not deserve the review bombing it received.
2061) Just because the story isn’t what *you* wanted it to be, doesn’t make it bad. People die, stuff happens, things don’t go as planned. Not every story gets a satisfying, happy ending. Deal with it. The game is set in a bleak, post apocalyptic world, not a Disney fairy tale.
2062) Loved it. They made everything better. The story is for a mature audience. More like a novel. Not your usual Video game that gives you triumphant victory at the end. It's very philosophical and thought provoking.
2063) i don't get why people vote 0 this masterpiece...  you can't vote  a game just for the story, if you only want story just read a book and shut up.,considering the graphics, the artificial intelligence and the length of the game a 7 is a must.,for me this game is a solid 10
2064) Fantastic game just ignore the woke crap that almost ruins it.,,The gameplay, graphics and animation are amazing the story not so much but for me its a 10 as I had so much fun playing it.
2065) The Last of Us part II is a masterpiece of game design which surpasses your every expectation.
2066) Pure quality. Naughty Dog proves once again that they are one of the best games studios out there by providing us with an emotionally conflicting, nuanced narrative that pushes the limits of what/how games make us feel. Apart from the narrative achievement, the graphics, sound effects and gameplay mechanics are, as per usual Naughty Dog title, unparalleled. Bravo Naughty Dog, bravo!
2067) Everything on the technical side is improved and enhanced greatly from the first game. There's of course better graphics and animations, bigger levels and new environmental elements, but the biggest enhancements are the AIs of both your NPC companions and the enemies. Specially the stalkers - those feel like a completely different enemy this time around and provide some of the more intense sequences.,,Regarding the story... the game creators have said it best: The first game is about love, the second game is about hate. The first game was sad and violent, and ugly, but it was also heart-warming and beautiful. You see the world through the eyes of a washed-off man who learns to love again.,,This game is the complete opposite. It's designed to make you feel increasingly unease, to the point of regretting your own actions. You start strong and determined, only to get slowly and relentlessly invaded by doubt and quilt. At some point you might even feel that you would rather not carry on the actions that the game requires for the story to progress. In my book, that's a huge accomplishment. I feel that many of the people who criticize the choices they made on the story are missing this point.,,Me... I've never seen anything remotely like this before.
2068) Good Game, I like it,While there are many negative reviews, most are from people who have never played the game and are not reliable
2069) This wasn't your typical black and white story of hero kills villain. It showed the complexity and justification of the decision all the characters have made through out the story.
2070) Not exactly what I was expecting from a sequel to The Last of Us. I loved the acting, the level of visual detail and the fact that it told a narrative that wasn't "fun" all the time.,Definitely don't think all games need to be this dark, but I wouldn't mind if more examined the mental consequences of killing.,Easily one of the best games of the year. And of the generation.
2071) Incredible game, incredible story, falls barely short of the first games emotional depth for me personally but hits home in many other ways, highly recommended 10/10
2072) The graphics are beautiful and the story is rich
2073) Absolute masterpiece! The best game of my life. Thank you so much Naughty Dog
2074) I have been waiting for 7 years to play this and i have to say that when i started TLOU II, my first impresion wasn't the best as a first look. But the game and history started to flow, and that didn,t stop until the end. In terms of grafics and desing maybe there are parts in which RDR 2 can compete, although in action and cinematics is outstanding, it really feels like a movie (in the good sense) there no much diference between a cinematic or a fight encounter, is amazing. In terms of gameplay the mechanics evolve (there are some really nice adds and improvement), is not a revolution but as I say before it is as perfect as playing a movie. Now we are gonna talk about the history, without spoilers. As i was playing the game i was really enjoying the history, the scenes, etc. I expect something really diferent, but i think that this story is amazing. The important thing i expect that will be main point in TLOU II history apears in the game, but is not based in that, and that's because this history is more complex, it talks about really diferent things and is more brutal than the first. I think is like you are watching Netflix and this game is one or two seasons of a serie. Some many things happends, some of them maybe more important but it could be the best story i have ever played in a videogame. When i finished and i saw opinions like it is a terrible history i couldn't believe it. I think that ND didn't want to do a history for everybody, maybe this history isn't for you, but if you enter in the flow of TLOU II, it will be one of yout best videogames experiences.
2075) This game was the perfect sequel to a beautiful and yet brutal original. This game made me feel every emotion with such conviction and power. I laughed. I felt felt genuine fear and dread. And felt longing. I felt pain, frustration, insecurity, hopelessness, desperation, sadness, the list continues. But when this game was most powerful was when it made me cry. Yes, you read that correctly. And yes, I like watching John Wick partly due to the high body count in each show. In this game however, each death carries weight and slowly chips away at your humanity and sanity. I’ve never felt so emotionally drained and exhausted after an hour long session, not really wanting to pick the controller back up. But I did. I kept pressing forward because the story and emotions felt from the characters are so deep and feel so incredibly real. I could not stop playing. Many have argued about the gritty content and perhaps even an ending they weren’t expecting or wanting but look at the world in which this game takes place. It’s not a pleasant, happy or fair world. It’s a world ravaged by a horrific virus that has stripped humanity down to its most raw and dangerous form. Anyone who expects the game to sunshine and butterflies with everything nicely gift wrapped is playing the wrong game. It’s a horrible world filled with even more horrible people. More so horrible, and in many cases, scarier than the actual infected population. With all of that being said this was the single greatest game I have ever played in my life. Every tear that fell from my eye was so powerful and carried meaning. This game is better than 99% of Hollywood movies that have ever existed. This game will make you think, laugh, cower in fear, grit your teeth in anger, and leave you ugly crying in the shower if you think about it too hard the next day. But it is worth every emotion and then some. Game of the year? Nah, game of the century.
2076) The people only hate the game because Joel died and you have to play with Abby in the game. The grafics, sounds, physics, models, shaders ARE AMAZING THIS IS A MASTERPICE ONE OF THE BEST GAMES EVER THAT SONY HAVE LAUNCHED
2077) Best and incredible game I have played in long time and troy baker role as jole is breathtaking and show every bit of emotions making Joel as a real living character.,Apart from this the infected AI was just great and when played in hard level it is worth playing agin.
2078) This is the most challenging game from a narrative and emotional standpoint that has been released this entire generation of games. If you only play one game this year make it last of us 2. Honestly all of the negative reviews I’ve seen seem to think of Joel as a good person, he wasn’t. Anyone who says he was treated with disrespect has a very weird relationship with the first game they really need to work through.
2079) Its one of the best Games ive ever played! The Graphic is The best Graphic ive ever Seen in a Videogame. The Story also is fantastic!
2080) A little overlong at some points but overall an amazing game that's definitely worth playing more than once. Even better than the first game in my opinion.
2081) A game that provokes such a divided response to me proves that it is a masterpiece. Flawed characters struggling through a world that has never felt more real while feeling and seeing the impact of senseless violence. This is more of an experience and less of a game than the first part.
2082) I've been a big fan of TLOU, i was so excited for the sequel, and all the hype, until the leaks came out by one person and the internet was, y'know, rage. But I've managed to escape all spoilers i can, after i beat the game. I feel nothing, so i gave it a another try, and then something inside me changed, and i finally understand the story, because i went open-minded this time. And then i played it again the third time, and then something strikes at me, i was feeling, so, emotionally, never, not a single game made me physically emotionally and it changed me so much, I'm more social now around my family members, and i love talking about the game with them, cause it changed my life, like forever. I just wanna say, thank you Naughty Dog for a masterpiece once again and thank you for changed me into a better person. Thank you.
2083) Beautiful experience and a worthy sequel. The art, direction, acting, music, gameplay and writing is exemplary. It’s a journey worth taking, brutal, honest and full of moments that will break your heart and leave you questioning everything.
2084) The Last of Us Part II is the perfect send-off for the PlayStation 4. It looks next-gen, offers detailed accessibility features, utilizes realistic enemy AI, and tells a beautiful story.
2085) Great game. Graphic, sound and animations are incredible. The plot is nothing new or original but is masterfully narrated. Maybe 10/10 is too high, probably 9.5 could be better because like any other game isnt perfect.
2086) A worthy sequel. Try playing yourself and judge. Only thing I hate “about this game” is majority it’s fanbase. So toxic.
2087) I have watched the first 2 hours of the game through youtube before buying the game to see what the fuss was about and why people hated the story, and I understood why, I was the same with those people, but I bought the game anyway after that because I wanted to experience and let my own review reflect on the game instead of agreeing with a a person review, after playing and finishing the game, I understand why naughty dog went towards this path for the story, there are some part to the story I did not like but had to be played, honestly, this game is the best game I have played so far, much more challenges and more activity to do in the game than we got in the first game, more story telling and sad scenes, anyone who just puts the review up without playing the game needs to play and finish the game instead watching someone else play and give their review of the game
2088) Much like the first, Part 2 a game that pushes the boundaries of story telling and makes you question the actions of the characters you love. The gameplay is seriously upgraded, with subtle additions that keep most encounters feeling fresh and unique. Had this game been a simple sequel that updates the characters for a new console, it would’ve been a little underwhelming. But Naughty Dog push and spin the narrative in a way that’s rarely seen - and therefore the feelings it creates are rare and powerful too. The first game changed my life, and made me into a die hard fan. The second has lived up to my hopes and expectations - it’s a unique, controversial, violent, beautiful and emotional journey that only Naughty Dog could create. Whilst it’s a shame that so many can’t enjoy it for what it should be, those that can will find it truly worthwhile, and then some. Another contender for game of the generation.
2089) Masterpiece, conflicting and unafraid to do something out of the ordinary. A true watershed moment in gaming.
2090) I cannot believe all the hate this game is getting, I have been playing video games all the way back to the original Atari console. The Last of Us Part 2 outshines every game that I have played, from the masterful story telling to the amazing graphics. The haters just need to STOP!
2091) The Last of Us II was not only the best experience that i have with video games, but the best experience that i have with an audiovisual stuff. Thank you Naughty Dog and thank you for bring to us this awesome game with this brilliant history. My score? 10! Because im not allowed to give more!
2092) The Last of Us 2 give us a new story in the same universe and with some of the same main characters of the first game. It also have a good amount of new ones. The main motivation for this story is a direct consequence of the events that happened on the first TLoU.,,The game play follow much of the first game adding some new movements (as crawl and rope climbing/swinging/jumping) and some new mechanics (as the rope mechanic). Ellie's knife is unbreakable (witch turn things a little bit easier) and the improvements ah more-or-less in a "skill tree" arrangement.,,[SPOILERS AHEAD],,- About Main Story:,,The mains story is well designed and you can really relate with Ellie's feelings.,The begging of the game makes us feel the same hate that Ellie feels, as we love Joel as much as she (because of the first game). So you can relate with his anger and the pursuit for revenge.,,As the player advances through game you see a couple of flashbacks that explains the relationship between Joel and Ellie after the ending of the first game. Here are some of the most beautiful scenes of game (maybe both games), like the museum one.,,At the end you will be just like Ellie: hollow. This isn't a game that makes you happy or gives you the satisfaction of the obvious and comfortable ending.,,- About "The Other Side" of Story:,,The other protagonist (or antagonist as you wish), Abby, has strong motivations for her actions and the game tries to show you that.,Is it really hard to relate and have empathy for her since we had a entire game to learn to love Ellie. Is it really painful to play with Abby after seeing what she done and is specially painful to play with her at the final battle of her campaign.,,There are some characters the are underdeveloped, like the WLF leader , Isaac. I'd love to know a little bit more of his story, but it is understandable that when writing a story you have to make some choices as not every character can have the same "screen time".,,- Footnotes:,,The only thing the really made me disappointed was the lacking of a multiplayer mode. I'd really love to have a multiplayer mode like in the first game. But this was no surprise as Naughty Dog had has already told us that there was not going to be one.,,PS.:,To the ones that are afraid because the haters speech, the game is great. The story is great. The sexuality of Ellie is just another layer of her personality witch helps to make her feel real (and isn't the main point of the game at all). This is a story about hate and revenge and it accomplishes it's purpose.
2093) The Last of Us Part 2 is a gut wrenching masterpiece. Don't bother with the  review bombers who've never even touched the game. Play the game to make up your own mind and come to your own conclusion.
2094) Epic journey and gameplay.,The story does a great job showing us Abby's side of the story, I sympathized with her so much that I'm glad Ellie didn't kill her.,There is so much to say about the amazingly thought out writing and I feel that people who are stuck on hating Abby dont quite understand what the story actually means.,Quite frankly I dont think they even played the game or if they did and beat it, then they may have physically played the game but ultimately lost.
2095) Very few times will a game make me openly cry. This one made me do so multiple times. The gameplay (while the difficulty ratings were slightly sandbagged) felt smooth and innovative, and well utilized the presence of two unique playable characters. Playing as Abby, I expected to be playing a reskinned Ellie, but she really did feel like a unique character in the way you approach situations. Story wise, I don't know that I've ever felt such pain and heartbreak for a set of characters. By the final scenes,  I really just wanted everyone to walk away and go home or go on with their lives, even though I knew that couldn't be the way it ended. Excellent work by everyone on the team, and an excellent game. Just make sure you are in the right headspace for it
2096) ***sorry for my broken english,i love the way the create characters, it's so diversity and i love this so so so much. And the story is okay for me, every characters have reasons of their own actions.
2097) Excellent, the best game of the decenny. Narration, gameplay, scenario, history, all of this is excellent
2098) Fantastic game, not sure why people have downgraded it so much.  The brutality of the game tops off from the first game from early stages and just gets worse throughout the game but following the story through it is definitely worth it.
2099) The game is a ride, a lot of emotions, i end up thinking about the game for days after finished it, it is one of a kind. For me it is a 10/10.,2 playthroughs completed.
2100) I loved the game! I appreciated all the LGBTQ+ characters and how it showed them all. This game will be in my top 3 for sure. There is a lot of hate for this game and it doesn’t deserve it all. The graphics are great and the game play is great. The game left me wanting more! I really hope they decide to make another game!
2101) Gameplay is fantastic, animation is beautiful, story will rip your freaking heart out. It's extremely dark but I loved it, just finished my second playthrough and once I emotionally recover again I'm going to go in for my third.
2102) I don’t know where to start. But play The Last Of Us first before embarking on this piece of art. But for me, while avoiding anything that had to deal with this game, months prior to its release and the emerging leaks. I was totally blown away from the hard working craftsmanship from the awesome people over at Naughty Dog, again. From the super smooth and gorgeous graphics to the lively gameplay and very human like characters, it feels like a fresh breeze of air for video games. The smallest details just had me paused and just acknowledge the world that you are role playing in as Joel, Ellie or Abby. Now the narrative is **** awesome from starting as Joel telling Tommy, his brother, the lie he told Ellie that her “immunity meant nothing” when in fact he saved her cause he loves her as almost as a daughter and wasn’t able to save Sarah (please play the first one, the game echos with numerous references to Part I) to the ending where Ellie let’s go of drowning Abby. I was disappointed, at first like why did she let her go? But then I thought about the Thank You letter from Neil Druckmann on behalf of ND. “-a game that we’re incredibly proud of and that we hope will enthrall you and challenge your own views of justice and empathy.” Just my opinion, but if Ellie didn’t go to Santa Barbara to seek out Abby, she would’ve died. But this game is about retribution for Joel’s death through the eyes of Ellie and Abby for why she sought him out. Which is a gnarly chain reaction. The way the team was able to mirror those perspectives, like seeing someone as the “enemy” and then you playing as the “enemy” totally sealed off whether they are the hero or villain. Instead I saw them as two beings fighting in their own theories of justice, which usually ends in violence. And for Joel’s death, yes it was heartbreaking and a punch to the gut, but no one is invincible (even in reality) in this universe and his actions finally caught up to him, he will always be a dope character and I hope they go in depth with him more in the HBO Series, but it was necessary. From his consequences to really pushing Ellie’s and Abby’s narrative it’s just a full circle ending of violence. This game will probably be seen as a modern day “Manhunt” game but really questions, is violence the answer? Really awesome playing during the COVID-19 outbreak, potential showed a dystopian for mankind if we don’t get this fixed, but was unprecedented. So it felt like a festive game, not going to lie. And also the diversity of characters that they brought into as well was like its reflection on society but the aftermath of an apocalypse. But anyways I’m on my New Game + on Survivor, collecting the collectibles, and I haven’t felt this was from a different game since Fallout 3. There’s soo much to explore and see and for it not being really open world, they make it feel like that. Finally I just want to say that seeing Naughty Dog go from Crash Bandicoot (Smash Brandi’s Cootch) to this game just shows how much they’ve grown a lot and my first game that I played ever was from them (Crash). So a big NICE **** JOB will always go to them. Game of the Year for sure and a game to top for the decade. I’m waiting on Part III, please.
2103) The game works very well in terms of graphics, play functions and NARRATIVE! Such a damned good story!
2104) this is an excellent game, such games are released very rarely do not miss the chance.  The plot very cleverly plays with the feelings and emotions of the players, telling us the same story from different angles and forcing us to think about the correctness of the actions taken.
2105) The game is good, but I didn't like how they killed Joel, but everything else: music, graphics, almost the entire plot and gameplay are just awesome!
2106) Well. I can understand why people are saying that this game sucks. It is because most of us aren't ready to look inside of your ugliness and understand that revenge isn't a good thing, that It'll make you suffer, you'll probably lose everything and, in the end, you'll become a monster. Gamers aren't ready, they're not mature enough to understand such topics, to feel the pain, to understand that there's always two sides of one history and it doesn't matter if the other seems to be the villain... They had their reasons to do it, they have a story behind and they're, above it all, humans with feelings. The tragedy in Abby's life can show us that she had, in her vision, a reason to kill Joel. Joel had a reason to kill Abby's dad, because he saw in Ellie a new chance to protect a daughter since he couldn't do it in TLOU... People are saying this is a bad game because they aren't ready to feel and be true to themselves and be able to understand that Abby is a good person, Ellie is a good person, Joel was a good person, Manny was a good person and even Isaac was a good person, this game is about being alive and fighting for your existence and, in some point of "surviving" you'll forget about being a human. For me, TLOU Part II is a masterpiece, it makes you think about stuff you already did in your life, makes you feel terrible about some choices, makes you evaluate what really matters in the end. Naughty Dog, thank you so so much for this incredible experience.
2107) One of the best games I've ever played so far..,I've jus finished it and I already want to start all over again..
2108) Best game I have ever played. The chemistry between Ellie and Dina is unlike anything I have ever seen before in a good way
2109) Brilliant game.  Don't worry about the haters, and if you're still not sure, make sure you're looking at reviews with constructive criticism, and not just hating on Neil or the ending, or the  death scene.,One question you need to ask yourself when playing this game is WHY these characters are making these choices.  Ellie and Abbey are completely parallel and mirrored in their choices, except, Abbey is a story of redemption whereas Ellies is of revenge.  The pacing of the game at times may be off, i'll agree, and the enemies overall are not as intimidating as before, especially when playing as Abbey, however the story is beautifully crafted and a wonderful tale of revenge, and what it can cost you.  A story of love, and how important it is to hang onto it especially in these post apocalyptic times.,If you don't empathize with Abbey after playing as her for 10+ hours, then i don't blame you, HOWEVER, you have to absolutely see where she's coming from having had her father killed by Joel;  a random person she's never met.  I'll admit, by the end, i felt so, so strongly for Abbey, more than Ellie, and she quickly became my new favourite character as she was completely fleshed out and complex.,The game is brutal, and unforgiving, and does not make you feel all warm and fuzzy on the inside, and in fact, will CONSTANTLY disgust you, but that's what it sets out to do.,For those who hate the ending, again, don't blame you, but it makes total sense.  Ellie forgave Joel, someone who in her eyes made an unforgivable choice, so in that moment, she made sure to forgive Abbey, to save her own soul.  Realizing that murdering her will bring her nothing, just like how Abbey killing Joel actually made her lose much much more than just her father,I'm absolutely playing this again.
2110) Magnificent! Brilliant! Incredible!,Monument game for PS4.,Thanks Naughty Dog.
2111) First time writing a review, but I've been in a daze for the past 24 hour since finishing the game, and I don't know what else to do. This game is absolutely incredible. And not because it makes you feel good. Not because it's "fun." But because it moves you, if you let it.,,Story: The storytelling style is very similar to a novel containing viewpoints of not only the protagonist, but also the antagonist. This style allows the reader, or in this case the player, to obtain greater context about the story world, and the overall experience becomes richer for it. Brandon Sanderson's work comes to mind here, as he often devotes large chunks of each book to writing from the perspective of "the bad guy." In a similar style, TLOU2 forces the player to live through the eyes of "the bad guy," Abby. in doing so, you realize that she's more than just a 2-dimensional villain. If you allow yourself to, you'll begin to understand her motivations, and even perhaps respect them. Hell, by the end of it, I really liked Abby. And believe me, when I first started playing through her chapters I was upset and caught off guard. But go along with it; the writers know what they're doing.,,The greatest part about this is that by the end of the game, not only do you get to see Ellie make her game-ending decision about what to do with Abby, but if you've been playing along and paying attention, you will likely have also made that same decision. The writers beautifully succeeded in following one of the age-old rules of writing: show, don't tell. They don't just show you Ellie's internal conflict about whether she should kill Abby. They make you feel that conflict yourself. Well done Naughty Dog, well done.,,Gameplay: As with the first game, the mechanics were spot on and exploring the world was a lot of fun. A mix of stealth and bash-em-up fisticuffs keep things interesting.,,Visuals: Gorgeous. Absolutely stunning.,,Soundtrack: listening to it right now. Gustavo, you are an angel.,,Summary: People have every right to dislike the game, but you should play it before you judge it. I've talked to many people that won't play the game because they don't want to play as Abby. That would be the same as refusing to read a novel because there are chapters from the point-of-view of a character you think you won't like, despite the amount of global context and character development contained within those chapters. Naughty Dog, you all did a phenomenal job, and I'd love to see another game. Whatever you do next, keep up the great work.
2112) Need to play till the end. Had mixed feelings at the beginning but now I love this game.  10/10
2113) This is the exact game that a young adult, living so uneventfully during a pandemic, should play. This consequence that could only exist in a world akin to one The Last of Us Part 2 is set is invoking of unusual contemplation that could inspire the current generation to partake in becoming meaningful. There is a humanity in these characters that is difficult to experience in the worlds of the people that are likely to play this game, and that is allowing of the necessity of this game.
2114) Amazing sequal. Good character development. Incredible level design. Would reccomend 10/10 would play again.
2115) Greatest interactive experience ever. Bold and masterful storytelling (even if you don't like Joel's death - He had it coming -), gorgeous visuals and out of our mind sounds design. Played twice in survivor and survivor + and fully recommend to do the same to actually experience the pain and the most emotionally exhausting and stressful 30 hours of your gaming life.
2116) I don't get it why this game gets so many bad reviews. The story is not bad, it's just complex. And because of this complexity, it's not for everyone, it's very controversial. But it makes you think and feels so many emotions, I don't know many games that leave you with such an emotional mess. That's just Naughty Dog for you. Gameplaywise and technologically it's just a miracle. If you loved gameplay in the first game, part II makes everything better and greater. A must-have for PS4 owners and franchise fans.
2117) From start to finish this game was unreal between the graffics to game play was just awesome , when you play as Abby after playing with Ellie and pretty much hating her for what she did to Joel it was very odd feeling that I never experienced in a video game ! 10/10 for me the hate from people who didn’t even play the whole game at the start was very odd ! I had to come on here and put my review on it and hopefully bump that user score up some which I can see already went up a decent amount ! If your in the fence about this game don’t be it’s awesome
2118) This is a flawed masterpiece that I think will go down in history as a daring and defining moment in gaming.,,First of all this is a 20+ hour game that got review bombed on the day of release.  You can pretty much throw out any review dated June 19th (the day it came out), good or bad.  Any review that gives this game under a 5/10 because of “plot holes” is also an absolute joke.  This game isn’t notable for its plot holes, it’s notable for the surprising direction the narrative takes and some narrative choices that fans won’t like.,,So many people are reviewing this game based on what they wished the story would be, not what it actually is. I don’t agree with the backlash against this game, but I definitely get it.  Look, Joel is a great character and Troy Baker’s voice and motion performance is one of the best in gaming history.  His voice has that weary gravitas that fits in perfectly to the post-apocalyptic setting.,,Like many people, I hated Abby in the beginning of the game (how can you not!?), disliked her at the start of her chapter, and grew to find her a very compelling character.  Did I love the story from start to finish?  No I felt it dragged in the middle, particularly in parts of Abby’s campaign.  Nevertheless, this game contains incredible world building - Seattle, Santa Barbara. Now the world has been expanded we can see how this story could continue for another decade of games.  There’s so much more to this world than the world of The Last of Us part 1: rival factions the WLF, the Seraphites ("scars”); the survivors in Jackson, Wyoming; little **** head gangs like the Rattlers; hints at a possibly rebuilt Fireflies.  The Last of Us told a tighter story; TLOU2 lays the groundwork for an entire world.,,The gameplay plays like a true sequel: it builds on the mechanics of the first one with even more variety of weapons to craft, new mechanics like crawling, and different upgrade trees for the two main characters.  The guitar playing is pretty neat too!  The graphics and sound design are incredible; a perfect send-off for this generation of console games.,,Even those who don’t love the plot have to admit (if they actually played the game through) that this has some of the most incredible gaming moments ever.  I won’t give too many details away, but there’s a scene where Joel takes Ellie to Wyoming Museum, and it was one of the most incredible scenes I’ve ever seen in a game.,,The game also does a masterful job of introducing compelling characters. Jesse, Dina, Abby, Owen and Lev are all fantastic new characters - many of whom could figure into possible sequels.  You may hate Abby in the beginning but I bet you won’t by the end!  In fact there's too much story and too many new characters to appreciate in one playthrough; this game’s depth would lend itself to multiple playthroughs.,,The game isn’t perfect.  It’s a bit too long in parts, the plot drags a bit around the middle before picking up again towards the end. As pointed out in reviews, you do develop "kill fatigue" by the end - obviously intentioned by designers but it's still real.  The dissonance between your characters' realizations that revenge and killing is a cycle that goes on forever unless you change and grow, vs. the fun mechanics of mowing down a room of bad guys with guns and explosives - I don’t know how to grapple with that one.,,You could also say the gameplay mechanics aren't different enough from TLOU part 1, but then again think of the development across four Uncharted games; the improvements in TLOU2 are pretty solid for a direct sequel.,,So, looking back on the game -  as I was wrapping up the campaign, in a sense I was pushing forward, exhausted, trying to finish the game.  But once it was over, and Ellie was playing her guitar (or trying to at least), I couldn’t wait to experience the story again.
2119) This is a masterpiece. Of course the backdrops and gameplay are wonderful but it's all of the intangibles of the storyline and characters that make this special. There was a real sensitivity to the way the characters were developed and I loved being on this journey with them. In particular the character of Abby (who I originally hated!) is one of the best characters I've ever seen in a video game. There is an important message in this game about the futility of violence and revenge - ironically the infected come across as the most humane group in the game. This is truly an exceptional game and it's subtlety will unfortunately be lost on many gamers. They should probably stick to Call of Duty and leave the layers of depth to the rest of us.
2120) A masterful story of revenge and hatred accompanied by excellent gameplay and a story that left my jaw dropped on the floor. While I knew most of what was going to happen going into the game, the way it plays out was still shocking and brilliant. The ending is one of the best endings I've ever experienced in a game. It's quiet and subtle and I am still thinking about it three weeks after beating it. The first game is one of my favorites of all time but I think I actually preferred this to the first one. Sue me. This is an amazing satisfying sequel that subverts expectations and gives the players something haunting yet thought-provoking. No way this doesn't end up being my game of the year.
2121) This game is a test. A test by ND to see if gamers have two things. Embathy and emotional intelligence. It is possible to not like a game..But is impossible to have those two things and not apreciate this proof that videogames have matured and have taken the next step towards art. It presents violence in an extend that is never presented before..and in the end through that, it gives us a lesson..that everything is in our minds and when we get to reconciliate with ourselves we are going to do that with the others...This game brutally presents that when we do something its ok, but when someone else does it...we cant put ourselves in their shoes...I m grateful that i have played this masterpiece..i hope more games will take such many risks and brake more emotional walls...
2122) Regardless if you like the decisions the developers made with the story, the choices are forged so intricately and with so much emotion in a way that only naughty dog can do. When you pair this with some of the best visuals and gameplay mechanics on a console game, it really is a piece of art as it is much a game, and not everyone can appreciate art.
2123) It's the best survivor game i ever played and best story, thanks from Naughty Dog
2124) I've basically come here to defend this game. But having played it through in it's entirety, I have to say I loved it. It's a very engaging, emotional journey - with many twists and turns. This game in essence is a story of tragedy, loss, revenge and forgiveness. I loved watching the characters progress and change over time. Ultimately, I found this game's story better than the first and was genuinely heartbroken once I reached the end because I wanted more. The gameplay is more accessible and fluid, I really enjoyed the ability to take so many directions with this game and almost every encounter can be done in multiple ways. The animation, the music, the art is brutal and beautiful. It really hits home the time and care the creators put into this game because every inch is wonderfully detailed. I expect to play this again soon so I can find all the hidden gems and micro-plots spread throughout. Highly recommend this game, 10/10
2125) The greatest game I have ever played Thank you everyone at Naughty Dog for creating this masterpiece
2126) Excellent graphics.,Good gameplay.,Heartbreaking story.,,Really, I like this story, these characters and, especially, the ending.,And... Joel forever in my heart.
2127) I really can't help but feel the people who have "problems" with the story, missed the entire point of the first game.  For instance Joel is not a horrible character, but he is definitely not a "good guy."  If you thought the first game was just about a father and daughter murdering 1000 people and somehow being "good people," then you did not understand core points of the initial game's story.  Seriously go back to simplistic shooters where you kill faceless waves of nobodies.  This game is for adults.,,For those who understood and truly loved the first game, you have 3 The Last of Us Games worth of content when it comes to the gameplay in this sequel.  Additionally, while the original story was more simplistic in its goals, and thus easier to be a simple success....TLoU2 attempts (and succeeds) at being a more profound story. Unforgettable, and hard to put down while you are playing.
2128) NaughtyDog give most aspect about mankind. Even last group of human, human still be human.
2129) One of the best games good story good action good characters play it you will like it
2130) It left me speechless.  I would never have expected such a game.  We start from the graphics, EXCELLENT, to leave me speechless, nature, ruined buildings, landscapes etc ... Really breathtaking graphics, to look real.  Excellent audio and video, indescribable gameplay, really fun and engaging, with new techniques for hiding, the guards with dogs, the infected, more detailed with very beautiful and detailed animations, also I like the idea of ​​the new infected 'Shembler'.  Plot that is spectacular, engaging, fun, moving, which makes you reflect on some choices that Ellie and Abby make.  I finished it yesterday, I had chills all over, I cried, and I reasoned.  Really well done to Ashley Johnson, and all the cast who starred in a great way.  But above all I do my best to Neil Druckmann and the whole team of Naughty Dog for the masterpiece you have made.  It doesn't deserve all these bad reviews.  I recommend it.
2131) I bought ps4 just because of this game, and it was worth every penny... I played in row TLOU part 1 and part 2, and clearly I can say that I've never played anything like this... 10/10 for me and that's it, I have no more words for that... Iam just speachless..
2132) Very reminiscent of dark south korean films. A harrowing thought-provoking masterpiece. You just have to understand the story and take it in deep.
2133) The Last of US Part II is a master piece. It’s one of the best games I’ve ever played.
2134) The Last of Us Part II, is once again a heart aching journey of loss, love, sacrifice, anger, forgiveness and so much more in an emotionally heavy story and gameplay. It puts the players in completely uncharted land to help deliver a story that heavily questions our motives, our reality and our feelings.,The Last of Us Part II is a masterpiece.
2135) Although I managed to dodge the leaks and spoilers, I was so nervous to play this game. I am not a gamer and TLOU is the only game I've ever played and completed. I was so scared that I would hate this because of the negativity online and whispers of a terrible storyline. Now, I am so relieved that I loved this game. Obviously the things that happened early on in the game were going to cause deep and raw emotional reactions, and they were meant to. I truly don't understand how people can accuse this game of bad writing or story telling. It's a tale of survivors and makes you second guess yourself as a player. I think people held onto their anger at Joel's death just to spite themselves. It wasn't thrown in early to rush it, it was to catch you off guard. He didn't get a hero's ending not because he's not hero (whether he is or isn't is debatable), but because it's unrealistic. People only want realism when it suits them.,It's an amazing game. An exploration of loss and forgiveness and love and hate. I signed up just to give this one more good review.
2136) I think the game is good only thing the ending feels empty but anything else is fantastic. I hate people who hates a game they didn’t play
2137) In the genre of 'zombies' or 'Apocalyptica', the premise of killing off characters should never be off the table. It's this freedom that makes the consumer feel the intensity that these environments would realistically give.,,In this case, the writers have fully exploited this trope. But now - it's you, the gamer, who has to carry out the plot. In the first bit of the game, you have to watch a yet unknown character brutally beat someone to death. Not only that but later in the game, you have to play as that would-be villain.,,I think the best stories aren't just entertaining. They're also enlightening. This is an enlightening story. And by the end, I felt guilty and sad for Ellie. But that's OK. She's not real. But at that moment, the gameplay and story up to that gave me an opportunity to escape and feel for something.,,I probably won't replay this game for a while. I didn't feel nice and warm in the end. But that's OK. And that's why I'm rating it 10/10.
2138) IMO it's the one of the best game i have played in my life. Graphics, Gameplay were amazing and Story was not better than the first one but still Story was great. I liked the dark and brutal theme of the game. Still it's a solid game. Hope it will win Goty this year. Naughty Dog deserves it.
2139) I loved the first one and I love the second one, it's story, the way it's told, the characters and their development and the End.
2140) This game is amazing! The story is thrilling and invigorating. The mechanics are interesting and tense. The characters really feel like they have a personality and they can be very relatable. I love this game! Well done naughtydog for the incredible visuals and amazing storytelling! You have done a great job!
2141) Loved this game, best one on ps4 period. Imo ofc. Don't get the hate, it was a bleak and sad world from the start, this is just a logical continuation of the first one. Thank you Naughty Dog for creating   wonderful  games
2142) As always, Naughty Dog manages to create a masterpiece with an extraordinary combination of story and narration, both engaging and powerful, with an amazing gameplay and stunning graphics, also having a truly spectacular attention to detail. The best game ever.
2143) For sure the best game I have ever played by now. It's LGBTQ+ representation is AMAZING it's not forced like everyone said. Abby's redemption was incredible, she and Lev became one of my favorite characters in the game. Totally a 10/10 must play
2144) Unlike many others, i thought the game was incredible because of how much it plays with our emotions. From the start to the end!
2145) i went in to this game with an open mind, not like others hating on the homosexual stuff or Abby's physical, I've seen girls that big! The game is an awesome ride of feelings, i had to stop playing sometimes because it was just too much, if you are not running from your life, you are hiding from something or attacking full rage directly, the surprises takes you with a big hit over and over and the characters deaths really takes you by surprise, I'm so glad i skipped all kind of spoilers before, yes i understand the anger against playing Abby, but i just let go of feelings and played what the director and writers wanted me to see. you really have to try it, to live it by yourself!
2146) Its a great game, if you are not a incel or a Joel's widow, you Will like it. A lot.
2147) Story & characters are fantastic.  It wasn't the fanfic wet dream that the complainers wanted (btw this is the same grouped that would have complained about Vader being Luke's father and Leah being his sister).  It challenged you as the player.  It put you in different people's shoes.  It left you asking more questions than answers.  I have never been so challenged by a game's story.   Beautiful. Emotional.  A masterpiece.  Enter with an open mind an be blown away.  (Yes, I was also a complete lover of the first 2 installments.  played through both several times.  Truly does not disappoint.).  Played through a 2nd time almost immediately so that I could savor the subtle elements of the story and the character's development.
2148) If you don't like this scenario? you can play other scenario in other game.,It is fiction. Please don't be serious. just play.,You are not Joel & Ellie.
2149) The masterpiece of videogames, I can surely say this is the best game ever made
2150) Don’t listen to the fake negative reviews. If you’re a fan of the original then the second will not disappoint.
2151) Hands down best singe player game ever created.. story is good.. I don't know about the negative reviews but you guys are a bunch of **** this is how good it can get.
2152) The best game I have ever played, the story and the effects are amazing, and santaolalla made a piece of art in his music.,To sum up this game is a masterpiece
2153) One word, just one word - perfection !!! Thanks God I did not spoiled myself with all the leaks. Definitely Game Of The Year !!!
2154) The last of us part II truly changed the way I look at games. This was not only a game but a cinematic masterpiece. I loved the gameplay so much but I was extremely excited to get to the next cutscene. Ellie’s journey through Seattle really tested me. I began to see Ellie not as the sweet yet brutal little girl she was in the first game. This game really shines the light on her brutal side excluding some light moments with Dina. When the game switched over to abby I was a little frustrated. I don’t want to play through the her whole side of the story. But as it went along, I began to enjoy it more and more. The introduction of uses and lev really put the cherry on top for abbys side. At the end of the game I was heartbroken for Ellie. I wanted the best for her and to see what happened to her really hurt me. But as I digested the story I understood that Ellie really deserved what happened. I understood that Ellie, Abby, and Joel all did things that were awful. I still like Ellie more than abby but I was able to understand Abby more than I ever thought I would. The last of us part II is truly a masterpiece. A huge congratulations to Neil and the whole team at naughty dog. You have accomplished something no other game has ever done for me. I have never felt more emotion in a game then I did in this one. Bravo naughty dog, bravo.
2155) I loved the detail of the face his arms and the last fight was awesome. The emotion that they put on the cinematics of Ellie and Joel was breath taking
2156) Playing this game made me think and feel things that I haven't encountered in life.,It left a mark on me and I'm thinking about it long after I've finished it.
2157) I have played the first The last of Us on PS3 and I wanted to replay it on PS4 before Playing Part 2, I loved the first TLOU and the DLC left behind is a short but meaningful story, I finished my second playthrough of the first game the day before i started playing part 2 and I was glad I did that. Part 2 is exactly that, a continuation of the first game but it has better but familiar gameplay and you feel at home with controls. Many dialogues can be missed if you haven't played the first like when Ellie tells that they once met a guy called Bill who used to plant bombs all over his town or when she was captured by people who used to eat their victims. Great acting and the story isn't obvious, never felt to know how it would go on. The game makes you feel many emotions and makes you even stop playing it because you don't want carry on, you don't agree with what is happening but this is the beauty of this game, within hours or minutes it makes you feel opposite emotions and makes you hate yourself for hating certain characters only because you didn't agree with them because of the lack of understanding and knowledge of their background and motivations. I loved the story but what I loved most was that this game brought up so many emotions, not all positives but also negatives, that i can't say many games are able to do so. Part 2 goes deeper in the story and gets better gameplay to the point that the first TLOU looks like a demo, just a taste of what ND wanted to tell and show with this games.
2158) This game is AMAZING, the way Ellie and Abby stories intertwined up until the final fight is fantastic. gameplay is awesome, story is awesome and apart from being "too brutal" at some points, I don't understand why people would hate on it.
2159) **** them, this is a god damn masterpiece,Playing it is the best decision I made this year,Most of the negative reviews are just made by people who don't accept a new character to show up and see the old one dies in the way that's not dramatic as they wish,Which is dumb
2160) What a game , it has some seriously wtf moments , but Naughty dog studies made a master piece, love or hate the ending , the game takes u to a journey like no other, thank you for creating this marvelous game ! It looks like a tremendous amount of time and effort was invested to develop it, I enjoy my 28 hours playing the whole story :) might even do the + run.
2161) A whole lot of questions, but there's no room for questions in the human eye, and a great piece of work is enough to see the sparkle, the highlight. You can ignore a lot of issues. If a player's vote now can contribute to what kind of game they will play later, then I have to give TLOU2 full marks for I want to play more of these games, not the stereotypical, gamer-pleasing generic commercial 3A.
2162) The best game I ever player.,Next gen graphics. Exciting story.,It's a masterpiece.
2163) The game is not for everyone, you need a level of maturity in order to understand it and also try to be open minded during the entire gameplay if you want to have the experience that this game wants to give you. One thing that I can guarantee you is that this game is not about revenge, but about consequences. Try to accept that all characters are human, the game will constantly remind you that.
2164) Thoroughly enjoyed this game from start to finish. Have played through it twice and thought the story, characters, gameplay and overall experience were great. I truly think this game is on par with the first and will be considered a masterpiece when people look back at it in the future .
2165) Incredible game.,This is the first time I am writing a review because the rating of the game is undeservedly low.,I understand people who rate 5-7, they did not like the plot, this is normal.,But to put the game 0 right on the day of release, without even playing it, seriously?,The technical execution of the game is at the highest level. The facial expressions of the characters are just something incredible, emotions over the edge. Especially, of course, in the Ellie-Joel scenes.,I will not talk about the plot, some like it, some don't. For me personally, the pluses outweighed all the minuses, and the pluses, of course, are Ellie-Joel's scenes.,The ending is simply heartbreaking. And very grown up. And very, very sad. But I did not see anything illogical in this. It seems to me that everything is on the case. Everybody lost!,Except for the players, of course)),An ocean of emotions. Brilliant game.
2166) The end of this journey is catharsis at its finest. To my interpretation, people that didn't get the ending of this one didn't understand or completely idealize the ending of part 1 which of course would result in them completely unsatisfied with the sequel. The amount of symbolism & catharsis that you get as a spectator along with Ellie by the end is one of the most dynamic & fulfilling interactions I've ever had the pleasure to experience within this character-spectator bond. Whether you loved or completely disliked the game, something undeniable is how the story will linger on your mind for the better or for worse which will continue to make it a game that gives a lot to talk about for the years ahead, that in itself makes it once again the game of the generation, not to mention how it arrives at the most fitting time ever however this is a factor that will result in both its blessing & its curse since its final message revolves around mental peace something that many people throughout  2020 have struggled to connect with the most.
2167) Incredible story all the way through. Perfectly deals with the fallout of the first game while also introducing deep and interesting new characters. The performances and animations are the absolute top of the medium.,Gameplay is also amazing. While not a traditional stealth game, it has some of the best stealth gameplay ever, with smart, dynamic AI that forces you to always be moving thinking a few steps ahead.,Way to go Naughty Dogs, this team should be very proud.
2168) Dont follow the internet!!! Because this game is truly a masterpiece. I know certain decisions which were taken by the game may upset the gamers ( Even for me for a while). But believe me once you complete this game you ll feel so emotional and cry over the cinematics which the game offers you.
2169) This game was deep and rich in story. the supporting casts made the game more powerful and how everyone of them had a chimed in how the two girls developed. the ending was satisfying and left it open for the next installment. for the people giving it a bad review couldnt handle the game they thought it would be.
2170) Simply one of the greatest, most absorbing experiences I have had with a story, even though its gameplay is maybe just a little step better than the first game (although far, far more visually impressive); it doesn't matter in my opinion, because the story experience is so groundbreaking and thought-provoking. Some people hate this game because Naughty Dogs made some daring decisions in terms of timeline, the structure, and the flow of the story, as well as the diversity of characters and how they are presented.
2171) Is not a game is a master piece, it puts in another level the experience that you feel when you finish it
2172) Really gorgeous game with some bold narrative choices. It's not easy to love this brutal and complicated revenge story when you're comparing it to the more endearing and hope-chasing first game, but I'm glad I was able to enjoy this whole game spoiler-free. So many people tried to tell me that the writing was bad and new characters are awful and it's simply not true. Think of it as more of a Hemmingway character exploration rather than Shakesperian twist. I played on hard and enjoyed the gameplay as well. Looking forward to new games +.
2173) I think this game has one of the best stories that I have seen in video games and movies. The gameplay is also pretty good, the camera controls can get annoying for some of the boss fights but not so much that would take away from the gameplay.
2174) This was one of the best game from Naughty Dog I ever played in my life. The story is beautifully written and told, I mourned the loss of Joel, it made me emphatize when I didn't wanna to, with a Abby, whom I really disliked for a major chunk of the game. Then I understood, I second guessed the decision of Ellie, which I saw destroyed by the loss and hunger of blood. I just wanted her to stop and find peace with Dina, no more tears no more hurt.,The game is well paced and it's a natural upgrade from the first one, which I loved too. Thanks Naughty Dog for this game. I really appreciated it.
2175) Game is a 10/10. Don’t let anyone tell you otherwise. Don’t enter a hate train. Play a game it is worth every second od your time.
2176) Based in a post apocalyptic setting with zombies you can expect to be in some uncomfortable situations where it is kill or be killed. With that said mistakes where made in the previous game that forces you to see both sides of the conflict. This is a brutal complex story where the protagonist and antagonist often switch sides and nobody comes out unscathed. Im glad naughtydog had the guts to make this type game and I hope future games won't be soften up because of the gamers that don't understand retaliation, revenge and mercy.
2177) i loved that game for me one of the best emotional game since part 1. I feel really bad for Ellie.
2178) Passed the game that week and I was satisfied. Glad for the Naughty Dog, they created a cool game, and a good storyline.
2179) Incredible storytelling...incredible graphics and gameplay. Those who are so upset with the game simply are mad things didn't go their way
2180) Awesome gameplay, better than the first. Story was a rollercoaster, i loved it. Only good things to say! I wish there was a 3rd.
2181) One of the best games of the decade. Gameplay and sound 10/10. A good story, after which there is an impenetrable void.
2182) A masterpiece. The immersion in history is brutal. All the details are very careful, spectacular Graphics. The gameplay is good but not the best, sure it will be fixed in some patch. If you really like video games, you will love it in every way.
2183) Excellent from start to finish. Such an emotional rollercoaster. Ellie and Abby are two sides of the same coin. Joel had such an impact on their lives in two very different ways.
2184) The best game i swear. i never played in game like this, it's just super cool ;DD
2185) If I could describe this game with only one word I'd choose "risky". And I think Naughty Dog knew that it would be in terms of the story and structure. There will be many people who will despise the game because of the ending and story structure. You really have to keep an open mind playing this game for the first time, otherwise you are going to end up disappointed. Not because of the game itself. Gameplay was quite the same as the first game, and in my opinion I'm glad they didn't change much to it. It feels like you're continuing on from the first game which is great! The story will definitely divide players as some people expect a different ending for Joel and Ellie's adventure. I seriously recommend not having any expectations at all and instead look for life-changing symbolism throughout your playthrough. This game will absolutely change how you think about certain situations in real life. Prepare to get your mind blown and your eyes in tears.
2186) Masterpiece! This game is one of my personal favorite game all of time. Buy it, if you want play only perfect video-game!
2187) It's not a game, it's a movie. Really amazing. Congratulations for their courage.
2188) excellent game, game play and graphic is doing great, story line is acceptable, hope will get TLOU 3 in future
2189) This is the best game of the generation technically speaking. The game improves everything in the first one. The history is very powerful. A must play for everyone
2190) Just play this game, have your own opinion about it, this game really worth it. You probably have a lot of questions and concerns about the story when it starts, but when it comes to it finish, everything clears and you finally understand why it all was designed that way.
2191) The plot is something extraordinary. Naughty Dog managed to bring the gameplay to another level.
2192) This game… It managed to broke me and at the same time give reasons to live. I literally cried in the end because I really love Ellie and Joel and it hurts to see what happened to them. Their relationship meant so much to me and now they are just gone… I understand why Joel did what he did in part 1. Ellie was all he had, so he couldn't lost her like he lost Sarah. So he saved her. Killed for that. But you know what? I don't care. Because... I would do exactly the same thing. A little girl was alive. Even if it was just for a few years, she was happy. So for me, it was all worth it.,I wanted Abby to be dead. But then Ellie would lost herself and I don’t want that for her. Joel wouldn’t want that for her. He always protected her from this cruel world and wanted her to stay that happy sarcastic kid. She gave him a light that he thought was gone forever. She gave that light to me, I learnt to enjoy small things, just to be happy with what I have. Cause one day it may just not be here anymore.,TLoU showed me how brutal people can be. And how they can change. Once, at the end of the fight, there was one women left unarmed. She begged for mercy. But i killed her. I knew that if I let her live, she would shoot me in the back. Just one death of hundreds, but it really got me. It felt real. Like I really killed someone. At that moment I realised that people in that world don’t always want to be cruel. It’s like “kill or be killed”, you just don’t really have a choice. I will never forgive Abby, but I understand why she did what she did. So as I understand Ellie. She couldn’t let it go. She knew that everything is gone too far, but just couldn’t stop. And I’m happy that, eventually, she could.,This is amazing game. I’ve never experienced anything like that. After part 2 I replayed the first game and all those moments with Joel, every their dialogue, it felt so nice seeing them together again, but also sad, cause I know how it’s gonna end…These games taught me to appreciate life and see the light even if I feel lost and empty in this **** dark around. So thanks, Naughty Dog, for giving me that.
2193) this game is amazing the game play the characters the grapics they were all amazing except the story it wasnt that good but its still fun to play in my opinon :)
2194) I know quite a few are hating on the story telling, but I think it was great! I’m playing through a second time now and can’t get enough!
2195) Despite the off-putting storytelling, I applaud the rest of the game’s efforts in its minute details and the love and care which went into the world-building.
2196) I've been playing video games for well over 20 years, and never before has a video game touched me this deeply on so many levels. This video game let's you experience it all: dread, grief, hatred, anger, confusion but also love, affection empathy, hope. It is perfect and in my opinion truly a masterpiece. It is more than just a game but rather a piece of art. It has lifted the art of video game storytelling to a completely new level that I believe will inform the industry for years to come.,,Let me go through the relevant aspects one by one.,,Story: Simply stunning. Obviously the story is what drives this game. Never before have there been so many plot twists and moments where I was like...."WTH IS HAPPENING."...and completely surprised and moved. I was among the lucky ones to not have experienced any spoilers before release, so I was completely blown away be the story. But even if you did experience some spoilers, I still believe that the game is worth your time. You need to experience it yourself in order to fully understand the power of the story and the chraracters' progressions and development. Never has a game succeeded this perfectly at making you identify and empathize with the main characters and relive their feelings this intensely. The fact that I, as a 30 year old who has consumed quite a large amount of media and literary content, have been dreaming of this game every night for almost two weeks, is testament to how well the game manages to draw you into its world. This never happened to me before.,,Addressing the critics: The large amount of negative reviews is clearly due to review bombing. Unfortunately, our gaming culture has a problem with a large and very vocal minority of bigoted, mostly male player who are not open enough to identify with women or LGBT+ characters. They simply can't get over the fact that after 40 years the gaming industry is finally ready to tell stories of people other than white, western men. Hence, these reviews are to a large extent driven by misogyny and homo- and transphobia.,,I assure you that if you keep an open mind and truly care about the characters, which you will, if you enjoyed part 1 and aren't a total sociopath, the story will deeply affect you - irrespective of your gender or background. As in most pieces of art and in real life, things happen in the story that you wish were different. But art is not about pleasing the audience. It is about triggering deep reflection on what it means to be human. And this game achieves just that.,,Graphics: Absolutely stunning! You can see that the developers pushed the PS4 hardware to the absolute limit. The lighting, the vegetation, and especially the character models and facial expressions are next level. Exploring rainy and misty Seattle and roaming through lush, green overgrowth truly immerses you in this world. The same goes for dark tunnels or minutely recreated neighbourhoods and downtown areas. On more than one occasion have I just stood around to take the bittersweet beauty of the world in.,,Gameplay: Everything that we loved from part 1, but better! More challenging and intense fighting (especially melee fights). Way better opponent and companion AI. Better weapons and more noticeable weapon upgrades. A more motivating and satisfying skill progression arc. Simply exploring long abandoned buildings is a lot of fun. Also because of the notes and collectibles that are scattered throughout the game and give additional context to the story and different factions (significantly more so than in the last game). This is reinforced by the amazingly detailed conversations the characters have while exploring the levels.,,Sound: The sound effects and soundtrack is truly amazing. The composer, Gustavo Santaolalla, is a genius. The soundtrack is an important element for reinforcing the feeling and experience that the game invokes. I'd definitely recommend playing with good headphones.,,Overall: The game is the best game I've ever experienced. I've intentionally said experienced, because at some point in the story it is not even about having fun anymore. It is about touching our humanity and challenging our identity as a person. Never has a game required this much of me to the point were I had to take breaks, because it was emotionally exhausting. As I said, a true masterpiece that I can recommend. Thank you to Naughty Dog for creating this wonderful piece of art. I hope there'll be a part 3!!
2197) This is really looks like next gen game I like how facial expressions looks so perfect in this game, the graphics was good, real good, the gameplay was better than any other linear game in this generation, tbh the world of the last of us is boring, the only thing that made the first game was masterpiece is because the development character was perfect, they made us care for Ellie and Joel, that's the only thing I didn't found on the sequel.
2198) Amazing game, although I might be a bit bias because of my unconditional admiration towards first game. Characters in Part 2 are not as interesting as they should have been, but overall when I think of this game, 10/10 is the only score that comes to mind.
2199) After being a huge fan of the first game I was eager to play the second to say the least, Ellie and Joel are two of my favourite characters from any game and I know tlou2 has had a lot of criticism but for me personally I loved the game from start to finish, the gameplay is perfection  and effortless, each chapter of the story offers you something slightly different and your surroundings are magnificently done with even fine details not being missed. Yes some of the story frustrated me to a point that I rushed through some of it just to get back to Ellie but by the time I completed it I fully understood why they made me play through as Abby and the final fight had me rooting for both characters ( im still team Ellie) and not to mention the infected are still as intense and combat with the different groups is very fun, each group giving you a different challenge. So yes the first game was amazing! But this second one is definitely better even though we lost our beloved Joel ( which broke my heart ) there's as much heart to it as the first one with more skill and drive to get you were you need to be, big thumbs up from me!
2200) I understand why this game is divisive. It is very different from the first game in terms of cast, the journey and the way the whole narrative takes shape.,However for me this game is an extraordinary follow up to the original. It takes the fundamental question that the original left you wrestling with - the morality of Joel’s decision and actions to save Ellie at the cost of so many others - and let’s the player unpack it alongside Ellie across a tumultuous revenge tale. It’s thematically consistent with the original but looks at the same themes through the lens of new characters that will shock when they’re introduced by warm your heart - if your open to them - by the end. It is in effect anti-fan service, and given that I do understand why so many who love the first game might have trouble stomaching this one. Games are subjective, and this game takes some very deliberate risks that are certain to put off some people.,Apart from the narrative, this game has gifted us with one of the most amazing survival horror/stealth action gameplay sandboxes of all time. I was not a particular fan of the gameplay in the first game, but this game truly took all of the potential of the first one and maximized it in ways that kept me glued to the screen my entire play through.,This game uses its gameplay to service the story and themes in ways I’ve not sure I’ve seen before on this scale. It will always be divisive, but it will always go down for me is a masterpiece.
2201) I'm all up for constructive critique, but some of the negative reviews up here are just borderline ridiculous. No matter if you liked the story or not, the technical aspects (graphics, visuals and animations) are mind-blowing, the atmosphere is amazing (some parts of the game are outright terrifying), the environments feel as real as technology enables, the gameplay is fun and intense and i don't think theres much to say about Gustavo Santaolalla's fantastic soundtrack.,,One can argue about taste, but to call this well-crafted piece of entertainment garbage or rating it anywhere below 4 or 5 just boggles my mind, especially considering how modern mainstream gaming is overshadowed by big companies producing stale and repetitive games over and over again and just changing the name tag (miraculously getting better user ratings than this).,,All things aside, the story is extremely dark, violent and ruthless and i deeply admire Naughty Dog for taking a rather unconventional path. It just seems as if most people were upset about the first 5 hours and didn't even try to experience the game with an open mind, let alone try to take a somewhat objective stance on what the developers were trying to convey. People who dismiss the game as just another dull revenge story seemed to miss that it's much more than that. The story deals with guilt, regret and forgiveness, and more often than not kept me thinking about certain values in life. The game does a great job on making you feel that sweet pain, slowly burning and getting more intense up until the point the credits roll around 35 hours later (on hard difficulty - highly recommended). It really feels like a maturation process for Ellie.,,The game has an unusual tension arc and often relies on flashbacks (probably the best scenes of the game), but as the story goes on, you will really appreciate what the game is trying to make you feel, considering you want to feel it. It also does a great job on expanding the TLOU-universe and creating some interesting new perspectives. In my opinion, the characters motives are reasonable and the legacy of the first game is carried on with dignity. I love games that stick to me even after the credits roll and TLOU 2 did just that. I just needed to get that off my chest after seeing how divided the reactions were. I'm glad to call it one of my favorite games on PS4, right behind the remastered version of the first game.
2202) This Is such a good secuel and excelent game, people are just soooo stupid.
2203) Brilliant absolutely loved it. The people who say that the story and the ending is **** then they dont fckin understand whats it about. And it makes me so angry that some people downvote the game because there are lesbians in it. Disgusting. I feel really sorry for Naughty Dog rn.
2204) Make no mistake, this game got review bombed to hell. Even if I despised the story, the gameplay is so phenomenal it would probably rank at an 8 at least. Encounters are filled with dozens of enemies spanning across entire streets of buildings, lining rooftops, searching rooms. Avoiding detection isn’t impossible but certainly difficult, and once you’re spotted the game turns into a desperate game of wits and survival, where you’re forced to make the saving shot, saving dodge, saving throw with an inch of health or one bullet left.... over and over and over again. This is one of the only games I’ve played where my character’s exhaustion mirrored my own. The fights are long, difficult, stressful, and mentally taxing. It’s the best depiction I’ve ever seen of one person fighting insurmountable odds in a video game, ever. The story is beyond incredible as well, provided you have the emotional maturity for it. Characters you love and connect to will die in brutal, unfair ways completely out of your control. Characters will make decisions you wish they wouldn’t, and consequences for previous actions, whether they were justified or not, inevitably make their ways to the characters with zero remorse. It’s a hard thing to watch, but the story is one that will stick with me for the rest of my life. Overall, the complaints I have are minute compared to the praises. There are certain plot points that feel rushed, or things that could have been explained more fully. But they won’t hinder the absolute **** 20+ hour experience that is The Last of Us 2. There is nothing like this game and I doubt there ever will be again. Don’t let the haters ruin this for you, try it out yourself!
2205) I don't really know what to say that hasn't already been said about this game. Personally it was the most emotionally driven game I've ever played. It took a few days to sink in. I've never cried after playing a game but I did with this game. There are moments of deep sorrow, rage, and beauty. And it left me changed for the better.
2206) I loved every second of it. This game made me feel a plethora of emotions which I still think about and analyze. This is what I need from modern gaming. I feel bad for people who genuinely did not enjoy the game, but I am sure many simply decided they would not like it no matter what and thus ruined the entire experience and meaning of the game for themselves (which is a huge shame). 10/10 for me, an absolute masterpiece in every way. I need more of this!
2207) The game is an absolute masterpiece , the gameplay, the story , the music and also the graphics are amazingly tied together, I enjoyed my time playing this game
2208) Great game, very immersive. Makes you feel things and think about your actions. Left me devastated, but in a good way: it’s rare to feel something really strong playing a video game, but with this game you’ll feel everything
2209) The last of us part II is worth 9.9 points. There is no so-called white washing, but a description of a selfish Avenger Abby who has lost everything. The last forgiveness is to forgive Joel and untie her own heart knot. She saw Joel and her shadow in Abby and LEV, which also means that Ellie finally understood the sentence "if I have a second chance, I will do that again". In the process of recording her revenge in her diary, Allie kept revealing that she sometimes forgot about revenge, but felt guilty, She even thought that Joel would hope that she would not take revenge. She was full of contradictions about revenge. Later, she could not remember Joel's appearance clearly. Once she recalled the bloody scene, she grabbed Abby and recalled Joel's face. The night before she died, she said to Joel that I would never forgive you in my life, but I would like to give it a try, which is also for Abby. Finally, I went back to the farm and drew a picture of Joel playing the guitar in his diary, which was the perfect ending. Deduction: Jesse and Tommy's confused behavior.
2210) This game is a technical marvel. Sound and visuals are impeccable. There are views that will take away your breath, and the characters move, sound and look like real people. The sense of atmosphere is jaw dropping. There are times you can almost taste the choking spores in the air, or feel the warmth of a setting sun on your face. This is a beautiful game.,The gameplay is good, with some basic puzzle solving and platforming thrown in to add a touch of variety, but the core is the fighting. Fighting the infected is usually a tense, nervous experience, while the fights against human opponents are some of the highlights of the game. There is a genuine sense of achievement from picking off a whole group while not once raising an alarm. And if the first game scared you, this too will be no walk in the park. Hail to the king (you'll know him when you see him). If any other publisher produced a game that looked/sounded and played like this, I'd have no complaints and would be happy to give it a high rating. But it's from Naughty Dog and it's the sequel to one of my favourite games, so there's more to be considered than the technical aspects.,So is this a worthy sequel? Does the plot honour the previous game and are new characters worthy of being talked of alongside Joel and Ellie? Yes. So much yes.,This game has baggage. It has upset some people. These people enjoy being upset. If you don't like "SJW progressive propaganda" or whatever, don't play it. It's not for you, but you probably know that by now. That being said, there are bad reviews that aren't from bigots and damaged man-babies. There ARE genuine criticisms to be made about this game. I am not saying everyone that disliked it should be ignored. No piece of media can please everyone. This is an experience that will divide opinion.,I loved this game. But it is emotionally draining and incredibly unforgiving. Joel and Ellie have changed with time, but they're still the characters I loved in the previous instalment. They do things that are stupid, self destructive, selfish, vicious and illogical. And because they feel like real people, you can see why they act that way. Life isn't always logical, and they are living in a strange time with pressures we can't even begin to understand. And the new characters we meet stand up to comparison with those in the previous instalment. There are truly evil villains, heroic allies, new groups, tribes and gangs. Even the infected get a few tweaks. The new characters that have elicited most of the hate are far more complex and nuanced than the naysayers will admit. I ended up caring for them just as much as the more familiar "goodies". And as the story progresses and only one ending seems possible, the dread and horror that something you don't want to happen is inevitable is something I've never felt from a game before.,This is a rambling, waffle of a review, but I only finished the game yesterday and there's still much to process. When everything was over I was a bit of a wreck. I'd cried, sworn and got quite vocal about the actions that were being taken. I've never shouted at game characters before. THAT is how much I cared about these fictional folk.,The game has flaws. It isn't perfect. But if you buy into the story, if you care about these people, the game isn't really the point. I can't be objective about this experience. No game has effected me as much as this one. The importance of what is achieved and what it makes (many of) the players feel counteracts any of the flaws. No other game is like this, and frankly that's probably a good thing. I couldn't go through this on a regular basis.
2211) I never post reviews. This game was phenomenal. It leaves you feeling...like you must do something with the life that you have.
2212) Big risk and it paid off! Great game, great story, great visual, great gameplay. Great everything! Kudos, Naughty Dog!
2213) The game is a near perfect follow up to it's predecessor. I could stop there,It is a kick to the stomach and punch to the gut in the story department at first, but it then dawns on you... this is the apocalypse, it's not going to be sunshine and rainbows. It also challenges your positions and beliefs like the first game did, adding a whole other context to the game once you get finish it.,Plays great, looks great, that much is a given,The only gripe I slightly have is the ending, it is good enough, but it could have used something more conclusive in my opinion. But I have warmed up significantly to it over time, and it is a very minor gripe. This is my current game of the year, (Not counting Fallen Order which was screwed over by coming out late last year)
2214) Forgive me if this review is hard to understand. I'm not the best at writing.  This is my personal take on the ending and why I believe the ending was fantastic. Ellie gained her humanity by not killing abby.  She didn't kill someone out of revenge.  It took ellie hitting rock bottom to realize that this viscous cycle of hatred just needed to end. It was over.  Killing abby wouldn't bring joel back.,Abby and ellie go through the same experiences, just at different times and they handled the situations differently. Abby got her revenge in a brutal way.... but she still felt empty.  Killing joel wasn't the solution she thought it would be so ultimately she decides to go back and help Lev and Yara (the queen) as a desperate attempt at some kind of personal redemption. Also, her nightmares about the hospital continue after killing joel.... implying that getting revenge truly did not give her the closure she thought it would.   Ellie murdering abby when she's just trying to take care of lev at this point (which is similar to joel taking care of ellie) would have taken everything from her. She would have lost every part of herself that made her human.  She would have lost herself beyond redemption.  She saw a chance to keep a part of herself (her logic, common sense, human decency, hope, humanity) by not killing abby, and she took it.  She realized that the cycle had done nothing but cause death and loss to both her and abby.  Abby lost mel, Owen, Nora, and Alice.  Ellie lost joel, jj, jesse, and dina.  And in a way, abby and ellie lost a part of themselves.  Abby lost basically all of her humanity by actually taking revenge.  Ellie lost a bit of her humanity and her common sense.  She abandoned something she wanted more than anything (a happy family) just to continue the rage cycle.  However, she didn't do the same thing they did, which gave her hope and humanity. She didnt continue the viscous cycle. She became better than abby and the other WLFs.  She broke the hateful cycle.  She made a choice to save what little bit of herself she could.  In that moment, it wasn't a game about loss anymore. It was a game about hope and human decency.
2215) I created an account just so i could tell everyone.,I almost fell for the trash that people are talking about this game and thought about not buying it,but oh man... FORGET THAT EVERYONE.,It is a masterpiece...I have played many games in my life,but never found something as perfect and actually impactful,it is a game about humanity and everything that art in videogames and movies stands for.,It's not only about being a gamer,it is about being a human.,Please buy this game.
2216) Honestly when I first played it I had to sit on it for a while, in my head I gave it like a 7/10, between my emotions with Joels death and the amount of screentime on Abby I thought the game was quite flawed but still great. After thinking about it for days, looking at video essays and other opinions, I looked at my own opinion afterwards and honestly they weren’t flaws, it’s a complex game for sure but a welcome one, Abby was an interesting character and I realised Joel had more flaws than as a person than we had previously seen, Abby had good reason to hate Joel and
2217) So… I’ve finished the last of us part II today…. The game is a freaking masterpiece! Once again ND teaches how to make a GOTY (for me). And one of the best things for me is that this game shows so much respect to the first game that we loved. Let me start by the graphics there simply the best graphics that you can see in a video game right now… The game play is amazing very improved from the first last of us, I love that they added so much more stuff in the crafting and the exploration part! I loved the idea of semi open world parts that they added to the game. I really like that we can see what Ellie is thinking about everything in her journal. The notes that we find  add so much more to the game… The AI has improved a lot since the first game, it’s not perfect but it’s improved! The sounds in the game are simply so realistic and amazing! The music is art, although I would like some more! And last but not least the amazing story! There are no words to describe the story in this masterpiece! The last of us part II it’s not a game… it’s an experience, it’s a feeling, it’s art! It’s the game that leaves you with your mouth open for you only to say what did I just played… All the cut scenes of the game are breathtaking. Please do yourself a favor and go experience this masterpiece! Congratulations to ND and a big thank you for giving us the last of us part II!
2218) I feel as though that backlash to this game is unwarranted and is largely by a group of people that have a secondary motivations. The story is heartbreaking and engrossing, the perspective switch half through managed to humanize what could have been a generic villain. This game will one day be appreciated for the genius that it is much like Silent Hill 2 and MGS2.
2219) Is a masterpiece! nothing to add!!!! the most realistically speaking videogame experience I've ever played!  anyone who criticizes this game does not evaluate it in its entirety.  masterpieces like this must be absolutely played!
2220) There were moments in the Last of Us 2 that I felt genuinely  torn apart, conflicted, dreading what is about to happen, and what I am about to do.,,It took me to unexpected turns when I thought I knew what's around the corner, and then dragged me into that hell. It was gut wrenching and heart breaking.,,Somehow, it manages to turn someone you immediately wanted to kill for their despicable act they committed, to desperately wanting to save them.,,Video games often get over looked, but for me games like this? No other piece of literature or entertainment gives me the same experience, the same emotional journey. No movie, no book, nothing comes close.,,The first game had an everlasting impact on me seven years ago. I waited years for the follow up and it delivered something I didn't know I wanted.,,What's more, it didn't just give us a dark, nuanced exploration of consequence and guilt, but two totally badass, relatable female lead characters that broke every stereotype and taboo.
2221) IF I CAN SAY ONE THING IT’S DON’T LET REVIEWS STOP YOU FROM PLAYING THE GAME,I hadn’t played the original, so when this game came out decided to play them back to back for a seemless ‘TLOU’ experience. Enough has been said about the gameplay, which is excellent although not much has changed from the original..... it would have been nice for ND to have come up with something other than a nominal ‘jump’ button. Regarding the controversial story, maybe playing the games one after another made the death of Joel easier for me. I hadn’t waited 7 years to see him again, In fact it was about 24 hours after I saw him slaughter some defenceless surgeons and steal Ellie - potentially damning mankind for eternity. For me the first game was excellent - and the second game picked up exactly where that ended. Sure, they may have tried harder for more ‘shock moments’ - but the character building was realistic for a post apocalyptic work of anti-hero’s. My only true criticism of this game is the length. I was fortunate enough to have the time to play through both games in quick succession, but for a casual gamer playing a few hours here and there this would take months.A Also I felt the ending should have given the player the decision as to whether Abby lived or died - similar to Trevor in GTA. A real test as to whether ND had done enough to make the player forgive Abby (I would have killed her for sure),I’m disappointed that in a few years time, those who don’t know the controversy around this game will  see this review score and think this is an average game - because love it or hate it average is certainly not what it is.
2222) I have never played a game that made me so emotional and think about it for so long like this one, its been 3 days since a finished it and im feeling depressed and cant stop crying if i see certain scenes in the game. Talking about the game itself and not about me, its a goddamn masterpiece in terms of technical stuff; its incredible how good its made that sometimes it seems like ur watching a movie instead of a game. About the story, i really loved how the games plays with ur emotions and if u let it do it you wont regret it cause it makes u question everything that happens in the game and changes ur point of view to the point that u no longer know what u want the story lead to. The only thing a could blame this game is making u play with Abby for so long but it kinda makes sense so u would see her point of view and realise she is not the bad character of the story and Ellie isnt the good one either. I dunno it has so many details that make u really feel the game that when u finish it u feel as u lost a beloved one.
2223) Emotional roller coaster ride, alot of twist and turns , great improvement from the last game, good characters, graphics, sound is far better than any other game I played. Justice has been done to all characters the story is interesting never make you bore,But the length of game feels like it's stretched a bit long. Must play game for every PS4 owner
2224) The narrative structure is sure to be divisive, but the character and world building is on another scale from its predecessor. The sheer level of detail of each location, and the tuning of each encounter makes every step of the journey feel unique.
2225) The original Last of Us was one of my top 5 favorite games and man did the sequel deliver! I heard about the negative reviews and went it with an open mind hoping it would change my view. The opening of the game left me furious and wondering if this is what people were mad about. Then I reached the halfway point and was fuming! The shocker of having to play as the other character left me with a bad taste. I felt that maybe this was the reason people hated the game. But man as reached the ending chapters my emotions changed completely. I realized that the developers did such an amazing job baiting you into that anger and changing your perspective by the end of the game. The gameplay, graphics, and voice acting were top of the line! Kudos Naughty Dog! You outdid yourselves with this one
2226) This game is amazing! I just finished the game and it was the perfect sequel. The game is a long emotional bookend for the original game; an opportunity of showing us that every action have consequences (in this case Joel’s actions in the first game), and the devastating impact they have on Ellie, as well the world at large. Yes, you are going to have mixed feelings during the story. It is a very tragic story with two point of view. One of the point of view (Abby’s) is rough to accept at the begging, but along  the journey you will see how important it is in order to complete the message that the game want to send,,The game have amazing graphics and a great gameplay. Definitely the story of the game is something different, something much people are not used to. For me, this game is a masterpiece! Do not let that bad reviews influence in your decision of play or not play this game. Must of the people who gave bad reviews do not play the game at all and/or stayed stuck with a false expectation that they created by them self because they couldn’t evolve with the story
2227) First time writing a review for a game, and I’m doing because I feel obliged to do so after playing it twice. The way that Naughty Dog gave us a story that nobody expect it, and yet it maintains a brutal reality of the world, especially of a post-apocalyptic one where death does not only come for the “bad guy”, it’s just mind blowing.,The authenticity of the story comes in many forms, such as the typical immaturity on a teenager shown by Ellie, who reproaches Joel for taking away her chance to “matter“, failing to see the love he developed for her as a daughter and that he would have killed the world if necessary for his baby girl to live. But Ellie going to Seattle chasing the WLF members who killed Joel, and even going into a dark path of torturing people to interrogate (different than being violent in self defense for the necessity of survival), shows how much she loves Joel as a father, and how her love turned vindictive by Abby’s actions.,Or how it brings the matter of perspective as how each character could be a good guy when looking from their shoes and their motives when it comes to Abby. She just happened to be like Ellie, a girl who lost the person she loved and admired the most at the hands of a killer (Joel) who had to pay for it.,That story combined with the raw brutality and violence, and how ignorance and cruelty comes into play in the shape of cults and gangs, just make the game the best game I have ever played besides TLOU I. Thank you Naughty Dog for that story. I initially hated that Abby got to survive, but that’s just because I see and sympathized with Joel’s actions (I would murder all the Fireflies again for Ellie to live). I ultimately understand that her father was like who Joel was to Ellie, and that Ellie deciding to forgive her was part of her maturation process, that knowing why Abby came after Joel and seeing a depending Lev on Abby like she was on Joel at some point plus the flashback of Joel, made her at the last second forgive her.
2228) Great game!!! This is a great game. A work of art, a catchy storyline, thoughtful characters, graphics, sound, music, everything is done at the highest level. Thanks to everyone who did! Leaves a mark on the heart forever. head and shoulders above everything that came out in this generation of consoles!
2229) A very dark sequel to The Last of Us that kicks the player in the gut and never comprises its doom-and-gloom vision. Yes, I'd probably do things differently with the story, but I'm not the author. Neil Druckmann and his production team have crafted a survival game that really pushes the limits of the PS4 and the drama of interactive entertainment. Lots of fans of the previous game will hate the decisions made. They'll complain about the finale. But if you're on board with Druckmann, then you'll experience one harrowing 30 hour journey. This sequel makes the first "Last of Us" look like a Disney movie in comparison. It is violent, creepy, morbid and filled with misguided characters that don't render any sympathy. Ellie is no longer the plucky person from the original game, but a broken person seeking revenge. The message that Druckmann tries to drive home falls a little flat at the climax, but he deserves kudos for pushing the genre. Gameplay-wise, this is the "The Last of Us" meets "Uncharted: The Lost Legacy" with even more variety of the infected. It's a huge game and very impressive although some would call it more-of-the-same. But as much of a threat as the "zombies" are, they're nothing but a backdrop to the human misery. This game is more about the result of cold-blooded revenge than anything else. It has the darkness of the Negan storyline from The Walking Dead and the coldness of a Cormac McCarthy novel. Many fans will find to be unappealing, but LOU 2 is also one of the best PS4 exclusives ever made. While not perfect, I would rate it with a 10 out of 10.    .
2230) The gameplay is amazing, the story is very good! It kept me interested at all times. The story might not be for everyone, but that doesn't make it trash! Don't listen to all the negative reviews, this game is amazing and a must play!
2231) Loved everything about this game. The art, the sound, characters, gameplay, story. Played it twice through back to back.
2232) A very beautiful game in all aspects. Don’t pay attention to the negative reviews if you’re considering buying the game, they’re either from mindless sheep who  go out of their way ho hate on things they don’t understand, or bots from the same people just described.
2233) I loved the characters and the vibe of the game the only mistake is playing as appy for 12h
2234) Metacritic no longer a viable source for reviews. It is not a 0/10 game period. Just like Facebook its time for a new platform. Trolls will be saying ghost of tsushima is 0/10 next when it's clearly not. Apparently one of the actors was getting death threats...... From last of us 2.  Absolutely pathetic!! Video games are by far the best medium of entertainment, why try and destroy with hate and jealously. Without superb games like this I'd be lost watching crapy TV and looking at photos of friends sloppy dinners on Facebook. Trolls embrace the artistical brilliance of story tellers unbounded cameras and film. Play it before condemning it, you are modern day digital cancer.
2235) Its a great game i sayed it like a old fan naughty dog games studios and old player
2236) Simply incredible. No other game has made have so many feelings and made me feel so inverse in the story like this game does.
2237) What makes a game "good"? I think that's a big source of the divide here. Do people have to like a game for it to be good ? Your answer to that will probably answer what you rate this game. (And I don't mean "enjoy" or even "have fun"--LIKE is my very deliberate word choice),,I absolutely loved the first one. And I also quite liked the second one, but not as much. I know because I'm not as compelled to play it 4 more times. HOWEVER, from an objective point of view, I think it's on the exact same level as the first (with added ambition and literary techniques like symbolism and motifs). Very minor pacing issues in the middle, but it accomplishes what it aims to do PERFECTLY. And for that, I personally think it is very easily a 10.,,It has low ratings here I think because people didn't like what happened. Plain and simple. Whereas critics are critiquing the game itself, not projecting their own desires, hence the MASSIVE divide on this site. Nothing wrong with that I suppose, just depends on why you, as the consumer, buy games in the first place. It was well worth my money. Though it may very well may be a waste of yours.,,P.S. Was there false advertising? Yes. Does that detract from the artistic work? Of course not. It detracts from reliability of the marketing department.
2238) One of the best games of this generation, along with The Witcher 3 and Red Dead Redemption 2.,Great writing, very emotional story, amazing characters.One of the best visuals in a video game ever. Can't wait for the remastered version on PS5.
2239) Amazing graphics and music, ok gameplay, terrible pacing in the story. An honest score would be like a 7/10 but i'll give it a 10 just to offset the review bombing trolls.
2240) The last of us II is the masterpiece of noughty dog, technically the best ever, the graphics are absolutely a beauty for the eyes, the story is narrated perfectly, and most of the criticisms go only to the death of Joel or  for Abby's involvement, well if you think in this way, sorry but you have not understood anything about the game or what Neill wanted to give us, thanks Neill for giving birth to one of the most beautiful games ever, before criticizing Gioacatelo and give one  sensible criticism at least!
2241) Gameplay is top notch and, while the story is very grim, the performances and characters carry it. If you know anything about this game, you’ll know it’s extremely decisive. The biggest factor on whether you’ll like this game is if you go into it with an open mind and let the game ask you some uncomfortable questions. P.S. I almost took a point off because I **** hate killing the dogs.
2242) This is a masterpiece. What a wonderful and delightful story. Great game mechanics, graphics, cutscenes, incredible details... I absolutely loved the development of characters, I have cried so so many times during my playthrough. Never before a game put me to tears like this. What a powerful message in the end. Great job, Naughty Dog. Thanks so much for this. Only a truly bold story could make such a stir. Really brave, really brilliant.
2243) Ignore the bad reviews from bitter fanboys and/or bigots. TLOU2 is a masterpiece of compelling, shocking, gritty, horrifying, absolutely gripping storytelling. The story is dark, and the characters don’t do what you wish they would do, but it plays out like the best tragedies - feeling inevitable but completely earned. It was so hard to put down, and the characters were so well drawn that by the end it was impossible to decide who to root for. This is art.
2244) It may not be the masterpiece most expected but it certainly took everyone for a ride. This is not one of those feel good games or stories and while it suffers from poor pacing, questionable sex scenes and shallow side characters this game had a good story to tell. Definitely would be one of those games that gets better as time goes on.
2245) That game is amazing ! He moves you with moments of sadness and anger And moments that you feel both this game is really good it has something behind it is not something that gives you everything delivered you have to think to understand
2246) One of the best games I had the pleasure to play. I am amazed at the 5.5 score on this site and I can guarantee most if not all of the low scores are people who haven’t even played the game. Amazing game that had it all from story moments to crisp gameplay. Sneaking around Seattle killing enemies left and right doesn’t get old and with this game engine and physics I can’t get enough of it. This is going to be a game I’ll be replaying almost yearly and I hope Naughty Dog follows up with another amazing experience.
2247) game is great. graphics and animations are amazing. I think the story is fine too. must definitely play,This game is a masterpiece!
2248) amazing follow up to the first masterpiece! don't listen to the reddit trolls downvoting the game to be edgy. if you liked the first one you'll love this one.
2249) This game tells a story in a way that utilises the medium more than any game prior.
2250) Absolutely a masterpiece! This game has brought so many emotions and the flashbacks really add to the story. Yes, I can see why some people are upset but there's no reason to give it a 0/10. SPOILERS BELOW! The game is gorgeous and Joel's death is possibly the only reason why Ellie would go on such a journey once again.,Finally, at first I too didn't like Abby. However, as you get to progress through her story, you see that both Ellie's and Abby's story are a parallel of each other. As for the ending, I liked it. The cycle of violence is broken now, Ellie won't be chased down by Lev now that she didn't kill Abby. I enjoyed the game a lot and there are some absolutely beautiful and wholesome moments.
2251) This is a natural example of making art, a game with characters so well written and a story so immersive .. this game has already made the history of video games
2252) This game is brilliant. Such amazing detail in all artistic aspects, a lot of super fun gameplay, and the story; the story will absolutely break your heart, but is very worthy of your time.
2253) I loved it!!!! I understand why people wasn't fond of it, but I personally thought it was amazing. I hope there will be a part 3
2254) Of course, the game has flaws, but just not justified expectations from the players. If this game was the first in the series, NO ONE would say anything that the game is bad. All these estimates from 0 to 5 are not justified! People worked for many years, worked through each one to surprise the player, how many people lost their jobs, quarreled with family or friends so that, as a result, an idiot who does not understand the whole depth of morality and does not respect the work of developers. Yes, the game is not perfect, but it deserves at least 7-8 points. It’s interesting to re-run the game a second time, it’s very good and I’m sure that if the third part is announced and the Naughty dog ​​takes into account the mistakes of the last game, then it is the best game of the year. Now the game lacks random events that can happen to the hero during the game, it can be cheaters who ask for help (as in 1 game) or the person really needs help and you can take him into the squad, cold, energy from the character and help allies in the city, the choice that does not affect the plot, but only on the perception of the game. Remove trash bins, fill the card since they made it so big and not make story holes, if only the hero survived for further decoupling. In the third part, developers need to touch on how I consider the value of friendship and caring for each other and then the game will come out even better! 10/10
2255) One of the best games of the generation, if not of all time. Graphics, animations, gameplay mechanics, and a enormous dedication to its story telling.,About the story of the game, I think is gorgeous. It's not like your usual story about how you and your friends get to the goal without any consequences or collateral damage. We play the game as Ellie and Abby, two victims of the suffering for the lost of their parents.,After finding out who killed their father, both of them go for revenge, without caring for the other ones who their acts will affect.,In my opinion, the game is one of the best I played because the way it makes you connect with both characters. It tries to make you feel what Ellie and Abby feels so you, as a player, can put in their shoes for a while and know that in the game (and in life) there are no good and bad, it's all grey, middle point, depending wich point of view you want to see.,The last of us part II has lots of messages to give for those who are willing to learn about life a little bit
2256) One of the best games I've ever played, the story is amazing, the game mechanics are wonderful. I also really enjoyed playing with Abby. Honestly I liked it more than the first game, I know that you could dislike what happens during the story, but I think that everything is perfect  especially the final.
2257) Never expected this kind of storytelling from a video game! I have played cinematics game before( Witcher 3, God Of War, Spiderman PS4,RDR2,Death Stranding) but Naughty Dogs here pushed the storytelling in video games to another level! This is art!
2258) An incredible experience. Always been a huge fan of TLOU since it first came out. I loved both the main game and Left Behind and played them both several times to platinum the game. I have always considered TLOU to be my favourite game and scrawled through every nook and cranny to find every detail possible for it. I recently just got a platinum on TLOUII and I loved every minute of it. It was honestly one of the most emotional games I’ve ever played. It made me feel emotions that I have never felt in any other type of game. I’ve barely felt some of the emotions I’ve felt playing this game with some movies. It made me cry, laugh, tense, vindictive and remorseful, one emotion after the other. It was honestly such an emotional rollercoaster. When I finished the game, I couldn’t sleep properly for two nights over the emotions I felt. The music is unbelievable, which was always to be expected. It definitely helped with controlling my emotions. The graphics are out of this world. I have a Basic PS4, and it ran so smoothly with breath taking sceneries. The details are everything. I thought RDR2 took it to the next level but TLOUII ran with their ideas and elevated it even further. The hidden details, nods and metaphors to the first game were incredible. The character development was something else entirely. I really felt like I connected with these characters over time. No character trait or flaw was without reasoning. Even though this game doesn’t spell out every detail to you, it didn’t have to if you paid attention to the game, the background and the characters, the notes, etc. The acting and voice acting was nothing like I’ve ever seen before. Ashley Johnson blew me away with her acting for Ellie and brought it to the next level for me. The story, which is the controversial part here, was exactly the direction I expected them to take since I’ve dreamt of there being a sequel and it didn’t disappoint. It took my expectations and brought it to such an amazing place. The contrast between emotions being felt in the moment and the flashbacks were such a nice contrast, as well as being such heartfelt and deep moments to the story. There’s other things to note where they elevated the game: the combat was a huge improvement, the upgrades (both player and workbenches), stealth was a bigger focus and was more hashed out, the puzzles were improved, the AI was incredible and as a person with a disability, the accessibility was so touching to see. And there is so much,More than could be added to this list. I don’t think I will ever experience a game like this again. But I hope I will.
2259) The best narrative game I have ever had played. Unfortunately, its excellence clearly went over the heads of those with low reviews. Not only are the gameplay, mechanics, and visuals the best of this console generation, but the narrative is structured so that you feel for the characters and are completely drawn into their world. It was the most immersive game I have ever played. The Last of Us Part II is arguably better than its predecessor with far superior mechanics and fun but heart-wrenching gameplay. Ignorance clearly got the best of many reviewers who were unwilling to tolerate the portrayal of lesbian and transgender characters and see the story for its excellence rather than its progressive character choices.
2260) I literally made an account just to review this game. There's a ton of mixed reviews but it's genuinely one of my favorite games now. There's a ton of parallel writing that plays into a genuinely cruel and tragic world. The characters we play as are uniquely foiled and their stories capture you entirely.  Do not play this game if you want  something where you can just run and gun. It's more thought out than that. I thought they handled the LGBTQ+ characters really well too. I will definitely play this game repeatedly I really loved it. If you're into tragic writing that keeps you on edge, this is a great game for you. It's really rare to find a story written like this for video games imo, I'm happy I played it.
2261) One of the best game ever! Just amazing! Playing for the second time. Fresh and interesting concept.
2262) The game is beautiful graphically it is incredible to see how a PS4 can run that game, the city of Seattle despite not being an open world and not giving you the possibility of going back to a previous point it looks very very big almost as if you were in a real city  , the story at the beginning is heartbreaking makes you mourn the death of Joel and makes you want to kill all those responsible, the game talks about revenge and being blinded by it can leave you empty inside and leave you with nothing making you lose what else  you want in the end Ellie loses everything and you will feel that Ellie should have been more grateful to Joel.  in short it is a game that you have to play if or if to decide if you like it or not since the end may leave you waiting for more but if you pay attention to how the characters feel you will understand what they are going through.
2263) It's shameful that this game got review-bombed. Imaging missing out one of the best games in this generation because capital G gamers enjoy being man child. You hate to see it.
2264) Play it. Don't watch it on Youtube. This game is incredible and one you need to experience for yourself.
2265) Great game ☆☆☆☆☆ very realistic. The gameplay is amazing and the story is more than great because it makes you understand that there are other people in the world besides the main characters. I love how they portrayed that everyone has its own tuma to deal with. I can't wait for The Last Of Us part 3.,Also the design wow that was flawless.
2266) This is the best game on PS4. Everyone who hates on it is just a troll. 5 stars
2267) Truly amazing. Great secuel, grear graphics, excelent gameplat. A game full of details. A masterpieces.
2268) I loved the game, it has improved gameplay over the last part,the visuals are the most stunning visuals a PS4 has ever had, but it's biggest trap is its story. You either love it, or hate it.,Many people expected (and wanted) a story concept like the Last of us Part 1 , but Naughty Dog did not think that was a good reason to make a sequel, so they went for something totally different, which is a really bold move. The result is a story you cannot describe as comfort food, but makes you feel a lot of mixed emotions, like it intended to.
2269) An absolute masterpiece.  Congratulations Neil, the ND team, the musicians and actors on an amazing job. The emotions you feel from experiencing this game is immense from joy, sadness, grief, vengeance, empathy, love and forgiveness. Absolutely phenomenal.
2270) I don't agree with the people that say it should've ended on the farm with Dina and Ellie this game is to dark for that I really liked the ending I mean it's sad but could lead into a 3rd game but with all that said it's a must play game.
2271) I Loved the Game, it had Beautiful Graphics and the Story Is just so immersive I rate it 10/10 and recommend that you play it.
2272) Life like, not only the visuals, but the story as well, its a bold move by the writers to present things as grey and not completely black and white. Never thought i would get so emotionally involved in a game. Although I wish things happened differently but thats life, you dont want to accept events of your past.(GAME'S) past
2273) This game… It managed to broke me and at the same time give reasons to live. I literally cried in the end because I really love Ellie and Joel and it hurts to see what happened to them. Their relationship meant so much to me and now they are just gone… I understand why Joel did what he did in part 1. Ellie was all he had, so he couldn't lost her like he lost Sarah. So he saved her. Killed for that. But you know what? I don't care. Because... I would do exactly the same thing. A little girl was alive. Even if it was just for a few years, she was happy. So for me, it was all worth it.,I wanted Abby to be dead. But then Ellie would lost herself and I don’t want that for her. Joel wouldn’t want that for her. He always protected her from this cruel world and wanted her to stay that happy sarcastic kid. She gave him a light that he thought was gone forever. She gave that light to me, I learnt to enjoy small things, just to be happy with what I have. Cause one day it may just not be here anymore.,TLoU showed me how brutal people can be. And how they can change. Once, at the end of the fight, there was one women left unarmed. She begged for mercy. But i killed her. I knew that if I let her live, she would shoot me in the back. Just one death of hundreds, but it really got me. It felt real. Like I really killed someone. At that moment I realised that people in that world don’t always want to be cruel. It’s like “kill or be killed”, you just don’t really have a choice. I will never forgive Abby, but I understand why she did what she did. So as I understand Ellie. She couldn’t let it go. She knew that everything is gone too far, but just couldn’t stop. And I’m happy that, eventually, she could.,This is amazing game. I’ve never experienced anything like that. After part 2 I replayed the first game and all those moments with Joel, every their dialogue, it felt so nice seeing them together again, but also sad, cause I know how it’s gonna end…These games taught me to appreciate life and see the light even if I feel lost and empty in this **** dark around. So thanks, Naughty Dog, for giving me that.
2274) I know people don't like the story because abby and Joel and other things, but no one appreciates how much work it took to make the game and for my opinion I actually like the story and abby and the ending
2275) I just finished this game after about 40hours. What an experience! This is a graphics, technical and narrative masterpiece.,,I thought nothing can beat RDR2's graphics but hooboy TLOU2 just did! The water and reflections and attention to detail in this game is absolutely astounding! I played this game very slowly, soaking in all the environmental details, exploring every nook and cranny, appreciating the amazing artistic talent that went behind crafting such an immersive world.,,Narrative wise, I avoided all spoilers coming in, had an open mind and thoroughly loved the story. Most games have protagonists and antagonists that feel detached, villains that are always in the background who want to take over the world etc. Whose motives don't quite inspire or make me empathize. However, in TLOU2, it's very nuanced, layered and deep. Never have I experienced a story told this way. I felt connected to every character and the story beats hit me hard emotionally.,,If you want a deep narrative experience coupled with powerhouse graphics and intense stealth-action gameplay with survival mehanics, this is it. Please I beg you ignore the hate surrounding this game. I've been reading forums and reviews and videos to understand where the hate is coming from but I, in my honest opinion, feel it is very unwarranted. Play it, it's worth it!
2276) The Game of the year, the game of current gen.,No words to describe this wonderful project
2277) Excellent game, narrative, visual, desing, setting, animation, gameplay, great history and great game congratulation ND
2278) Don't let the leaks or just watching the game fool you. This game is made to be experienced---played first hand. It was such an emotional roller coaster ride. I particularly loved going through the game as Ellie. ND provided a gaming experience that is so immersive I could feel what the characters were feeling. The cutscene to gameplay transition is so good it was hard to tell when a cutscene has ended. I also liked the new characters. It is a sad story, don't get me wrong, but sad stories does not mean they are not good. This is an excellent game and I am on my way to getting my platinum on my second playthrough. It will be hard to top this game.
2279) I didn't love the story of TLOU 2 but damn, did I love the game. I love that the people making the game did whatever they wanted and even knowing what the commutiny response could be they didn't give up their vision and that's beautiful and inspiring. TLOU 2 pushes the perception of what games can be. This game is THE game that will make people who don't consider games as art pieces say... Wow maybe games can be art. And they can be, but only when done with passion and with a clear vision and direction. When those checks are ticked, videogames are the best type of art because they englobe every single other art there exists in a truly immersive experience. TLOU 2 is the perfect example of that, it's the definition of a masterpiece and no matter you're opinion about it, you can't stay indifferent to it. And that's what good art does, it makes you take a stance, have an opinion and most importantly it makes you feel real ****. You can love it or you can hate it, but you can't deny that TLOU 2 is a result of a company that cares, of a company that wants to do different and push the industry forward. It may not be perfect, but to me, TLOU 2 is the peak of creative storytelling in the medium and the best narrative driven game made to date.
2280) A masterpiece, that innovates the medium in the storytelling department using videogame's strength of interactivity to its advantage. It teared me apart emotionally but that's a good thing.,The gameplay was very intense and made very good changes and improvements to the first game. From a technical standpoint, the game is just beautiful - it looks amazing and feels smooth while playing thanks to market leading AA, so the 30 fps are not that big of an issue. They definitely achieved the maximum out of the old PS4 hardware.,Everything else - animations, motion capture, the actor's performance - top notch. For the technical reasons alone it's just laughable to give this game any score lower than a 5 or 6 - the amount of details they've put into the game is just outstanding.,There were little problems with the pacing, especially in the second half - but all the positives outweighs these little problems clearly.,I enjoyed my time with this game and I truly believe it is a piece of art that will be talked about in many years from now.
2281) Great detail, the best graphics and animations on the PS4.  The storyline makes empathy with the characters.
2282) A brilliant masterpiece with selective focus.,The game separates real game lovers from simple Shoot'n'Punch gamers.,,I went through TLOU2 in July 2020. Now I want to give a real review. It will contain no spoilers.,As a player, I've never been so excited to finish a game to see how it ends, but at the same time, as the final approaches, I get more and more sentimental and sad. Emotional chaos is wanted from a plot point of view. Overall, a very good job of Naughty Dog as they manage to convey feelings in this game.,,The plot idea in this game, paired with the breathtaking setting, the ingeniously used zombies, and the perfectly realistic dialogues and facial expressions, really inspired me from the first moment in the game. There is no comparable story I played with similar plot twists so far.,,It begins with a scene with Tommy, the brother of Joel, and Joel himself. The dialog is a minimalist hint where the journey could lead to plot-wise.,,The creators shed light from other perspectives on Joels decision to rescue Ellie from the Firefly researchers. It was already clear in the first TLOU that due to his previous history, Joel might have acted selfishly. All shades of gray will be needed to explore the ​​good and the bad within TLOU2.,,It is developing a masterful drama, which grabbed me immediately. The ultra-realistic dialogues mentioned above are an important point. Every, and I mean every spoken sentence makes sense and is on point. It's bizarre how good the story is advanced by the cutscenes. A grand manifesto is revealed to the player the further he follows this story, which also has the best facial animations in the whole PS4 game history.,In one sentence: The most human game ever for the PS4.,,In a game that is also told by flashbacks, I always had the feeling that I was already or very close to the finale and was still more fascinated that the story continued elegantly. And if you think you are finished, you are not finished. And when you think you're at the end, it goes on;). Loved all the twists.,,The design that is the all-around depressing mood, especially in buildings contaminated with spores, is just top-notch. My request, take your time to explore the area and let the scenery affect you here and there. Worth it. Rarely has a game brought the mood and the environment or landscape so well into harmony.,,Unlike Uncharted, TLOU2 takes itself completely seriously. It's a cinematic drama through and through. So it is actually clear that the characters are not equipped with adventurous moves or weapons. Everything is perfectly reduced, the skills of the characters fit very well into the setting.,,The choice of skills and combat items are well thought out. Sneaking and shooting must be skillfully used to withstand larger waves of opponents. Every now and then you get a mostly nice introduction in a very well built-in tutorial. Over time, the fighting techniques should be mastered so that the more difficult opponents can be stopped at battlefields. To put it simply, there are only three game mechanics: Stealth - Fight - Explore.,,Most sections are perfectly balanced. It always remains breathtakingly exciting. The gameplay is ideal for perfectionists because, with a little practice, the character can be moved damn realistic creeping, crawling, running, throwing, hitting and shooting across the field, so that everything looks like an action-packed stealth film. The movements especially during the fight, the change between weapons and the many possibilities to use hiding places and cover give the combat system a big variation. I really enjoyed facing all kinds of opponents in combat.,,My rating: (category; grade; weighting),Gameplay; 9 out of 10; 2/6,Graphic; 9 out of 10; 1/12,Tension; 10 out of 10; 1/12,Immersion; 10 out of 10; 1/6,Sound/animation; 10 out of 10; 1/6,Story; 10 out of 10; 1/6,,Overall score: 9.6 out of 10
2283) this game is a masterpiece. graphics, gameplay, sounds etc. are awesome. if we look at the story part i know it shouldnt be like that. but this is the best choice i think. i liked it very much and ı hope there will be a part 3 (maybe ellie joins to fireflies to make a cure)
2284) The game is perfect in every sense. If you do not like the ending, then you do not understand the purpose of it.
2285) It is a game that turned me inside out with each twist of the screw. Game of the year!
2286) The best game I have ever played. These people review bombing this game, i don't get it. What? So people are just cool with Joel killling whoever he wants and ripping the cure for humanity away from everyone for his own selfish reasons? That since Joel is such a likable guy, he dosen't deserve, no matter what he does to anybody else, the reckoning that comes his way? Has anyone ever heard the saying, "what go around, comes back around?"  The whole point of the story is to take a character who you hate and don't understand in the beginning (Abby), and have the ability as a sensible human being to understand, empathize, and sympathize with that character by the end. To understand why she did what she did. What? Nobody felt bad that Abby's entire life was destroyed when Joel murdered her dad? To the point that she couldn't even be intimate with her love interest, knowing the man that did that is still breathing the same air she is.  What makes Joel and Ellie so much better that Abby? Other than the fact that you learn Abby's story last? The whole point of what made Joel such a fascinating character was that he was simultaneously a hero AND a villain. Saving Ellie was hardly a heroic thing to do, even Ellie would have disagreed with it. People need to understand that a major theme of the game was seeing and perceiving events and the world from certain character's point of view. To understand why each character does what they do and makes the decision's that they do. That's called great storythelling. To be able to understand why character's do what they do. Not just forever staying faithful to a villain just because he's a fan favorite. I applaud Naughty Dog for doing this. Bottomline is this, depending on your point of view, Joel Miller was a villain, and he got what was coming to him.
2287) Amazing experience. I loved the first game and the story of the second was even more powerful and engaging. The gameplay has just the right mix of problem solving, discovery and action. Graphically it is stunning and feels like it's already on the next-gen. The only minor gripe is the lack of multiplayer as Factions is one of the best multiplayers I've played. Even so, this game is the closest game to perfection that I have experienced  in my long tenure as a gamer. Thank you to Neil, Naughty Dog et al for the experience and thank you for not being swayed by the irrational hate. A masterpiece.
2288) one of the best done scripts I had the opportunity to see and play, just perfect !!!
2289) The song Hurt by Johnny Cash has been proclaimed by many fans as an unofficial soundtrack to the The Last of Us of 2013. However, it becomes a true hymn only for the second part, a match that gives you goosebumps. The new game “hurts us”, it “lets us down”, and even makes some of us “go away in the end”. And even if we could give it a chance to “start again”, the story “would keep itself” in spite of everything. The latter, I believe, is what makes The Last of Us Part II iconic.,,Playing this game is a challenge, a fight we are destined to lose. As if standing on a ring with Naughty Dog, we are knocked down by the very first blow. Those of us, who strive to continue, will get hurt again and not once. Of course, this isn’t something we are used to as players. After all, what we love most about video games is the feeling of pleasure they give us. In response, the gaming industry has always focused on players and their needs, by producing games of different genres and styles, in order to bestow us this feeling. The Last of Us Part II is the first game, in my experience, which is not created for the player. It is created for the characters.,,Seven years have passed, since we learnt the story of Joel and Ellie. And as in any great story, once it ends, the characters have it all to move on without their writers’ intervention. The idea of Neil Druckmann and the Co. was to give them an opportunity to live their lives by themselves. A respectful decision, yet a cruel one – not for the characters, but the players. The new game destroys all our expectations with respect to the story right in the beginning, and it does so ruthlessly. Moreover, it makes us do things we find brute, pointless and even mocking. It is tempting, in a fit of rage and despair, to blame the developers’ team in making a failure of a story, but… is it really their story?,,No matter how terrifying it may sound, I truly believe that the narrative of The Last of Us Part II is the only possible continuation of a story that took off in the first part. Despite all the love we have for Joel and Ellie, they are still ordinary humans, whose decisions must have consequences. We can criticise Neil Druckmann for the chosen order of events, but, sooner or later, they would have happened anyway. It is much more important that he doesn’t make up a story, but puts the characters in a genuine environment crafted by their deeds, which allows them to be authentic. The question then is why do we need to have a game, which is created for the characters rather than us? Well, whatever we think of it, the new story is a brilliantly presented work of art, which can teach us many things.,,It is not merely a revenge recital, as some of us complain – it is also a story of how important it is to stop at the right time. It is a story of forgiveness and being unable to forgive; a story of how frightening the PTSD effects are, especially in a world where love and peace are so precious and rare; a story of growing up being already an adult… Such attention to the narrative is not caused by the lack of technical virtues, but their utmost excellence. It wouldn’t be a Naughty Dog game, if the directing, music and acting weren’t so magnificent, while the gameplay really amazes with its meticulous attention to details, and live action fights.,,In the end, the new game allows to dive into unimaginable depths of The Last of Us world as it is: dark, scary, and immensely sad. The only way to accept this story is, perhaps, to let the pain in. If in the first part we are united with Joel and Ellie by hope, in the second part we share a common trauma – a bond of far greater power.
2290) It's an incredible piece of art and in my opinion the standard which story based games should aspire to. People really need to tap into their empathy and reflect on the game before trashing it.,It's not a perfect game, but it's as close to a perfect game as I've seen in years.
2291) Gameplay, graphics, sounds, story is great! Don't let the negative troll reviews influence you into thinking it's a bad game. Play it yourself to find out first
2292) Beautiful game that keeps you on the edge of your seat all the way through. The story perspective allows you to feel the true nature of the characters and the world they live in.
2293) I love the game how it is. I dont know why people behave like it is their own game. Naughty Dog made their version based on the world and environment. Of course I maybe would like another path of the story, but people have to accept what Naughty Dog did.,For me the game is still a masterpiece even tough I disagree with some story decisions. The scenery, animations, graphics, writing etc is perfect and top notch in my opinion. The only disadvantage is the story but the game didnt deserve all that review bombing just because fans disagree with it.,Ah and by the way, why did the game already get so many negative reviews on the first day. Its pretty hard to complete the game in one day. I think many of them just played the first 20 minutes and then put a negative review. This game didnt deserve that.
2294) After completing game at highest difficulty and putting around 60h into it. I'm baffled by low user score. Not sure what's wrong with people for giving this game low ratings. It's full of gaming goodness: great story, fatntsic graphic, immersove game play. The only complain I have is why we had to wait 7 years for this masterpiece. Imagine if we would get this stunning game at the beginning of this generation! We would still look for our jaws! Would gladly ran away from.horde again!
2295) It's funny how a majority of the negative user reviews was written at the first two days, like if almost everyone who didn't like the game played 24h straight. Thats kinda ridiculous to me.,,But however i loved the game even though its probably not really the best game ever made but i reviewed it 10/10 to even out the score. I loved the story even though Joel died, and the ending to me was not really disappointing. I felt like it was better that Ellie finely after all these hours understood.,,The gameplay to me was like the first game but that really didn't mattered to me because i bought the game for the story. So to me this was a really good game and I will probably play it over again to aim for the platinum trophy.
2296) The game challenges us as players to cope with the death of a beloved character, it knows you hate Abby, killing Joel is not a slap in the face of the player, but it's there to put you in the shoes of Ellie, we want Abby dead even if we know that she did exactly what we wanted to do to her, the game shows to us that we are no better than the person we most hate, the protagonist is the antagonist and vise versa. Abby has the moral high ground but we care more about Joel . This game is the train moral test and we all lost.
2297) The amount of emotions that this game makes you feel is unbeliavable, first game that i see that requires you to be mature, no other way you will understand the games message, that is so good btw, gameplay insane, you can play on multiple ways, for sure you will find a playstyle for you, and about the grapichs, cant believe that a ps4 provide that experience, insane game.
2298) The game is a masterpiece of what video games can be. The gameplay is addictive and intuitive that immerses you throughout the entire game. The quality is by far the highest I have ever experienced in a game. Now the big one — story. I have never thought of Naughty Dogs games as an achievement in writing. The Uncharted games and even the first Last of Us has never done anything ground breaking in telling a story. The love the first game gets confused me because it was a solid story but it didn’t do anything exceptional. TLOU2 is by far the boldest take in story telling and that reflects by the hate it has received. Again I don’t think ND are geniuses in their writing ability but I do appreciate this take in this case. The duality of holding two opposing forces as a single truth is exceptionally difficult to convey and the fact that only 5% of the population can even do this shows why people have review bombed this game. The game requires you to have an open mind which was a risk they took because most people simply do not have this ability. And for that I applaud ND in doing this because it truly subverted expectations in a clever way unlike some other properties (The Last Jedi). The game is a must play despite some writing missteps in areas of the story — the story itself is excellent in how they wanted to tell it.
2299) The game is perfect. The story is very good, but only those who have maturity see this
2300) This game is amazing. Anyone giving is a 0 is a troll from a corner of gaming that is toxic and needs to go away forever.
2301) It's strong, mature and well-developed game on this generation of consoles. A game that makes you think even a couple of days after passing. The game you want to play, not to watch on stream.
2302) Simply one of the best linear story based games every made. It doesn't just surpass the its predecessor in every department, but soars above the lofty standards we've come to expect from Naughty Dog. An emotional tour-de-force that asks it's audience to keep an open mind, and pays off handsomely. Simply one of the best linear story based games every made. Simply one of the best games of the generation.
2303) No spoilers here but anyway most of you already know the storyline, which is pretty much intensive for a lot of people, okay my first gameplay was by around 31 hours which feels like a lot , really a lot, maybe they shopuld compressed the second half a bit but none of a less i loved it ;) i played the first part twice right before i got to the second part and the story really showed how this cruel world is so apart and devided because mankind is most dangerous animal on this planet...periode...i enjoyed every sec of it and from the graphics point of view , i would love to see a 60fps version on PS5 soon so i can play it again ..over and out....
2304) The best game ever. the story was too good that I didn't want it to end.,Intense,Thrilling,Action-packed,Emotional,All in one. Enjoy!
2305) This has been one of the best if not simply the best game i have ever played. I am not going to go into specifics and i hope that anyone who plays it can enjoy it without knowing any story details. All i am going to say is that it is a roller coaster of excitment, horror, shock, awe and emotions. Never have i felt like that for video games characters, never have i shared their pain, their sorrow, their regrets like i have in this game.,This is the evolution of story telling, a pure work of art and i am affraid that it will be a long time before i experience another game like it.,Lastly i need to mention the amazing motion capture that takes place. It's so easy to forget that you are watching animation and instead believe that these are real breathing people in front of your eyes. It will be hard to go back to the generic facial animation of almost every other game out there.,For me, The Last of us, part 2, is the next generation of gaming
2306) As good as the first one, dont understand the hate people has against this game. They are telling a storie if you dont like the story dont give the game a bad review just dont play it.
2307) ”The war never changes.”,The one sentence from Fallout that comes to mind after the credits roll for Last of us 2. It is a marvelous story with great gameplay. It tells the story in many viewpoints and you can accept it and enjoy the game(or not and give awful reviews in metacritic). In this post-apocalyptic world nothing is in black and white. All are bad based on the viewpoint. Everyone you kill is a person, and you might find them in both stories.,One of the best stories in ages. Deal with it.
2308) One of the beautiful things i ever saw and feel in my life !! A cinematographic masterpiece !
2309) A beautifully crafted game that holds a torch for all other sequels to look upon. I have cried, been shocked, stared in awe and have loved every minute of this game. For those that hate the game, I am positive it is because of the LGBTQ+ elements that angers them. This game is a masterpiece. A true work of art.
2310) This game reset what games were capable of for me. Incredible storytelling. Graphics and set pieces are incredible. Combat is improved. An emotionally powerful journey you shouldn’t miss. Highly recommended!
2311) A masterpiece never has a game filled me with so much emotion. The gameplay is really good and fun but the story filled me with confusion and so much emotion that I haven't felt in a long time a game you must play.
2312) Naughty Dog successfully pushes the envelope on games as a narrative medium further than anyone has done before. While perspective shifts are a common trick in movies and games, rarely has it been done so effectively and impactfully as in this game. Hands down the story is the best part of this game. Everything just makes complete sense in the context of the game's universe and how events unfold.,,Arguably it is actually on the gameplay mechanics front that I am a bit disappointed -- it is still functionally identical to TLoU1, whereas the trailers and previews suggested there was a lot more tension and smart enemy AI. In reality I am still able to very slowly and deliberately stealth my way through some levels, picking enemies off one-by-one. This suits my play style, but I was hoping for more changes on this front. I will be trying it on Survivor+ to see if that changes things.
2313) Dont listen to all the hate, the gameplay and graphics are some of the best on this generation, the story is not as easy to digest as the first game but because it explores more complex themes like great. Try to play it without spoilers, i think it can make all the difference.
2314) An amazing tale of what it is like to live with grief. Great gameplay and amazingly beautiful vistas.,,The more I play I, and think about it, the more the character of Ellie grows. They tell her story in a heartbreaking and oftentimes hard to swallow way.,,This isn't a game where you're supposed to have a "fun" time, but rather come away from it having lived through a massive experience.,,I believe this game, and how it handles its narrative, will be talked about for decades to come.
2315) I really liked playing as a woman honestly, 10/10 would definitely recommend, i hate joel, and all in all, i hate men too
2316) I have only one word for this masterpiece: chills.,Apart of some parts of gameplay the rest is very strong and emotional
2317) Really enjoyed this game, it came with a big shock very early on but as the game wears on and characters develop it all starts to make sense. I feel that the villains are still slow and easy to kill, using the same basic moves every time to kill them or the clickers does get a bit boring but the story line is still great and there is enough to keep things flowing nicely. I find it refreshing to have two female lead characters and although I didn't like playing as Abby initially due to what she did, I have become fond of her and understand why she did it. If it were you wouldn't you do the same?
2318) The Last of Us Part 2 is an amazing game. Haters will always hate and sometimes opinions can be subjective. The story was well written and the graphics, gameplay, and environments are all superb. Just because it doesn't follow the usual story telling that most people expect doesn't mean it's trash. People need to be more open minded and stop complaining about the things that didn't go the way they wanted it. Appreciate the game and appreciate all the efforts that the developers have put into it.
2319) This game was amazingly crafted.,,Everything, from the technical side to the story, deserves a solid 10.,,Some people might find it hard to swallow as the story happens as it would in real life, but what can I say, real life hurts :),,100% recommended, I'm glad I bought it and would do so again.
2320) This game is the masterpiece! Technicaly it is not reovolution, but it can be presentated as the game of the generation. The last of us part 2 doesn`t promise the great plot but during the game I started understanding that this sight of revenge is special. All the details, all the violence, all the realationships between the heroes show us the real revenge and all the consequences. I haven`t seen anything like that before! This game makes me feel different. Using soundtracks, using the space around the game makes me feel like the heroes feel. And there are not many such games today. This game is ALIVE! I feel pity for those who didn`t understand all of that and felt disappointed like it was with rdr2. I hope that in the future everyone wil see the potential of The last of us part 2.
2321) To be very honest i liked the game very much  The new AI, gameplay  and stealth all is really good. And for the haters you don't deserve any appreciation if you can't appreciate that developers actually took the risk by making the TLOU 2.,,MASTERPIECE
2322) The best game i have ever played. The game gives you sincere and strong emotions, empathy for the characters. The plot is brilliant
2323) This game do not deserve a 10/10 rating, it's a great game, the plot can or cannot be appreciated depending on your personal taste, gameplay and graphics are similar to the previous one, but improved A LOT since then. I am giving a 10 instead of a 8 or a 9 cause I've seen to much 0/10, votes that this game doesn't deserve at all, I'm trying to balace the thing
2324) Loved every bit of this game, was concerned that Naughty Dog was doing a sequel but after playing it for myself I cannot express how good it really was, honestly do not understand all the hate it is getting.
2325) To much hate and betrayal that they cannot see the bigger picture. It’s an amazing game and engaging experience with interesting but rough story. Gameplay is better and more intense than ever. But for me is perfect because of the little details in and out of the cutscenes. Play the game with open mind and don’t let people confuse you. Because at the end of the day is easier to hate than like something.
2326) An ambiguous, but still incredible work. The technical and gameplay components are amazing, but the plot ... is very ambiguous. You seem to understand that everything that happens is spelled out and set at an incredibly high level, but do you want it to happen? After a long discussion of the whole plot, I think that I would like it to be different. Let more mundane and much less dramatic, but different.
2327) This game does exactly what any great story should do, make you think and question. A great game and you must not judge it based on what people say unless you actually play it and feel it.
2328) Stunning game. Completed it weeks ago, and I still can't stop thinking about it. 10/10
2329) The combat and gameplay were excellent. Story was a tiny bit long but nothing to warrant this nerd / fanboy / fan girl rage is amusing... Loved it... keep crying nerds
2330) Although certain points in the game feel overly drawn out, the rest of it feel like a true masterpiece worthy of being the last major PS4 title. I cannot wait to see what Naughtydog does next because the perfect story and visuals can only be expanded upon in the coming generation of console.
2331) a unique game that touched themes sensitive to society!  undoubtedly the best game of the seventh generation of video games
2332) i'm surprised that the game is receiving so many bad reviews. i believe it's due to snowflakes disliking that their forced to reevaluate what's wrong and right and can't handle playing a game where no one is 100% good and 100% bad.
2333) This isn’t just a game (which is arguably THE BEST looking game on console) this is AN EMOTIONAL EXPERIENCE. The attention to detail in the world is mind blowing. This has been a rollercoaster ride and I can’t wait to dive in again with the Game+ mode. And hopefully a remaster down the line for the PS5. Don’t let the bigotry of the down voting fool you, this IS a MASTERPIECE. Thank you Naughty Dog for the inclusion and representation and the minorities. Culture is shifting and so should gaming.
2334) I get some people didnt like the story decisions but giving it a 0/10 and the review bombing are just childish. Yeah im sure tens of thousands of people finished a 25 hour game in 3 hours and decided it was a 0/10. I mean come on the amazing graphics, sound design, animations, graphics are worth 0 points? I didn't read any spoilers/leaks and I loved the game. Yeah it's not perfect but compared to the average game it's in a totally different league. It brought out a lot of emotions (good and bad) and made me think a lot, and am still thinking about it 2 weeks after finishing it. A lot of people saw spoilers, decided they hated it and didn't give it a legit chance (or didn't even play it at all), blew the negatives out of proportion and minimized the good parts of the game. People look at the original through rose-colored glasses, yeah it was a great game but it wasn't perfect either. Bottom line people are sad/mad because a character they like died, but Ned Stark died suddenly and brutally and everyone praised GoT for being so ballsy to kill off a main character. At the end of the day it's a game and the amount of hatred this game has brought into the world is sad and ridiculous. Not liking something is one thing, but sending death threats to the creators/actors that played a character you dont like is absurd.
2335) This game was amazing. The story was very mature and requires empathy to view the story from the perspective of everyone involved. The Gameplay is great but the controls will take a while to adjust too but once a few encounters are completed then you will be right at home.,,The only downside to the game is that some levels and chapters are very drawn out and I feel some of the second half could have been a bit shorter. I tend to feel this way with most when I find myself ready for the ending.,,I can not stress enough this game is amazing and should be enjoyed from end to end and it requires empathy and reflection.. the final scenes will be with me forever and the ultimate message... this will be a hallmark of what we have to look forward to in future of gaming.
2336) The only reason that I can imagine why people are still review bombing this piece is cause they refuse to undestand the conception and just want that this game be like some other apocalipse shooter. Refuse to create empathy and see that we are all wrong for hating someone or something. Of course everyone can dislike this, cause still a game. But I still can't understand the arguments.,This is a masterpiece about what really worth in life, a masterpiece about different kind of people. I waited 6 long years just to play this game, and when I read the firsts reviews, I get really upset thinking that I wasted time waiting. When I played for the first time, I felt a roller coaster of good to totally devastating feelings. This was the game that I was waiting for in a long time. Congrats, Naughty Dog, and a special congrats to all of the english and portuguese voice actors. One of the best games that I ever played in my life.
2337) One of the best games ever made. From the visuals to the sound effects and music, there is so much quality you get that's not seen often in games.,,Do not listen to the emotionally immature kids on this site who in the emo state give it a 0 score,,they are blinded by rage (ironically don't get the moral of the game: revenge destroys your own life) because of their bias for Joel who gets murdered in a way they do not like. Like many in that world whose lives were ended by Joel, he gets the same treatment. Instead of appreciating and understanding the development the characters went through which was shown in during the game, they only focus on 1 moment in the game.,,The long playthrough was very enjoyable. You get to witness both sides of the story. Abby was a likeable character. I enjoyed her part more. The ending is just perfect, I came to like both characters and didn't want any to die. The gameplay is never dull because there are so many ways you can complete the encounters. Stealth, kill, sneak by or a combination of these. The animation work is best I've ever seen in a game. The amount of options you can change is unreal.,,I can confidently say this is the best game on the PS4. Best played on PS4 Pro.,Stunning visuals with HDR on my LG OLED and the sound effect, especially the gunshots were amazing. Therefore recommended to play with a good headset or a home theater system like I did.,A must buy for a mature person. Kids (
2338) Great game! Amazing gameplay, it really scared me sometimes, others it got me on the edge of my seat. The story, unlike many have said, is fenomenal and nothing like I’ve ever seen before. I cried at the end. Just amazing all the way through.
2339) Good game. Much better than first game. Looking better, more fun, better story
2340) This game is beautiful in many ways. The graphics are insane, the game play is fun and immersive, the attention to detail is extraordinary. Story-wise it's a depressing emotional roller coaster that shows you how brutal this world can be. The moral of the story is very deep, and that's maybe why a lot of people didn't  seem to understand it. The story does have it's flaws but it's far from something that isn't worth playing. One thing is for sure, and that is that this game does not deserve all the hate that it gets after all the years of waiting.
2341) At the beginning I wasn't sure if I would have liked the game as much as I did with the part 1, but at the ending, the final was really unexpected and I think it's best final there could be. I really hope for a part 3!
2342) The most polarizing game I’ve ever seen. People who don’t like the game have good points, but I respectfully disagree. I think it’s as good if not better than the 1st game. I know that’s a controversial opinion but that’s fine.
2343) If you have a big mind, this game will drive you crazy this is very god game
2344) this game is so good and have amazing story mode but i hope is coming on pc version and play on 4k 60fps !!
2345) You dont have to like this game, but I think everyone needs to play it. If you enjoy art, you will enjoy this game regardless.,Quality is superb technically from animations, to playability and probably best graphics I've seen in any game so far.
2346) Greatest game of all time gets an even better sequel with progressive story, immersive action and intuitive controls. Together with memorable characters, a brooding score and cinematic aesthetic it all adds up to being a gaming masterpiece. Ignore the haters who have misguided views based on their own prejudices and lack of open mindedness restricting their perspective of the game and it's messages.  The Last of Us II examines the consequences of violence. It's about finding redemption through love, forgiveness and letting go of your blinding hate.
2347) Possibly the best game I have ever played. Totally recommend it! It is more like playing a movie rather than a video game. Some of the decisions taken by the characters will be undesired or uncomfortable, but, in my opinion, video games must not be something always funny to play. Contrary to others, I loved the ending and seriously expect (not in a year, or three - that would be excessive) a part 3.
2348) Just finished the game and loved every moment, to be really honest i don't see why all the critic. A must play.
2349) finished the about 10 days ago and been processing it. it's hard to say yet, but it is probably the best game i've ever played. one thing is for certain: it is the most deep and profound gaming experiencing i've ever had. emotionally, it stands side by side with the RDR franchise.,the way that naughty dog introduced new characters and the way they've made you deal with them... it's just brilliant.,took me by surprise at every corner, not even the spoiles could have messed that up. that sh/t you saw on the internet? that was just the beginning of the story.,the gameplaying, the level design, the main characters, the NPCs, the storytelling, the plots... all just perfect! the game ended the way it had to. i would change absolutely nothing.,still processing it....
2350) The game is fine I have not played it because I have no console, I have only seen it for gameplays, the gameplay looks great and the story because most people dislike but ami teaches me that revenge is never good and that it will make your life a **** so the game for me is a 10/10
2351) Best game that I ever played in my 20 year gaming experience. The imersion on the game is so unique and again it leaves a mark on the games history.
2352) The experience of this game is one of  the most intense that i have in 34 years s playing video games. Congratulations Naughty dog
2353) Again, Naughty Dog did it. I have high expectation with this game and yet, the game blew it out of the water. The graphics, the gameplay, the voice acting, the twists and turns are immaculate. Before I played the game, I’ve heard about the rumors and leaks but that didn’t stop me in getting to know what Naughty Dog wants us to know about the story. I came in with an open mind and boy was I flabbergasted. It was those types of games where each moment with the characters are heartfelt and authentic, and that their thirsts for answers and vengeance fueled this gut-wrenching, anxiety-inducing storyline. It was one of the best video games I played in a long while and the one that will stick to me for the longest time. Thanks, Naughty Dog for this masterpiece of a game. This is how a single narrative should be.
2354) I loved the first and now I loved this game just as much, if not more. It does something truly unique plot and story wise. Even if it's not what everyone wanted, it's at least something way more interesting than what I suspect people wanted plot and story wise.
2355) You dont like the game just because abby??come on grown up..not every game must have happy ending
2356) It is a very difficult game in his emotional part. Graphics , gameplay and music are also beautiful. This game is a rare event.
2357) The best I've ever played.  The project is comparable to large series.  even at the end of the game after 30 hours of gameplay it’s not annoying.  Break through to tears in the finals.  Great game.  THANKS TO THE DEVELOPERS.
2358) Good game its the most perfect game in this generation! Not for everyone but its a masterpiece.
2359) A masterpiece in story-telling, wish more writers would be brave and take that approach and not let the dim-witted general populace ground their vision of what they want to tell.,10/10 easily the best game of this generation,
2360) Its my personal game of the year, it has amazing details and a dense and deep story that made me feel for them,Its AMAZING
2361) Great game, great story and well worth the wait. A true testament to the hard work of the team at naughty dog.
2362) Fantastic game that is up there with the first game, awesome graphics and great story.
2363) One of the most moving and enthralling games I have ever played. Just as good as the first one. I'm not sure why people are saying it's a bad game, it's incredible!
2364) I love the original and the second one does not disappoint. Amazing story telling and gameplay bring on part 3!
2365) This game is incredible. It is so impactful and moving with it’s story. The characters feel real and their motivations are well explained. The gameplay is amazing and has a great variety in the different ways you can play. There was never a moment of this game where I felt uninterested or bored. I genuinely don’t know when I’ll experience a game on this level again.
2366) Best Visuals in gaming ever,Most realistic gameplay ever created in gaming,Most dramatic storyline in gaming
2367) This is a game that will stick with you. No matter how hard you try to avoid it, dismiss it or praise it, the great thing about it is that you can't escape from the emotions it provokes.,,A phenomenal achievement, a true masterpiece.
2368) Probably the most immersive and intense game I’ve played, combined with a gut wrenching, thought provoking narrative that can’t really be replicated in any other medium.
2369) People should grow up and learn about story structure before criticising that thing exactly. When talking about story "manipulating emotions" is not a thing, and if it is it's what every story or piece of art does because it's what it's meant to do. I think this game is nearly perfect, I liked the first more, but that doesn't take anything away from this one.
2370) This is an amazing game, it's really pulls you in. Yes I was upset by something that happened in the game and I wish they didn't. But that doesn't stop it from me an amazing game.
2371) Not the story that I wanted, but it's so well written that it destroyed me. Amazing work from Naughty Dog as everything
2372) Beautiful, moving work of art. A must play! I have issues with the story but overall the experience is mind-blowing and the combat is even more fun than the first game.
2373) Never before a game or movie made me feel the tragedy and pain of the main character like that.  Graphic and gameplay also 10/10.
2374) This game is a masterpiece. From environment design and combat style to story and characters development. I can't count how many emotions I felt playing this game. Creators of this game really know how to play with your feelings and make you divide yourself in two parts and make them fight each other. Giving you a really hard time and forcing you do stuff you don't want to. I rated this game 10/10 because it deserves it. No matter how much grief, anxiety and anger it also made us feel. I can't deny the beginning of the game was sort of weird and part of the ending was kind of unnecessary but everything was how it should be. I think that the main message creators wanted to give us is forgiveness. Anyway, perfect game. 10/10. Totally recommended.
2375) This is one in a generation Game. From the story to graphics, the world. the sound design. ND really outdid themselves here. Brilliant heartbroken story. Thank you, ND for this, I hope you can keep pushing the level and more games like this are made.
2376) It's better than the first part, the people thinks that the history is bad but I disagree
2377) Best game this year so far. Absolutelly loved it. Great visual and gameplay, found no bugs during two playthrough (first was 30 hours), which is rare now. About story.. It was different from first one, darker, sad, but still good and interesting. One thing can be seen different from other perspective. Great job Naughty Dog.
2378) With such a divisive love it or hate it story, there is no doubt Naughty Dog has once again set the bar in technical aspects of video game making. The amount of work and dedication put in with each frame and each individual pixel is astounding (albeit amidst reports of developer crunch) and continues to solidify Naughty Dog as one of the industry's best.
2379) Incredible, beautiful, emotionally exhausting, epic game. Do not play it if you have not played the first, and if it's been more than a year since you played the first, I suggest playing it again prior to this one.,When I say 'epic', I'm talking Godfather 1 and 2, The Lord of the Rings Trilogy and more.,I want to play it again but my heart is wrung out.,Absolutely loved it
2380) A split narrative game that is very polarizing, hence the positive and negative responses without much middle-ground. It forces you to play and experience two sides of a conflict. Empathy is the name of the game. People will complain about having to play half the game as Abby or that Joel was murdered too soon. But the story plays out quite masterfully. It's a story about survival and forgiveness that masquerades as a revenge story, but if you look deeper, isn't. Every single character is flawed in some ways, some more deeply than others. The writers want you to think about what it means to be a hero or villain because it's all just perspective in TLOU. That said, all of the characters are memorable. I haven't come out of a game being able to list all the major or even semi-important characters by name since the Witcher 3. The actual gameplay is about what you would expect from a sequel to the first game. Decent gunplay, melee combat, lots of QTEs, no player driven choices other than when/how to explore some of the map. It's not a game for everyone, I can understand some of the criticism. Not the homophobic comments, or "Abby is a muscular woman and I can't get over it" comments, or that Joel is actually some noble hero that didn't in any way deserve to die comments. I see a lot of those. But I encourage those that gave up on it early, or only heard bad things about it second-hand, to give it another chance because the build-up is great and the most intense sequences in the later part of the game are going to stick with me for quite some time.
2381) some may say that the story is poor but i see those people as being close minded, it was advised by Troy Baker himself to play the game with an open mind which i did, and i loved the story, the Graphics were absolutely Beautiful, The Game play added a few new things like Dodging and Proning allowing for more stealth options, and the Story actually made me Regret some of the choices i didn't have any control over, and honestly as much as the ending annoyed me, i get what Naughty dog was trying to achieve with this game, Revenge isn't worth what you might lose, i was in tears at multiple points in the game, and i'm actually happy that Naughty Dog did this, yes i have my personal Gripes with this game, however i still loved it all the same, if anyone sees this, i would say play with game with an open mind, and dont be so harsh on the Developers for taking a chance on a Beloved Franchise, yes there are a lot of things i would have pushed to do differently if i worked on the game but i didn't work on the game, however i can still appreciate what i would call a masterpiece of a game, this game has more than earned being the first game i've actually put a review on
2382) best game I've played in my life. incredible, surprising, exciting.
2383) The Last of Us II is not gonna give you what you want. This is the entire point of the game. It is supposed to make you suffer and feel uncomfortable unlike anything else can.,,Everyone wanted Joel and Ellie adventures continuing their beautifully established father-daughter-esque relationship in part I. Well no, you´re not gonna get what you want. Endure it and survive!,,Instead the games takes a very bold approach, one that I personally approve of. And there it is - personal preference. Everybody is gonna have their own opinions and thoughts about this game. So please get the full experience, play it for yourself and then decide how much you like it. For me it´s a 10. I am amazed by TLOU II and what impact it has on me long after I finished my first playthrough. I had a remarkable *unique* 30 hour experience with many mixed states of emotions. You might disagree with that, you might have hated the way the story continued and overall see it only as a 4. And that is totally fine! But don´t let anybody (including me) or any leaked scenes or reviews influence you how to feel about a game (and basically anything in life). And please don´t hate on or even personally attack people who completely stan or bash the hell out of a game, that´s disgusting and there´s just no room for that. Respect other peoples honest opinion.,,The Last Of Us II is able to portray such diverse emotions and aspects. Fear, sadness, fun, tragedy, violence, anger, redemption, forgiveness, panic (increases with difficulty level), love, friendship, nature and beautiful scenery, I could go on... The visuals and character performances are absolutely stunning and create a real life atmosphere feeling. The soundtrack is very well used in the right spots to strengthen these effects.,,I´m not gonna dive very deep into the story itself, I just wanna mention a few things about Abby. I hated having to play with her in the beginning. After everything I´ve been through with Ellie, it was just a smack in the face with a brick. TLOU II is very good with these kind of moments. I let Abby die intentionally a couple times. The game makes you suffer again and does exactly what you don´t want: trying very hard to make you like Abby. As the story continued, I started to get a new perspective on her. When it came down to the dramatic fight backstage in the theatre I didn´t root for her as my emotional connection with Ellie is much stronger. But I gotta admit, Abby has been through some rough stuff. Up high in the skyscrapers and down low in ground zero on day 2 captures this best. Some people might´ve wanted to free Abby from her sins at the pillars in Seraphite fashion. But in the end I was okay with letting her go. Maybe breaking that cycle of revenge is exactly what Ellie needed to do to get her redemption and get the chance at a "normal" life.,,No other video game or movie for that matter left me more emotionally drained when the credits rolled. I stared at the screen in disbelief of what had just happened until a beautiful version of wayfaring stranger started playing making me tear up. After my first playthrough I felt empty, sad and confused. Ellie seemed to have lost everything. I hated it. Seeing her end up with her biggest fear: ending up alone with everyone she cares about either gone or dead. That´s just tragic and hurts my soul. This was just another huge bottle shattered in my face bringing me down.,,It took me a while to process everything and it still does. I was so shocked I didn´t notice small details like: Ellie wearing Dina´s bracelet after not having it on her when leaving the farmhouse. Ellie carrying no weapons and acting unsurprised and unbothered by the empty house. This hints at the possibility of her and Dina settling down in Jackson which I´d be happy to see.,,I believe she went back for the only object you can interact with in the last scene: the guitar. I´m not sure if she planned to take it with her. But after attempting to play with her missing fingers and then putting to rest what was her only connection left to Joel, for me it symbolized that she has finally come to peace with Joel and she can fully forgive him moving forward.,,I don´t know if there´s gonna be another emotional roller coaster part III but I´d be happy to get any new TLOU content, next time hopefully without leaks.
2384) This is without a doubt a game that will be talked about for a long time. Truly groundbreaking in terms of storytelling. Big applause to Naughty Dog for having the courage to tell such a risky story like this, having the artistic integrity to see it through to the end, and for being superstars at their jobs to pull it off so beautifully. If you can handle the subject matter it's definitely a 10/10 must play.
2385) Although Joel does and you don’t get to kill Abby, overall, the game was a blast to play and left me satisfied and ready for Part III. Very great game!
2386) No, this is not the best shooting game. No, is not the best fight game. Is not open world, not the best action, not bla,  bla,  bla,  bla.,,The strongest point of this game is the history, and to get inside the game and understand the history and feel it, you need to understand and love the characters first.,,I will say this game is much more enjoyable if you play the first one before. To feel what the creators of the game want you to feel.  and trust me, you will have your feelings tested here like no other game i played before.,,Is a very long game (take me 40 hrs to finish it the first time), lot of different scenarios, sickness passion for the details, the sound effects .  . . please play it with headphones: AMAZING. the sound track is precise and smooth, you almost didn't feel the changes.,,This game is DEFINITELY not for everyone, but is also definitely a MASTER PIECE.,,My humble point of view . . . .
2387) **** Joel he killed Abbies father and friends, **** Ellie she killed Alice the dog, and **** anyone that thinks this game isn’t a masterpiece
2388) I really liked the game, a very deep and interesting plot, graphics, animation, mechanics, everything is at the highest level.,,Thank you, Naughty Dog
2389) I understand why people are angry with the story of 'The Last Of Us Part II'.  The first game left us with a very open ending and I remember people kept talking about what's next for these characters. I always expected a dark turn since there needed to be bigger consequences for Joel's actions in part one.,,i loved this game from start to finish. First of all, the game-play is extraordinary. The stealth mechanics blew my mind. I am glad they fixed the bow aiming system. The visuals are breathtaking and I couldn't stop using the photo mode to capture all my favorite moments.,,The story took us deeper into this post apocalyptic world. i really wanted more exploration of this world that naughty dog had created in part 1. I am glad I got to see that. The story-line is definitely darker, more brutal and unpredictable. I am that this game took me on a different path. It made me question my decisions. Whatever steps I took I felt i was synced with the character I was playing because I understood where they were coming from.,,In the end I will say, I was satisfied and in the need for more.  It's an original story. It's not based on a book or anything. It was made from scratch. That eliminates the element of predictability. I can't wait for Part III. The story can be summed by one of the best dialogues in gaming history, "Revenge is a fools game" - Arthur Morgan.
2390) the game is amazing, the writers took a unique way of presenting this story and I love that they took this risk, I like the mechanics and graphics of these games. had a lovely experience with this game.
2391) AWESOME, MASTERPIECE.,Just a few things in this game are predictable, but all the things that happen in the game you can't have a clue. Real brutal and fun to. Ellie grows in matters of character development.,I loved the experience, really good job naughty dog. ✌️
2392) Don’t jump on the hate train. This game was absolutely amazing,Though I was pissed at Abby in the beginning by the end I actually liked Abby & her story. Ellie absolutely love Ellie but totally understood from both characters Where they were coming from Abby wanted Justice for her fathers death & Ellie wanted justice for Joel’s. So by the end I understood where both of them were coming from
2393) Game of the generation along with red dead redemption 2. Please ignore the haters
2394) Game of the year,Best story. It’s the first game/movie that made me care deeply about both hero and villain equally!
2395) The best game ever made. Who disagrees did not play. Even if these people who are giving a low score really didn't like it, do you think the game would really be a 0?
2396) I have no words to describe this game, amazing. I really enjoyed playing this game. I cried so much, an amazing and emotional journey.These are my words.
2397) Very cool game!!!! No need to listen to anyone.  Need to complete the game.  Only after rating.
2398) I have just finished, and i dare to say: it is among the greatest game i have ever played.
2399) A masterpiece, both technically and story-wise. Have spent days after finishing the game thinking about the fate of the characters. While the game is at times very violent (and at times very serene and aesthetically pleasing), the violence leaves deep scars, both physically and emotionally. The Last of Us 2 shows that games like this offer a medium for story telling that cannot be done as effectively by other more traditional mediums. There is something very powerful about walking in the shoes of a character, that can’t be replicated when you are passively watching a movie, for example. The stakes feel much greater. This game is a ground breaking achievement.
2400) This game was a 10 /10. My initial play through was on survival difficultly and with all the exploring i did it took me about 46 hours. I enjoyed every second of it.  First i want to say I haven't even bothered watching any of the slander against last of us 2 from these R***** ass youtubers because its getting all these kids, who haven't even played the game giving such strong opinions they're starting to sound like the sjw **** they're "fighting against". In no way did the game make me gay or push any agenda on me other than to slaughter the **** out of everyone for revenge. abbys part of the story was amazing and it was an interesting point of view. spending the whole first half the game killing all these people only to learn who everyone is in the 2nd half was really interesting. and you learn who abby is and why she has spent like her whole life since her dad died bulking up just waiting for the day. so in a way she wanted and deserved her revenge more than ellie.  so im happy the way it ended. i really dont know why everyone expected a happy ending like this whole series hasn't been video game game of thrones with the way people die and sad **** happens. IF YOU ARE ON THE FENCE OR ENJOYED THE FIRST GAME PLAY THIS GAME.. The game play itself is improved in every way from the first game and as much as i love it i dont know if i could go back with all the missing features. my biggest and maybe only complaint is lack of multiplayer because the fist game had something special. with the new elements like jumping and prone i could see it being even crazier so hopefully it comes soon. this game is something everyone should experience its a true emotional roller coaster.
2401) Story is king in this emotionally draining epic, action-adventure, undead thriller that is a reflection of a path our society could choose. Taken as a gaming experience alone, it is a 10/10 journey through hell as your characters battle for their own survival. Taken as a statement on our current society, it is a bold, triggering document both on how close we are to descending into a tribalistic world similar to TLOU2, how dangerous that thinking is, and how the mirror is reflecting back on gamers who can't handle that statement.,,Cannot recommend this series enough. It's psychologically challenging. It's raw. Cannot miss.
2402) Finished The Last Of Us 2 over a week ago and still processing the experience. Terrifying, stunning, brave, gut-wrenching - this game has left me broken and totally in awe.
2403) I'm writing this review only to give merit and credit to the fantastic team that made this game possible. I finished the game yesterday, and only now I'm watching reaction online of the game. I shouldn't have done it, because it only made my angry. People disapointed for the most stupid things I ever heard in my life. "The intro is bad, the ending is bad, the story is bad...", the only answer to these people is: what game have you played? The intro was one of the greatest shock ever received, the story is fascinating, diverse and complex, and the ending gave the protagonist a shine oh hope for her future. What do you people wanted? To play as Joel for 20 hours and for him to die in the end saving Ellie? You all need to grow. Best game I played in years, without a doubt one of the best experience in the gaming world, at least in the top 10 of all time, and I don't meant for me, but in general. Thank you Naughty Dog for this masterpiece, really thank you.
2404) Highly recommend this masterpiece roller coaster. I just started playing these games. I played through part 2 first and then part 1. Play in whatever order but be ready to question your feelings, emotions, beliefs and morals. Some say they hate the story, but this is better then a movie it’s not supposed to be something you agree with the whole time. It’s extremely controversial and the developers really want to F*** with you. You’re not supposed to agree with everything and sometimes it will make you truly be dumbfounded with what you think is right and wrong. I truly love the story because it will make you happy, hopeful, sad, and angry. If you’re someone who’s looking for a great story that isn’t meant to be what you expect, this is it. Also the gameplay is amazing and if you like assassins creed or Batman Arkham series this is a great one. Graphics are top of the line best I’ve seen. This game is not for the light hearted.
2405) Absolute masterpiece! The attention to detail, and deep character development was unimaginably great! Real life is full of pain, sadness and heart break... but also love, excitement, and new beginnings. This game capitalizes on all of it. 10/10 Would play it thrice times.
2406) Awesome! A true life's storie! Good gameplay. Very emotional. Your brain almost explodes with so much emotion!
2407) I understand this game was divisive, but for me personally it might just be my favorite game I've ever experienced. The Last of Part II is a much a darker, much more complex game than its predecessor. Never before has a game's story played with my emotions and forced me to think about my beliefs as much as this one. The first game was one of my favorites for the same reason, but the sequel takes it a further. The gameplay is excellent, the characters feel real, and the world the game presents is a brutal reflection of just how low humanity can sink when we are pushed to our extreme limits. There is a lot of symbolism and story elements to dissect that will have fans talking for years, and for me that's a sign of some truly effective artistry.  I understand why some fans are upset, but I truly do believe after some more time has passed people will understand what this game set out to do and just how excellent it is when you really allow it to be.
2408) Sometimes telling a story isn’t about the beginning or the end. It’s about the middle. Capturing what is happening at that moment and building from there. This is what Ellie and Joel’s story is about. The chaotic world they have been thrown into and the choices they make all determine what happens. This game has made me laugh, made me cry and made me stay awake half the night analyzing the “what ifs.” It’s so real, sometimes I have to convince myself it’s just fiction, or is it? Naughty Dog, you are brilliant, and I respect your work and how amazing you all are.  Despite all the haters out there, please never stop creating and producing such amazing games. You have my support always.
2409) An absolute masterpiece, every inch of this rich and confronting world made with the greatest care. Thank you Neil Druckmann and Naughty Dog team for creating a game that in choosing NOT to simply lean back on laurels and appeal to the most common denominator, has crafted an experience that honours the greatness of the first installment, forges something new, and somehow manages to careen these perfect imperfect characters deeper into our aching hearts. It is not an easy journey, but this is what makes it so important, and so compelling. The controversy around this game should do nothing but highlight just how deeply this work of fiction has succeeded in confronting us, and provoking feelings very real.  Both games should forever serve as *the* textbook examples on the potential that interactive medium has for narrative depth - though I doubt we will see anything quite like it for a long long time. Having just finished it, my chest is heavy, I am exhausted, but my world is much better with this in it.
2410) The best game of the generation! Thanks, Naughty Dog, for taking such a risk on delivery a unique masterpiece like this. TLOU2 surpasses the first game in almost every way, from the graphics, gameplay, level design, to the characters, narrative structure, and the sheer volume and amount of content. The cautionary story told through masterful narrative techniques realized the characters like no other games.  This is truly a masterpiece, one of a kind.,,You might not like the story. You might wish the characters ended up in a different situation. But you cannot deny the care, the details, and the amount of polish that filled the game that making it an experience that everyone should at least give it the benefit of the doubt and try it out with an open mind.
2411) This story made me feel things that I never thought I would experience from a video game. I don't understand any of the hate that this game has received, it doesn't deserve it. I accept that some of the story events may have left people feeling empty but this in no way makes it a bad game. The gameplay is great and the horror elements ramp up substantially on this game compared to the first. All great elements. Loved it 10/10
2412) Well, here I go, as other users I have mixed feelings about this game. But after finish it, spending almost 35 hours of my life, analyzing details and discussing with my friends about it and not thinking in everything else for a few days, my conclusion is that this game is a masterpiece.,Story is complex, not easy to follow, breaks and really unfair most of the time. I totally understand users that really don't like. It is painful from the beginning ( but remember the first hour of game of TLOU) and it broke my heart at the end. Important thing about this game is that this is not a story about Joel, or Ellie, I think that  go really deep in human nature, instinct, irrational behaviour, sellfish purpuses and all of this taking into account the background of a distopic world.,For that reason they present a batch of stories of totally broken and traumatized people with their lights and their shadows but always depending on the point of view.,I never felt like this playing a game (and just a few movies), anger, disappointment, sadness, empathy for characters that I hated so bad at the beginning of the game.,Only for that, the game totally worth it for me. It was a risky choice by Naughty Dog and I think that they knew what they we're doing and what could happen.,This story and how it is told is not what we use to play and second part of the game was infuriating for me at the beginning but then you start to understand and feel different and regret of your thoughts and opinion.,They play with your mind and with the things you think you know, the real master of puppets.,Again, I totally understand people that don't like the game or waited a different story, for me it was a great experience.,So, thanks for being brave, for trying to make a different story, thanks for caring about every single detail, my conclusion thanks for what you make me feel, all the good and all the bad.
2413) The Last of Us Part II is a game that comes once in a generation. Everything about it is top notch! whether you are talking about gameplay, level design, story, sound design, graphics, acting or music. Game is technical marvel. Easily best sound design, graphics and animations we have ever seen in any video game. Combat is **** brutal and satisfying. Game offers some of the best action sequences but it doesn't feel over the top, it's grounded and intense. Like every other Naughty Dog game, TLOU2 is filled with mind-blowing details. Everything is thoughtfully realized and done intentionally. There is no single moment in story which isn't necessary. Game is huge, environments are enormous and it takes 25-30 hours to complete, mainly it depends on how you approach the game. Story is so good! yeah, it takes huge narrative risks but it isn't for shock value like many people claim. Everything that happens is service to the story. Killing of Joel is such an amazing way to ignite a revenge story. Also, game is much more than "revenge is bad." It's about trauma, anguish, grief redemption and love! Finally, I want to talk about actors and one and only Gustavo Santaolalla. Acting is hands down the best we've seen in any video game. Not only main actors (Ashley Johnson, Troy Baker, Laura Bailey) but every other actor is on another level. It is indeed Oscar worthy performance. If Ashley Johnson doesn't win every award for her performance as Ellie than I don't know who should win...  As I said Troy, Jeffrey Pierce, Laura and every other actor killed it and they deserve recognition too! Gustavo is a **** genius. All I can say about him is that if it's not Gustavo it's not The Last of Us.,Overall, TLOU2 is nothing short of masterpiece, it's so far ahead of any other video game.. Every aspect of it is unbelievably good. This game will be talked about for years to come.
2414) This game is phenomenal. This game had a tough act to follow, the first game was my favourite single player game ever. I was nervous if they could repeat the process but Naughty Dog did it again. The story is divisive, I loved it. I think a lot of people are struggling to let go of Joel and they are actually grieving for him. I loved his character but I also realised his flaws and also recognised he isn't the "hero" some make him out to be, I think this is pretty key to "getting" this game. If you decide to buy the game then my one piece of advice is keep an open mind and actually think about what's going on, read the notes, activate the optional conversations etc.,,So the graphics themselves are what we come to expect from Naughty Dog, industry leading and this is on a 7 year old machine, truly incredible.,,The acting for the characters is second to none, just watch the mannerisms of the characters especially in telling scenes. The dialogue is fantastic and fits with the what I think the characters would say and talk about.,,Sound design was incredible from the visceral noises of attacks and the blood gurgling death throws of the enemies. The music was again epic as like the first game really setting mood and tone for the scenes.,,Gameplay is an evolution of the first game, is far more fluid and fun switching from stealth to full action mode and back again easily. Variety in enemies was great and all feel like a true threat especially in numbers. Some of the new infected are pretty fun and scary in equal measure to fight.,,The story itself is pretty simple, but it's told very effectively. There's a portion of the game initially can be quite flustering and your wanting to go back to what you were doing before but the story development during this section is needed to get the full effect by the end and for me after a couple of hours this realisation was starting to hit home. It's a very thought provoking game and ND took risks which in today's boring AAA titles I welcome wholeheartedly.,,Seriously I was thinking about this game even after finishing it for weeks, currently on my second playthrough and love it. I certainly can't separate this from the first game and it's more of a continuation than a sequel so I guess both games are my favourite single player video game ever. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.
2415) I finished the game 2 days ago and it still haunts me just like the first game did but in a different way. It looks gorgeous. The scenery and characters look amazing. There is virtually no difference between the cut scenes and the gameplay and you often don't even realise you've entered or left one. The areas feel like they have a history and exist when the characters aren't there and there's lots of cool little details to find if you take the time to look around. The mechanics are an improvement on the previous game and the quicktime events have been reduced to a minimum and are very forgiving which was an issue with the previous one. Overall combat and movement is very smooth and the only small issue I had was that sometimes dodging in combat meant your attacker went off screen which was annoying. There a multiple ways to get through areas from stealth to combat to distractions to just running for it and often you'll end up doing a combination of all of those. Like the first game there were times the encounters dragged a little if you were stealth-ing it but there were scary and terrifying times too and fast moving action. The only "bug" I ever noticed was a hint icon wouldn't go away at one bit until I moved to the next area. I loved the first game and avidly avoided spoilers bar the teaser trailers and was excited to see what the story would hold. It was a tough story to experience and it is totally different from the first game. It's hard to pin down. It's a tale about revenge, loss, grief, consequences and bittersweet memories. It is not a happy story but it does have lighter moments too. It is told via cutscenes and the little character interactions like in the first game. I thought the voice acting, character animation and music was superb. Even listening to enemies will drop little details about whats going on plus there a load of notes and side stories to find. The game play does a good job of making you feel what the characters feel, even when you don't want to. It has an unexpected switch in the middle which caught me by surprise which I wasn't sure about but I went with it and it paid off. I understand why they had to do it that way and I think it was the right choice and for me it really worked. The characters do things I don't want them to but I understand their reasons which I loved about the first game too. The game makes me care about them and I want them to do better and I wanted them to survive this in spite of their actions. The ending was dark but with a glimmer of light and it will stay with me for a long time, much like the first one did. I absolutely loved it even though I felt like it absolutely destroyed me playing it. I want to give it a 10 but the extremely minor issues puts it at a 9 (edit: after much thought, reading that a game doesn't have to be perfect to get a 10 and now on my second play where I'm spotting foreshadowing I missed, I have to go with 10)
2416) To all the haters, at least we have a whole game with Joel. We got more time with him than my man Llewelyn Moss.
2417) I loved it. This was a game I had to talk about with friends for days after I beat it. It was complex, and emotionally draining. This isn't a game you beat. It's a game that beats you relentlessly until you are either numb, angry, sad, or conflicted. The fact it could take me to those places was fascinating. I'm on my second playthru and it still strikes me as difficult.  Not a hard game, but emotionally I get why people are angry about this. You are gonna suffer and that's what makes this game so unique. I have been gaming for 36 years and I have never played a game like this. This ones for the grown ups. Great job.
2418) I wrote a 2000 character review, but the entire thing glitched out and I really can't be bothered to write again, so here's a summary,,Graphics: 10,Gameplay: 10,Story: 9,,The gameplay was incredibly immersive and a huge step up from the first game. you can hide in small grass, under trucks, navigate through small crevasses, etc. It was amazing and incredible.,,The graphics were probably the best I've seen on the PS4. so it has to be a 10.,,The story was incredible until the last 2 hours and because it took me just over 20 hours to beat the game, thats 1/10th of the story so I have to take a point off. Although I understand the ending from a theoretical point of view, I hated having to perform the action. I don't want to beat Ellie to near death. I don't want to drown Abby. But the game could not progress without me doing that. It wasn't enjoyable and I hated that section. I also hated how Ellie chose to get revenge on Abby after Abby had spared her life TWICE. three times total if you include abby driving away on the boat.,,I did really like the symbolism of ellie losing her fingers so she can't play guitar - her last connection to Joel. That really dug in me the heart then. But the ending wasn't enjoyable to play/watch. So for that I give 9/10 for the story.,,So, in total, 29/30,rounded to 10.
2419) The GREAT game ever. Cool story and perfect gameplay. Game of the year 2020.
2420) I have never been struck so deeply by videogames until playing TLOU2. It has received so much polarising views probably for the reason that it takes our beloved characters in the first game, and subjects them to very difficult circumstances. Decisions that made narrative sense, and gave the story meaning and weight. The game also introduces a roster of new characters that are not immediately likeable, but i personally grew to understand and love. The game mechanics  is also stellar, improving on the all the good parts of the first game, and introducing a few new and fun things. Graphics are top notch.,,Naughty Dog could have just made another fun stealth zombie shooter like the first game, but they chose to do that while also telling a story that questions themes such as violence, tribalism, and how humans deal with loss, grief, and vengeance. I personally feel like this was an ambitious take that paid off, and has raised the bar for videogames, to affect people on the level of art. Thats not to say videogame isn't already art. It takes a team of various skillsets to make any videogame. and it takes them years to get a game into the hands of gamers who could easily disparage it even without playing it . So if you've read the leaks and dislike what you read, or you've heard a lot of vitriolic comments about the game but havent tried it for yourself, do give it a fair knock before writing it off. you may not agree with all of the choices ND made in this game which is completely fair, but you will definitely get something out of it!
2421) Awesome. Improved but recognizable mechanics, well-developed characters, bold plot. Such games rarely come out, must play. Registered just to support devs and say thank you.
2422) Honestly is a beautiful game. It's a must play and anyone hating on it probably honestly hasn't played it. If you love the first one you will love this one.
2423) Amazing game, everything is awesome, storyline is perfect, gameplay is hard but it’s good, u feel every bullet from your guns. It’s perfect
2424) It's very rare to find a game that stays with you so long after you finished it. What could have been a simple tale of revenge turned into an emotionally touching tale of redemption. PLAY THIS GAME
2425) I was very worried that this sequal would not live up to my expectations which were sky-high, but it went above and beyond. Loved the story, the new characters, and the gameplay.,Perhaps the best game i have wver played
2426) This is a spoiler free review for The Last of Us Part II,,The Last of Us Part II takes place a few years after the first part, with a focus on the now young adult Ellie.,,I played the game through twice (Survivor / Survivor +) and I can say by far that the gameplay is definitely one of the best third-person action games of our generation. The encounters with the opponents are very realistic and dynamic. There are almost endless ways to take out opponents in the style of Metal Gear Solid or as a John Wick. However, some options in the first run are limited for me, because of the difficulty I have chosen, there are few resources to be found. That is why it scores for me that Naughty Dog attaches great importance to difficulty settings. You can do certain aspects in the game, e.g. Adjust resources so that they are easier to find.,Of course, players who are very good at using a controller are particularly rewarded here, and those who are only used to playing with a mouse and keyboard can sometimes have difficulties. For me, this does not change that the gameplay raises the bar for future console games enormously.,,From a graphic point of view, everything is perfect at first glance. It is one of the most beautiful games alongside Red Dead Redemption 2. Above all, the performance of the voice actors combined with the incredibly good animation in the area of ​​motion capture is very well staged.,Rarely is music and sound built into a game as well as in The Last of Us. Never before in a game have I relied on the sound to survive. The death noises from the opponents also sound very brutal and sometimes a bit too exaggerated.,The only disadvantage is that with a basic Playstation the console sounds like an airplane. It is also a bitter aftertaste because the game is currently only playable at a maximum of 30 fps.,,Before I get to the most polarized point, namely story, I would like to say something first.,We are currently living in a time when many worldwide, have problems, including Corona virus and in some countries such as USA or Hong Kong there are also massive protests. Therefore, we should be careful what we do in the real world and above all what we say to the digital world. There is already too much negativity in life and you don't necessarily have to take someone's joy away from something just because you don't enjoy it yourself. Let us instead rejoice for this person, because this person would like to wish you this joy yourself. Constructive criticism is always welcome, but insulting someone for no reason goes too far.,,I can only say one thing about the story: This story will not make you happy.,However, this is not a negative criticism of the game. Those who like to play games to relax or enjoy a happy and entertaining story could have a very hard time at The Last of Us. With a risky narrative perspective, Naughty Dog dares to give players a new way to experience a game like no other studio has tried, at least as extreme as in The Last of Us. That's why the player is put to the test here by asking himself the question "Is that enough now?" or "Do I want more?" It is also an obstacle for the player to be able to read between the lines and not only to understand why the character did it, but to understand the entire journey of the characters. Anyone who lacks empathy and emotion you will definitely not be able to enjoy history as another player.,It is also important to get involved in the story impartially and above all without a spoiler. The plot may seem simple at first glance, but the story offers so much more. Secondary characters have their meaning and indirect influences on the main characters. Dialogues sound authentic and are brilliantly staged, as you know from previous games of Naughty Dog. There are so many symbols and parallels in this world and history that you don't immediately recognize, but the more you play you appreciate the work of the creators when you realize what they mean.,,The Last of Us Part II is not a game for everyone, but it is important to recognize that this game is important and will be for games to come. However, if you deny this, you are satisfied that games like Assassin's Creed or Call of Duty are used out annually and do not bring about great innovation (and I also like both games). For my part, I love it when game developers risk something and stay true to themselves because there would not be games like Death Stranding or the latest God of War. One has to accept that The Last of Us tells us a story that is firstly innovative on this medium and secondly seen by the creators as being worthy of the predecessor.,It is not just a game, but an experience, so I clearly recommend to play game and absolutely recommend to buy it.
2427) What can I say other than this is the BEST game I’ve ever played.,I don’t understand the negative reviews, and if anything it’s an indictment on today’s society. There are some people who haven’t even played the game and/or who are basing their decision on what happens in the game early on. It’s such a shame that these people cannot go through the process of the game to form their own judgment. It also goes to show these people don’t have a level of maturity required to play these games and/or have had much life experience. The pros: The story is phenomenal and a worthy experience. This is a game that will make you experience emotions and connections that you wouldn’t have experienced via a film or other game. These are real life emotions that will leave you unsettled at times and wanting to take a break. I had to stop the game on numerous times to take a break from the intensity. The gameplay is absolutely fantastic, it’s an improvement on the first game and so fluid. I never had any issues during the game. If anything, playing this game and having to go back to other games has marred those games. Nothing will be as good as this to date. In terms of the sound, please, please, play this game through headphones. It’s an absolute must! You will hear a living environment that is true to the settings. It’s amazing, and adds another dimension to the game. Cons There aren’t any.... people are the issue here. The poor reviews aren’t a true reflection of this game. If you’re on the fence about buying this, please keep an open mind, and go through the experience yourself, I promise you it will be worth it! This is, in my eyes, The game of the generation! And a fabulous send off for the PS4. I will recall this game as many recalled the last of us years later and remember it for what was, an amazing, breathtaking experience. Naughty Dog... you are amazing and thank you so much for this producing game.
2428) I don‘t know why so many people hate thies Game I Think it’s a very good Game and it is a must  play for every PlayStation 4 Player
2429) Of course, there are some claims to the story. At least I just didn’t expect this at all. But the game is great, thanks
2430) One of the best game in history!!! Perfect gameplay , perfect graphics, perfect story!!!
2431) the best game by all measures 1) plot 2) gameplay 3) graphics.,The end of the game is not clear to me where Ellie went in the end, where Dina went and that she also hid it from us ...
2432) They did everything right in their creative Liberty in my opinion even when I didn't feel comfortable with who died and what decisions the characters made. It's a 10/10 game for me,,I think it is important to make a difference between if a work of art is well made and if you liked experiencing it. The last of us 2 was an anxiety ridden, frustrating, anger inducing and sad experience for me. I cant say i had "fun" with it in a sense of i was laughing and joyful. But that's not what this games aspires to be. Still it is a 10/10 game for me because the narrative is cohesive, thought provoking and self reflective. I found myself stopping every so often to discuss with my partner how i or him would have reacted in the same or similar situation. The game keeps holding a mirror in front of your face and makes you think about the things that the characters in the game face themselves. The characters are met with such incredibly complex emotions and situations that make simple "yes no" answer just impossible.,I wasn't happy with the decisions that were made and the characters that were killed/not killed on a personal level but that's the point. on a analytic and professional level I dont have to agree with the choices of other people same as i don't have to agree with the choices that  characters make in a video game.,I would probably have reacted differently, but i respect the choices that were made and every death (yes..even THAT one) was a good choice in the context of story telling and motivation for the different consequences that unraveled after those deaths.,,Naughty dog made a masterpiece. Its coherent and it is able to pull the player in its gut wrenching story line, that made me unable to pull away from being asked very hard questions that have no clear answer.,,I really think people need to get over themselves just because decisions in the game are different from what those players would have decided themselves. I hope naughty dog doesn't deter from making such incredible thought provoking and brave pieces in the future.
2433) The Last of Part II is not just one of the greatest games but the greatest pieces of media I have ever enjoyed. It not only organically builds off of the first game to create an emotional experience the likes of which I doubt can be replicated but challenges the players ability to identify the other as a person with as much value and as rich a life as our own. To that end I guess I shouldn’t be surprised that so many people have dismissed this game out of hand. This game is no more a generic revenge tale than Last of Us I was a generic zombie apocalypse story. I have yet to see a criticism of the game that doesn’t base itself in homophobia, sexism, and/or an inability to imagine video games as a more complex story telling device. I don’t believe that the game is so perfect as to be without reproach but I want people to give the game a fair chance.
2434) I finished my first play through of The Last of Us Part II yesterday. One word describes my overall experience, wow!  My hat is off to Neil Druckmann and the Naughty Dog team on their beautifully dark masterpiece. Before I get into the story (which is clearly either I love it or I f@*$ing hate it), lets chat about the graphics.,I had NO idea our gracefully aging PS4 console had this much untapped potential. The incredible (INCREDIBLE) details, the animations, the acting, the dense and plush and extremely realistic environments, and the facial animations are insane. Talk about helping to suck you into the story. I don’t know how many times I was staring at the screen during a cut scene, mouth agape, and then realizing that I was making the same disgustingly contorted look of pain, anger, hate, and extreme sadness, mirroring Ellie! Boy, did it cause me (and clearly everyone else because of the emotional impact it is causing across the PS4 community) FEEL. And it does all of this while running at what is a very smooth frame rate. At least on my PS4 Pro.,Now, the story. Oh boy, was this a roller coaster ride. I’m not talking a little kids wanna be ride, I’m talking about the God damn Kingda Ka! The direction of the story is EXTREMELY different than the first game, which does explain some of the hate. But omg, was it surprising and emotional. And realistic. Very, very realistic. It doesn’t necessarily feel like a story written by the very talented team at ND because everything that happens is believable. Emotionally realistic.  Ill compare it to hearing my Grandpa’s war stories from WWII. No, I’m not equating WWII to a video game folks, but I am saying that it gives me a somewhat similar overall feeling. The feeling that I was being told about something so powerful, real, and impacting that actually took place.  But is hard to believe that it took place because it is so world changing. Not a made up story. In addition the “heroes”, the good AND the bad are all given detailed back stories. They help us to see and feel that the opposing side is arguably just as legitimate in their, what we thought were heinous acts.  Empathy.  That the “bad guys” might not be so bad and the “heroes” might not be all that heroic. That we are ALL humans and we all make mistakes. And sometimes bad decisions.,No, I will not be playing this as much as the first game. Not because it is lacking in any areas or isn't as fun but because it is so emotionally impacting. Because it no longer feels like I am playing a game. It now feels like I am playing a movie. But I absolutely love it and hope ND continues down this road.
2435) Form your own opinion, if you believed the first was a great game you'll love the second game. If you loved the story that pushed the boundaries of morality, you'll love this one too.
2436) This game is a masterpiece. Even if you don’t like the story, how  ND pulled off such an amazing experience is mind blowing. The intense scenes, actions parts, and stealth segment are all pulled off on an unparalleled way.,,The too political or bad story complaints are utter BS by Xbox/Nintendo  fan boys or insecure babies. The “leaks” and assumptions made are completely inaccurate about the new character and proves they didn’t play the game. They are the problem as people who didn’t get a story they want leaving unjustified bad reviews. Complaints that Abby is too built to be as girl, score it a 0? Really? None of this  makes it a bad game or takes away from what ND pulled off. Its completely ridiculous.,,Play this game.
2437) It’s honestly amazing,The acting, the characters, the gameplay,It’s amazing,The story could be changed a bit but honestly this game is beautiful I felt like the ending was nice but it should’ve shown a bit more
2438) The story are really incredible, i really love this game. Enjoy the gameplay
2439) It's a fantastic game. All its parts are astonishing. There can be two opinions about the story of this game and I like it. I was impressed by the story. Thank you Naughty dog for this masterpiece.
2440) This game is perfect in every way its goty for me loved the gameplay the graphics
2441) I wish English was my main language so that I could accurately express all the beautiful adjectives that this game deserves and describe the whole spectrum of wonderful and sometimes terrifying emotions I've experienced while playing it. A true masterpiece of this generation which sets the bar extremely high for future games to come. It's so impactful that I honestly believe it changed me as a person - I hope for the best.
2442) Amazing game - ignore the hate and try to avoid any spoilers. Very familiar game mechanics from the original with welcome additions and tweaks. There’s surprising character development that makes you re-evaluate what’s happening. Best game I’ve played in a long time.
2443) Exceptionally crafted, from story to graphics to the gameplay. Few issues include some pacing inconsistencies and minor gameplay mechanics here and there. Bar none, a worthy sequel to the original, which was an incredibly high bar to clear. A more accurate score would be a 9.7/10. In my opinion, it is the 2nd greatest game I’ve played in this generation, only behind Red Dead Redemption 2, and overall a contender for one of the greatest and most significant games of our time. Thank you, Naughty Dog.
2444) This game is just something else. Even though it wasn’t what I expected and the tragedy in this game hits you hard, it’s nonetheless one of the greatest games I have ever played.
2445) It's a master piece, hands down. I loved the first part, the second one rounds it up. So u say there is not enough backgroundstory to Abby? Excuse me it is enough to see why she acts the way she acts. Ellie and her revenge is kinda way the same. Only that Ellie is also the puzzlepiece to a cure, what makes her revenge "less" understandable. Especially when u see how she reacts to the truth Joel hided from her. Abby is just out wanting Ellie dead because Joel killed her father and Ellie killed her friends. So the Ending makes sense and fits in the traumata these two women have and their character-developement.,The Gameplay, Graphic and atmosphere is outstanding. It felt like a wonderful movie with interactions to get more and more into this world. The Last Of Us 1 was something special. But Part 2 is more a developement to the first Part, if u're focused to the details of the story and just tryin to get in the head of the main characters and their behaviour. Yes also in Abbys!,I dont accept the crunchtime-politics Naughty Dog is doing. But after all the **** u have to pay tribute and honor the hard work their employees have done over the last years. Cheerio!
2446) Outstanding gameplay and story. Was disappointed to read the reviews before I played...the game didn't disappoint though. The story hits hard, loved it.
2447) It came to break paradigms in the world of games. Okay, no one expected the game to take the proportion it did, but in the end it was amazing!! The reason they killed joel in that way was just for you to FEEL like ellie. Since the purpose of the game is to FEEL what Ellie felt. If it weren't for that, the game would fail in its proposal. TLOU is not just about Joel. it's about joel and ellie, 2 had more Joel than you think. We can see that he changed and lived the rest of his life in peace. A great tribute. In that world any person would die. What did you expect? a happy ending in a **** up world? did you want an honorable death? there is no villain or hero in this game. That would be a cliché. If you agree with Ellie's revenge then you also have to agree with Abby's revenge, after all it's the same feeling. But it's about consequences of revenge and understanding that the dark mind of the human mind can be a one-way trip. Flawless script, perfect soundtrack, ambiance, graphics. This hate is totally unfounded and childish to not understand the message that the game wanted to show, congratulations played wrong. Really was ND's most ambitious project, such a masterpiece!
2448) The design of the double-line protagonist brings a very unique experience. After the game ended, I fell into contemplation. The discussion of human nature shocked my heart.
2449) Beautiful game! Naughty Dog did a great work on the second part of the last of us. I played the first part and I really enjoyed it to go on zombie and bad guy hunt and adventure with Joel and Ellie. The first game was truly a master peace. The second game part II also did a great job. I really hated Abby for killing my favorite or one of my favorite character but the story needed this for Ellie to evolve her character and question herself. I think that really everybody thought the last thing they wanted to do is play with Abby and i hated her so much that i let her die a few times mode just for the satisfaction. But as the story continues i began more and more to understand her. To understand why she killed Joel. She herself isn't the pure evil and Ellie isn't the true good side either. But we love Ellie. She is one of the 2 characters we met and we fell in love with as we fell in love with the first part. I can understand people who dont like the second part but I really really love it.
2450) best game ever and belive me the last of us part 2 best game in history...❤️
2451) Easily a 10/10 if you don't like this game maybe you should actually play it.
2452) Is the first video game that has a deep level of exploration in the subconscious of the main characters that you will never find in any other video game. The emotional impact of their actions and character development, the storyline is perfectly designed to help you empathize with the character's feelings.,There is so much action mixed with a very engaging storyline. Packed with a lot of diversity and inclusion within its characters, this is probably the most accessible videogame in all the history where it can be played by visually impaired users.
2453) Excelent experience playing the game!,Amazing graphics, controls, dynamics and interactivity.,The whole history is really interesting and cool, the autors knew how to involve my heart and mind over and over!!!
2454) The game is a story telling masterpiece, had my blubbing like a baby throughout. I imagine only reason it’s being panned is the reviewers are homophobes. Greatest graphics this generation, hard hitting combat, interesting exploration, impeccable atmosphere, genuinely scary at times & some of the greatest story telling you’ll find in gaming. 10/10.
2455) I would like to thank the creators for their work. This is great. Including history. The script writer delivered what he wanted no matter what. The story is exciting and impressive. The plot will cause resentment in many, but as for me, this is exactly what you need. Complex and unbearably difficult denouement of the fates of our favorite heroes. Sleepless nights are guaranteed.
2456) One of the best game I have ever played. This emotional intensive part II really brings this great franchise to a whole new level (Joel and Ellie fighting some bad guys might be the story that some fans want, but it would be a quite stale sequel in my opinion). I am glad Naught Dog shows players a story from different prospective instead of defending joel. I appreciate the courage of the team for making such a controversial game. Hope time will tell the people how great this game is. Really looking forward to the part III.
2457) A chef d'oeuvre of video game history. Period. This game made you think again about your ethic life.
2458) With a very rich story. Twists everytime! A fantastic carachter development, you really understant why The things happens. Incredible game. A must play! Forget about The haters and travel togheter this game!
2459) I don't agree with all the bad reviews, this game is awesome. The story was great, and play with both Ellie and Abby was the bomb.
2460) An absolute masterpiece. No game has ever made me feel the way this game has. This will go down down as easily one of my all time favorites. Although a lot of people may disagree with these statements, that didn't stop me from enjoying the hell out of the 20 something hours I played.
2461) If you can look past the excessive violence - this is a generation-defining game. In short - it challenges you in so many ways - it challenges your assumptions about the characters you meet, about your motivations & theirs - there were many moments in which I cried, or just left with my mouth agape, its an experience I will not soon forget.
2462) Best game ever!,It is not a beautiful happy story!,It is about hate and you will hate the game in some parts because what it does you play.,For sure it will play with your emotions and will make you wonder.
2463) the most wholesome story-line ever, and awesome game play as well. It  has been more than 3 weeks since I've finished this game and I am still thinking about it every day.
2464) Every dumb4ss here like: "A character I liked died and then I had to see things from a perspective that I didn't like, so it's clearly a 1/10".,What's been done to this game on user reviews and meme culture is ridiculous.,This is a great game, and not liking some outcome of the story can't deny the quality of this piece of art. Solid story, great gameplay, lots of accessibility features (I don't see anyone adressing that, what the devs did is really amazing!), the music by Gustavo Santaolalla is as beautiful as on the first one, the voice and facial acting is impressive.,Just as Death Stranding is about connections and coming together as one, the underlying message of breaking the cycle of violence, hatred and revenge is just what we need in this moment. Paradoxically, for the people who need it the most, it falls on deaf ears.
2465) With the Stunning graphics and the intense yet fun gameplay alone, The Last Of Us 2 is a very fun game. It's the story that makes it the masterpiece it truly is. My advice would be to sit down, absorb the beautiful graphics and buckle for an unusual way of storytelling which I find to be incredible
2466) Despite some minor issues (pacing being a key one) this game is an unparalleled masterpiece. The only other game that can compete in my mind is the first TLOU. However the gameplay, graphics, environments, and mo-cap are drastically improved in this sequel. I loved the writing and thought every character felt like a fully developed person with their own faults, quirks, and ethical dilemmas. Others might disagree, but Abby is one of my favorite characters in recent memory and a fantastic addition to the franchise. This is a very nuanced story that will probably emotionally wreck you, but it is worth the ride. You also get your money's worth as this game is LOOONG. In retrospect, some sections were a lot more fun than others but while playing I was never bored. Highly recommended!
2467) literally the best game i’ve ever a play. love it. it is exciting, and different from what many people think, the message is not about revenge but about what people are capable of doing for love. graphics are wonderful.
2468) The Last of Us Part II has me crying. full on tears. best game i’ve ever played ever in my entire life. been waiting for this moment for 7 years. and about the end tho... it was SO realistic and so emotional... can’t believe Naughty Dog did that. Respect.
2469) From what I understand there are 3 main issues people have with this incredible game. 1. Wokeness: I understand the curiosity  and confusion that comes with encountering a non-gender conforming person.  I know that most people will think that the inclusion of so many LGBT people in this game was done so that they could appear woke. However I think that critique comes from people who don’t have a lot of diversity in their own lives. There will eventually be a time where LGBT characters in main roles will be not controversial at all, maybe when our own lives are equally diverse. O,2. The villain:I hated Abby from the moment that she killed Joel and when I had to play her I was annoyed. I kept on dying whenever I was forced To attack Elli. I didn’t believe that it was fair for Abby to get a redemptive art after she completed her revenge against Joel. I found it annoying and not believable whenever she all of a sudden took interest in taking care of two children. It felt forced But then at the end, she was given redemption by caring more about the life of that kid than her own. It wasn’t until the very end that I actually liked Abby and found myself trying to stop Ali from killing her. I don’t know if I wanna ever see her again but I’m glad I met her. 3. The Ending: The best part of the last game was the ethical dilemma at the end. I never thought that Joel should have killed all the fire flies  and stop the creation of a cure so that Ellie could live.  At the very end of this game, we realize that all we went through to kill Abby was for nothing. Right before Abby’s last breath Ellie  suddenly sees a glimpse of a memory that saves Abby’s life. Later on we see the full memory. Ellie is mad at Joel because now Ali has to find meaning in her life. Before she knew her meeting, she was a cure . Now she has to be like the rest of us and find our own lives’ meaning. Ellie has to find a meaning for her life. At the very end we don’t know a lot about what Ellie wants her life‘s meaning to be, but we know that it doesn’t even involve more senseless death and that’s why Abby gets to live.
2470) The best game you will ever play the game dynamics, graphics, characters, environment all the prospect of a good game is put down in one game, the story is good but not that good like the first one but it's ok.,Loving this no matter what you read on Internet bombarding all that negative reviews but I played and completed the game and its feel just fresh and awesome and looking for play another time in the hardest mode again.
2471) Phenomenally executed, a fantastic homage to the classic; While adding new bits and pieces you’d hope to see on top of all the things that made the original great. Don’t let the neckbeards dissuade you.
2472) The Last of Us Part II is, quite frankly, the best game I have ever played. Combat and gameplay are similar to the first game, but is expanded in smart and intuitive ways. But the real standout is the story, and the way it unfolds. There is a point halfway through the game where the story takes a twist that I've never seen before in a game. Chances are you will feel frustrated and you will be reluctant to keep playing. This is intentional. When you get to that point (and you will know it when it happens), take a deep breath, and keep going. There is much more to the story than meets the eye. On the whole, this game is a masterpiece. A work of art that raises the bar of what a video game can be. A worthy 10/10.
2473) I'm not understanding the 1 ratings. Unless you hate abby as much as I do but still it's an amazing game!! I have a lot of love hate for it but it by no means should get a 1star.  The game is well written and I don't understand the bad reviews.
2474) Outstanding game! Anyone who downrates this game because of the characters or story are just ridiculous and narrow minded. The range of emotion this sequel brings forth is on another level to gaming. It will keep you guessing until the very end and will have your jaw constantly dropping in awe at how stunningly and horrifying this apocalyptic earth has become. It is beyond me how people could possibly rate this lower than an 8.
2475) Great gameplay that builds upon the previous game with added movement actions like jumping, dodgimg and prone. Seamless stealth and action with well integrated and creative environmental puzzles (largely thanks to the amazing rope physics.),,The graphics are amazing, one of the best looking games on PS4. They're really pushing the PS4 Pro hardware to it's limits and it shows.,,Very bold and ambitious storytelling that aims to challenge people personal biases by subverting expectations and I believe it's done very well.,,Some of the best characterization in a video game. Hyper realistic characters with lots of emotional depth. Really fantastic writing.,,The way most people are criticizing this game is very shallow and reactionary.  I think there are valid criticisms about the game. Not necessarily all ones that I will agree completely with but more valid ones nonetheless.,,I understand if the game if the game is too grim for some people's liking. That’s going to be a preference thing and people have different thresholds for that. It's a sad, feel bad kind of game but it's also beautiful too.,,I know this is not a story many wanted.,,I had no story that I wanted. I like my expectations subverted when done well and for the most part I think they did do it well.,,I think it's one of the best, most ambitious games ever made.
2476) what a masterpiece, best game i've ever played for sure, story, character design was on point. Sure, everyone has their own perspective on the story, you just don't experience your own story, but someone else's. And that is what makes this game so great. You experience the story through the eyes of an independent person, without you really having any influence on the decisions of the characters, it is Ellies and Abby's story and not ours. Guess a lot of people don't get it right or don't understand the meaning behind it, too bad.
2477) It’s a perfect game, don’t care what anyone says. These people who are dogging on this game just can’t handle anything if it’s not predictable or a fairytale with a happy ending. **** those people, read more books learn to lose and learn to experience emotion good or bad. The game is a masterpiece.
2478) i like the game specially the story of it. actually after playing this game you can feel the game and it is enjoyable. good luck naughty dog and i hope to have another last of us,
2479) Beautiful writing of the story told with amazing graphics, music and voice acting.
2480) Best game. Emotionally very hard game. It shows the essence of people in difficult times. I played the whole game with my mouth open. I recommend to go through part 1 first
2481) What an unbelievable thrillride. Made me experience things I haven't before in any other game.
2482) Absolutely beautiful game filled with an emotional story and addicting gameplay. The story is so gripping from start to finish. One of my top 3 favorite games ever.
2483) This game is amazing. The work that NaughtyDog put into creating the story and gameplay is well worth the cost of buying this game new.
2484) Game is very good ! I am delighted! Sanks to Sony and Naughty dog for this masterpies! You are best!
2485) A masterpiece. Beautiful lighting and sound design. Top notch acting. Stunning set pieces, gorgeous graphics, fluid gameplay and a mature story.  I loved the original TLOU and this game matched, and in some cases exceeded, my expectations. Well done Naughty Dog.
2486) The last of us part II is a sad and heartbreaking masterpiece.,,It is the melody of violence and rage, and a demonstration of how a traumatic event can change us forever and bring us down to the depths of revenge. Revenge is a disease.,,Abby's storyline shows us how our actions have consequences and that our perspective can be greater. While playing Abby, you learn why she killed Joel, and then you mean that Ellie and Abby aren't so different, they both lost a beloved one.,,The side qualities :,- The sound design is good as hell !,- Graphics (of course),- A basic gameplay in the service of history that didn't need to be fleshed out.,- the themes addressed without forcing and propaganda (lgbt, religions...) its all about tolerance !,,BUT :( :,- Some plot hole.,- Not enought Gustavo music moment.
2487) An amazing continuation of a game that set a very high standard for single player narrative driven games.,The gameplay feels like a refined and better version of the first game. The world is so well thought out and the level design is so detailed. The story (no spoilers) is complex and engaging one from the very beginning. If you have already been spoiled with some of the details, I still think you should go in with an open mind and let the game tell you the story how it was designed to.
2488) Unbelievable.  This game is insanely good, even though we lose someone near and dear.  The acting is first class, with both graphics and gameplay adding to the sense of intense realism with every single environment.  A particular flashback really got me in the feels, and the guitar interludes are superbly handled.
2489) Sorry if my words are incomprehensible because I translated them into English with Google Translate,This game is definitely the best game in history, the game's narration is really great and very, very meaningful that most of them can't understand because they are just looking for a hobby and this directing and story is very suitable for the movie to be like because there are people who  Understand more
2490) Superb game...Beware of negative reviews. There has been an online campaign against this game by trolls and competitors. A lot of negative reviews were posted right after game launch, before one would've had time to complete the game which took me 30 hours.
2491) This game is a technical masterpiece and has made me very complicated and challenging feelings unlike any other game. Narrative-wise, Naughty Dog makes bold decisions and hopes that the player is trusting enough to go along for the ride. If you are open-minded, this game is easily one of the most evocative pieces of media I have consumed in my lifetime and is well worth experiencing.
2492) My opinion on the story: The last of Us is not about Ellie and Joel. It's about representing a realistic society in extreme conditions. This also means that all characters are realistic and complex and because of this, a simple and linear revenge story would make no sense for the game. Abby's story in the game is not about making people feel bad for her. It's about showing that realistic characters have their own personal conflicts motivations to accomplish their goals. Playing Abby's part forces the player to understand that Ellie's motivation for revenge isn't anything special outside her own perspective. This might be a tough realization but it creates a very unique (and disturbing) feeling in the player.,Having said that, I also think that the game does a fine job innovating in the concept of storytelling in a video game: The structure allows the story to be even more emotional and character-focused that Part 1. In conclusion, I would agree that it's not a game for everyone but I deeply appreciate that the development team took big risks to make the best game from a creative standpoint instead of one designed to please the fans.
2493) I can't believe how people expected a dream world of Ellie fighting trough an evil world, saving everyone and keeps on living the dream of her life... This game is beyond everything I've played before and as much as I was hoping to keep a small piece of that dream, it's not realistic.... We've got what we deserved, and I'm sorry for everyone who can't sense the deaper meaning of the story we've been told.
2494) I loved this game…AWESOME!  I loved the story and the graphics. One of the best games I played this year. Two thumbs up…It is a must buy. It is an emotional roller-coaster with amazing action and it was well worth the wait. However, I am not surprise by some of the negative reviews from the homophobe bigots. I am glad I purchased this game and didn’t listen to the foolishness from some small minded people. I give this game a 10!
2495) This game is amazingly deep, tense, and serves as a worthy predecessor to the first game. It tells a dark and hopeless story of what people will to for revenge, and how it won't make you happy. The returning characters as well as new characters are as compelling as ever with great development for all them. Standout characters are Ellie, Joel, Tommy, Dina, and Laura Bailey's new character, Abby. Gameplay is top notch too, with some of the best gunplay Naughty Dog has ever done. Stealth is also improved with new options for sneaking past your enemies: but it has a catch. Since you're more stealthy this time around, enemies are smarter, and look in places you wouldn't expect them to. The graphics are incredible and make this dangerous world feel alive. One of my favorite areas was the starting area, Jackson. The snow-capped mountains and small streams make this area beautiful and a joy to explore. My final verdict is a 10/10
2496) Very good and fun game overall. What it missed (and that doesn't make it bad) was one of those iconic Naughty Dog moments that move the whole industry forward.,For instance, characters tumbling and not landing perfect jumps in Uncharted, that awesome fight inside a moving train and on a collapsing building in Uncharted 2, the fight sequence in Uncharted 3 on moving cars and the boat sinking... This one added a few things, like crouching and obviously the environments are beautiful, they dared to have a lesbian protagonist and let you play with a villain... But all in all, it didn't feel as BIG as Naught Dog game, even thought it was awesome.
2497) Ingenious game. One of the best in this generation. I enjoyed every minute of it.
2498) I enjoyed it too much, the most ambitious game that I have played until today. I did not like Aby at first but little by little she won my heart to the point of drawing tears in a particular situation. Great game that explores the different faces that the characters have as heroes and villains at the same time. I finished it a week ago and I'm still reflecting on what I experienced.
2499) Incredible game, incredible story. Unpredictable, heartbreaking, well developed characters, this is by far GOTY 2020
2500) The Last of Us 2 was the second instalment and cannon of the first Last of Us game, This game did a great job portraying Ellie in her new quest to get revenge on Abby. The Character design, world design and appearance of this game is perfect, the story is immersive and emotions you get from this game is unlike the other game naughty dogs has created, great job naughty dogs for another successful game.
2501) Hi, everyone. 1 week ago I completed The last of us part 2. And I think this is the best game from a mechanical point of view. I mean graphics and psychics. All details, even the smallest worked out perfectly. Ok, let’s speak about plot and storyline. I don’t understand, why so many people think the story is boring and stupid. Perhaps  because  they didn’t understand all morality and meaning that Neil Druckmann wanted to convey to them. Game has a very deep morality. It wanted  to show us, what revenge can do. Ellie lost her  fat mily: Joel, Dina, Tommi and AJ. And that revenge Beersheba more revenge. That’s allbreeds more revenge. That’s all.
2502) Enjoyed every single second from start to finish. Every single thing the developers set out to do with the story affected me in the way they had intended. Joel deserves the fate he was given, he was never a good guy. He had murdered and killed innocent people in the past and finally paid the price for his wrongdoings. I disliked playing as Abby at first, but once her reasonings were explained, I started to empathise with her, and by the ending I didn’t know who I wanted to die, I was probably leaning towards Abby killing Ellie, actually. I enjoyed the ending despite popular opinion. Ellie deserved to be alone after all the pain she caused everyone, seeking needless revenge for an act that was justified 10x over. even after murdering all of abbys friends, she still wasn’t satisfied. The last shot of her being unable to play guitar and realising that her last bit of connection with Joel was severed was heartbreaking and a good way to show her realising that seeking revenge caused her to lose everything. We don’t need a happy feel good ending all the time, and it seems like too many people struggle with empathy and things not turning out the way that they’d like. Phenomenal job in every single aspect of video game creation. I can’t stand scary games, but I couldn’t put this down because I was so obsessed. Music was incredible, combat was brutal, smooth and enjoyable. The graphics are the best I’ve ever seen and the attention to detail is unmatched. For anyone to give this anything under an 7 after experiencing the gameplay even with their moaning about the story is laughable.
2503) Worth waiting this whole time!!! Every minute was pure gold. I really don’t understand complaining about the story. It was amazing! Simple, but not the abvious one, and emotionally touching. Thank you Naughty Dog for this adventure!
2504) Even if the story was very bad, the game would still have an 8/10, everything else makes it perfect. I can understand that it is not for all tastes but it is easily one of the best games of the generation, it is a game for adults, not for children who simply cry because they did not like something without understanding anything, in short, it is a masterpiece.
2505) This thing blew me away. A complex dive into what it's like to grieve a loved one, to lose everything.  And the brave decision to swap over half way to another character.. people will hate it and people will love it. This game seriously deserves better than the bad reviews it's getting... Play it for yourself and do your own opinion. But for me this is one of the easiest 10/10 I've given. This and God of war are the definitive PS4 games in my opinion.
2506) The game is great!,Very emotional, cool characters, great graphics. I have played 30+ hours and do not regret the purchase
2507) Frustrating at times to be sure but a beautifully told story that challenges the player to appreciate perspective and the duality of man. Combat and looting is fun though some more environmental puzzles would’ve have been good. Shouldn't be judged as merely a continuation of a beloved story or to ones own expectations but on its own merits and appreciated for what it’s trying to achieve. The writing and character development is brilliant In my opinion however if players either didn't like the first game or are looking for a happy story by Naughty Dog I’d suggest playing Uncharted instead. Overall despite some shortcomings The Last of Us 2 is a masterpiece greater than the sum of its parts.
2508) Part II is an unavoidable achievement in so many ways. The few things it doesn’t get right don’t bog it down as many seem to think. Collectively speaking, this game subverts expectations in ways that make it stand out head and shoulders above the rest. For that reason alone, you should feel confident that the money you drop on this game will be money well spent. The PlayStation 4 couldn’t have received a better swan song.
2509) Ok so unless you have the maturity of someone who has never read a book or watched a good script movie, you’ll like the game AND the surprising unlinear and unconventional good story. But if you are conservative and immature gameplayer who doesn’t appreciate to be surprised, this game is not for you. A masterpiece of B side, to be fully appreciated on the next years. Loved it.
2510) The Last of Us is the best game of 2010-2020 years. The Last of Us Part II is the best game of 2020-2029 years.
2511) Nice game.  Good and interesting story.  Very nice graphics.  Sometimes small mistakes, but it doesn't spoil the game in any way
2512) Love this Game, sound design, scenarios, models and art, amazing
2513) It's weirdly funny and sad at the same time reading the users reviews haha. You can see how much self centered and spoiled people are nowadays. People describe the entire story without understanding nothing about it. Always the same: "destroyed the characters", "doesn't do what fans wanted/waited", "too much political agenda"bla bla bla.  First: the theme of the game is hate, revenge, ambiguity and consequences. But overall, how hate destroy people and those who surround them. So yes, the characters that we love from the first game were destroyed in terrible ways to show us the consequence of giving into such a negative feeling. Of course it was annoying playing as Abby after what happened. And that was the point. The team behind the game knew exactly what they were doing. They didn't try to make us "like" Abby, just to show us how similar she was to Joel and that the only reason we love him and hate her, is because of perspectives and proximity,  not because of the people they are. Ellie sees that in the end, she sees in Abby and Lev exactly the same stuff that happened with Joel and herself. Speaking about the end, lots of people crying like spoiled kids, saying that they at least wanted to "choose". Undestand this: that is ellie's story, not yours, not mine. And guess what, ellie wanted to kill Abby too, she didn't forgave her and will never do. She just sees joel and herself reflected on Abby and lev, got maturity and decides that she doesn't want to be a person like Abby and Joel, who put their egoistic feeling (whether it be love or hatred) in front of their own humanity. After all, that was all the problem between ellie and Joel, she couldn't accept that he did the terrible thing he did in the end of the first game just because of the feelings he had for her. Joel was a monster who tried to redime himself through Ellie. Same way Abby became a monster in her path of vengeance and tries to redime herself through Lev and Yara. Ellie just realizes that cycle and decided (unfortunately too late, maybe) that she didn't want to be like them. The game is uncomfortable, maybe even frustrating sometimes, bitter. But that is perfect to make you feel like Ellie and Abby do. You can feel how tendentious we are, here, in real life. And for that, we can realize that in those circumstances, most likely we would do the same terrible things those three characters did. The game speaks a lot about ourselves, our egoistic tendencies. It's a honest mirror, and maybe because of that, so much people can't stand it. Finally, about the political stuff in the game, it's ridiculous that people here say that "game is not place for that". Game is, before everything, art. And there is no better place for questioning, representing and  expressing opinions than in art. That's why art stands for. And of course, it includes above all the political themes since they are so important to people and society. To me, the best thing about this game is to throw in our faces the clear message: Things you like are not necessarily good or better, and things that you dislike are not necessarily bad or worse. In fact, good or bad depends all of perspective. It can seem cliche message for a well lettered and reasonable person (rare stuff nowadays), but the geniality of the game is in letting us feel our annoy and anger while playing as abby, feel our frustration with ellie letting her alive. Just to realize later how hypocrit we are for feeling those feelings, since Joel and Abby did almost the same thing (he did worse, actually) and Abby left Ellie alive TWICE, even after she killed all her friends and the person she loved. All that said, the game to me is obviously a 10, because I love art pieces that are capable of making me questioning myself in a deep and honest way. But if you are a spoiled person incapable to do so, or if you just seek for uncompromised entertainment,  tham I say to you: The Last of Us Part all is not for you. And the developers made it very clear since the beginning.
2514) Amazing game. the gameplay is great, the story is exciting and the graphics are everything I expected. recommend!
2515) I expected no less, wasnt dissapointed. The story is once again thrilling and the character development simply incredible. I've grown to like seemingly unlikable characters and to hate the others. Also the looks are astonishing. This is truly the peak of what the slowly retiring PS4 can do. My hat is off!
2516) This game gave me feelings I never felt before. Play it all the way through and you discover it's an absolute masterpiece!
2517) One of the best games I have ever played, I'm so grateful that I wasn't raised as too much of a bigot to enjoy a game simply because it has both a Jewish character and a Trans character.
2518) TLOU2 is the sequel we needed. Complex characters dealing with complex situations and emotions in a brutal world that is expertly realised. Acting, writing, tech, cinematography, gameplay - all exceed and improve on those of Part 1. I can't wait to see what the next journey Naughty Dog takes us on will be.
2519) The game was very good. Each Naughty Dog project is an event, and The Last of Us Part II is no exception. The studio once again proved that there are almost no equal to the development of the world, production moments, the very feeling of the game and its penetration. But if you can’t get to the Last of Us and, for example, Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End with all your will, then this time there are nuances.
2520) Story, gameplay, roles, characters... Everything is perfect. Thanks Naughty Dog
2521) This has to be one of the best written stories  that I've ever experienced in a video game. This is much more than a game. It's DEEP! The  action and the gameplay overall are also excellent.
2522) Amazing, honestly despite everything I gave this game a go and was 100% not disappointed. I personally think this is the best game ever made, not to say it's my favourite but it definitely is close.
2523) An awesom experience with a game that in many ways almost trancends computergaming (Ellie playing an acoustic version of Take on me, and it happened in a computergame folks, come on!) I had no problem with this not being a 100% Ellie/ Joel story, I got to like playing as Abby, and came to actually fear losing both of the two protagonists in the end. Il’l admit that I found some of the ex firefly characters less interesting, and the story could have been shorter overall, but then again knowing that it will probably be about 7 years before I get to play in this world again, I chose to just enjoy it all and be thankfull.,Listen, I grew up with the Commodore 64 and the Amiga, and to witness how far cpu games have come with this game is just mindblowing. I experienced every feeling playing as either Ellie og Abby, fear, anger, Sandras, joy, awe, happiness, relief etc. Very few games can give you that, if any. And I havn’t even mentioned the incredible visuals, the beautiful music and the rest of the technical aspects of the game itself, the controls, the AI, the UI etc, all working almost flawlessly. I have no hate for this game, no hate for its characters (for those who don’t believe woman can be build like Abby, wake up and smell the crossfit sport) and no hate for the fact that eventhough at the core of it all, this is Ellis story, it’s also Abbys and what a story it is!
2524) Such a great game. Everyone should play this game, keep open-mind while playing. Don't expect a similar story like the Part 1. Gameplay wise its very similar to the Part 1. But the story is very different. Where the part 1 had very straight forward storyline, this one has very complicated story. Part 1 was all about Joel & Ellie, but this one is much bigger than just them. Gameplay is too much fun. Play in hard or survivor difficulty,Its much more intense and fun. I have no words for graphics,  NaughtyDog just nailed it. This is the best looking game I have ever played in my life.,Some people are just spreading negativity and hate about this game without even playing. Just ignore them. This game is a must buy.
2525) Peoples personal feelings aside..the "video game" is awesome simply put i went in knowing at the end of the day im playing a "video game" hats off to the team at naughty dog you guys did what you had to do i cant wait for the next installment!
2526) Awesome game. The graphics, gameplay, and the story. While it has few flaws its still very good
2527) This game is a masterpiece. The story, the graphics, everything. The story is powerful and touching and it simply left me feeling brokenhearted at the end.
2528) Finished the game on Hard in about three weeks. In the first Last of Us game, I got uncomfortable about getting practically no choice but to go murder lots of people. This time it was even more uncomfortable practically all the time, but I think they managed to make it more intentional and clear -- it's not supposed to be comfortable.,,So I actually preferred the plot in part 2, although I'd say I was more driven by the thrill of the insane, gratuitous, brutal action scenes than anything else. I simply love the chaotic mess that most fights turn into. But rest assured the story is solid enough, and NOT "full of gaping plot holes" or failing at "subverting expectations".,,Gameplay-wise, I'd prefer larger sandboxes to these completely pre-scripted events. There certainly would have already been enough content in the game to make it a more open place with some optional side missions etc. If I had my way, in hard mode you'd need to go through a lot of optional missions and find all the "bonus rooms" to get everything upgraded, to have a chance at proceeding through some harder bosses. Now instead you'll just have a harder time getting upgrades, because of lesser resources. Fine, that works as a way to make the game harder, but as a competionist, I wasn't too happy to have to start a "new game+" to get everything maxxed out. Of course I appreciate the option, but would have preferred to do it in one run.,,Same complaint as the first game: For a game that carries a message of anti-violence (however hypocritical that may be), I'd love to see more options to solve the levels non-lethally, such as zip-tying enemies or taking a hostage. You can kind of take a hostage and hold a gun on someone,for 3 seconds. Not sure if I missed something here, but it seems they just always struggle out of it, unless you kill them almost straight away.,,You can still sneak or run through most levels, but that essentially feels like you just skipped them.,And the game doesn't award you for letting those people live. You'll just miss out on the ammo you could have found on them (and the excitement of the fight).,,My absolute favourite part was triggering the undead against the live enemies, hiding and letting them kill each other! I was so thrilled about that, and then quite disappointed afterwards, that there was the only that single encounter where you could do that.,,Graphically, animatically, cinematographically etc. not even the haters are contesting that it's the best-looking game ever, and runs near-perfect on a standard PS4 (like, what do we need the PS5 for?), so... Even with my small gripes a very solid 10/10 "interactive movie".
2529) The Last of Us Part 2 is probably one of the best games that I have ever played. There are so many just beautiful things about the game, one of which is obviously the stunning graphics and another being the brilliant game play. But contrary to what many seem to be saying, it also has a masterfully written story that makes you question your actions while seeking your revenge after the death of Joel. Now... the death of Joel is something that many seem mad about, but in all honesty, there is nothing wrong with his death, it is realistic, it makes us face the harsh reality of the world that is The Last of Us. While I do agree that Joel died a bit early, it is in no way detrimental to the story whatsoever and gives you a drive to push through the many violent encounters to find Abby.,,Now that we have gotten to the subject, I think that Abby is a brilliant character that had the unfortunate role of being the one to kill Joel. When comparing Ellie and Abby you see that there are many parallels between the two and the seem to follow the constant idea of 'If I ever were to lose you, I'd surely lose myself'. Yes, as a hardcore Ellie fan, it was heartbreaking to play as Abby and try to kill Ellie, but it also let's us realize that Ellie and Joel aren't the only people in this world who have lost people, Ellie and Joel are not the only people who feel, there are consequences to out actions.,,The flashbacks were emotional, with the Birthday flashback possibly being my favorite segment of the game, and once you get to the end you come to realize that the death of Joel not only ripped Ellie of her father figure, but also her chance to forgive Joel, again reinforcing the idea of how cruel and spontaneous this world can be.,,The ending was also one of the best endings I have ever seen, bringing me to tears as I saw the aftermath of Ellie's revenge, missing two fingers and unable to play the guitar the Joel gave her, all the while Abby is still alive. Leaving Abby alive was something that I was very mad about when I heard about the ending initially, but when I finally played to the end, I realised that this was what I as the player wanted, I just waned Ellie to stop this senseless violence, to move on. Having Abby on the verge of death had me thinking 'Is this even worth it any more?". I'm glad this ending really resonated with me but I can understand how many would not like this.,,This game was beautiful, again, one of the best games that I have ever played and is certainly worth a play. Don't judge the game before playing it and try not to go into it with anger about the spoilers in mind or a belief that Joel is an invincible hero that is not susceptible to change, otherwise your experience will be ruined. If you do go into it with an open mind as Troy Baker said, I am confident that you will love the game.
2530) It's a great and awesome game. Storytelling and gameplay is even better than in part one. People who are hating it, are doing this because they can't handle death and sadness in the game. That's not very mature.
2531) This game blew my mind, amazing set pieces. Sounds and looks amazing. Gameplay was fun, if not a little overwhelming at times. Story was great. Not as good as the last one story wise but everything else was cranked to 11 on this one. Looking forward to replaying next year
2532) Such a fantastic Game!!!!!Great Gameplay, the graphics are Insane,just a masterpiece
2533) A sequel disinterested in 'more of the same.',,The Last of Us Part II transcends the question of “what happens next?” by carefully unpacking the events of its predecessor and using them as a platform to convey the impact that loss, trauma and revenge have on the human spirit.
2534) By showing the character's humanity (that is, their strengths and flaws as 'people'), it created what I feel is an authentic and 'real' sequel for part 1 and what would be expected for a story-based survival/horror game; supported by excellent voice acting, animation and understated  soundtrack.
2535) Breaking the rules and barriers of what you can do and what you cannot, how you should tell a story, how you do characters and dialogs, how you design levels and mechanics, how you do a cutscenes, and how everything can look, game strikes a nuclear formula.,,Like a game before it, it's a testament to the generation and what industry achieved in all these years. It's one of the best games ever made and feels like a true art. Love it or hate, it's here, leaving us sleepless again, returning us to childhood when games were actually interesting. Leaving us eager for more...,,Objectively, even with all this hate taken into account, it deserves to be bought and played at least once worst case scenario. But honestly I think it's well worth buying PS4 now and PS5 this Christmas.
2536) Honestly, why are you people review bombing this game, it is fantastic if you actually sit down and **** play it. Yes it has lesbian relationship in it and it may not be your cup of tea but it's hardly really the main thing in the story, the first part of the game is set up and if you base all you know about this game off of that then you're an idiot. If you play any longer than that then you'll see that the story has a lot to tell. Seriously guys just play the game whole game before making a review.
2537) The Last Of Us 2, darkest most depressing game indeed, the ending was darker than anyone would expect. I almost had a stroke watching it. I love it because it managed to make me more confused and speechless and sad while at the same time teaching a lesson about revenge. My rating of this game is not what other ppl would say,Story: 8/10 because the order was a bit messy Gameplay: 9/10 because there were some minor glitches that happen very rarely Details: 10/10,Accessibility: 10/10,Political Point Of View: 1/10 because it supports LGBT and feminism,Level Design: 10/10,Realism (Story): 10/10 Realism (Gameplay): 8/10 bots barely see you in sneak gameplay if you’re at Normal difficulty or below but would be more realistic in higher difficulties,Quality: 10/10,Lip syncing: 10/10,Facial expressions: 10/10,Emotions: 10/10,Message: 10/10
2538) The last of Us is one of the greatest games of all time and my personal favourite, as a result I felt no game would live up to the original. BUT naughty dog knocked it outta the park with this one. The game follow this 'pulp fiction' type structure jumping back and forwards and around. Yes, the game throws us a huge curveball at the start but I felt this was fantastic storytelling. I love everything about this game and struggle to see why fans are upset, I for one felt covercome with emitions and a felling of saddnes. Great Game!
2539) Its not the masterpiece that we were waiting, but it's a masterpiece that we didn't know that we need it
2540) So many bold decisions were made to continue the story, and I see why It doesn’t necessarily speak to those looking for a more formulaic and traditional game. These stories feel like a good book—they make you care for well-written, three-dimensional characters who aren’t perfect, but in fact quite flawed. This isn’t a story about heroes and villains, but a story about how humans respond to violence, pain, loss, and mourning, and the cycle of violence that arises from harm and revenge.,Technically, the visuals are breathtaking, the gameplay is fun and nerve racking with simple yet challenging mechanics topped with excellent animations, beautiful and detailed environments, and too-quality graphics. Naughty Dog just doesn’t disappoint. 10/10
2541) A flawed masterpiece, greate attemptation which expanded the possibility of video game.
2542) This is a fantastic, amazing game.  I consider it to be a masterpiece and it plots the trajectory for an engrossing new form of future video games.  The negative reviews posted are done so to be either intentionally malicious, or those posting have a very narrow genre of gaming they find "enjoyable" to play.  It is excellent.  Ignore the negatives.
2543) One of the most beatiful games on PS4, perfect gameplay, excellent sequel. Great story about hate and revenge, that violence breeds more violence. Fair desire at the beginning may give birth to the,inequitable and terrible things, that makes good person merciless and cruel. Before the second part, you have to play the original one, in order to notice many interestin things, and understand behaviour of the main characters.
2544) Perfect game. Concluded what was a fantastic first game and really pulled on the heart strings. I say concluded as that is more of a hope, the game has been so tense and traumatic, over the course of both games, that I am happy to end it with it being up there as the best series I have ever played.
2545) Shame on you review bombers, you have no respect for the incredible work from developers! gamers community has to grow up and to gain more maturity... This is maybe the only game that makes you feel it's realy more than a game, it's something else, never characters development has been more real and deep in the whole industry, all with a solid game mechanics and mind blowing graphics.,,It's the ultimate complete solo non open world game experience that makes you think of it days after finishing it...
2546) While I'm also a little tired of getting other people's political views shoved down my throat in my games whether I agree with them or not, it was a very minor part of a 30+ hour game.,,People seem to review just to be part of the angry mob or by using their fragile emotions rather than analyzing every part of the game from start to finish using... well, your brain. I did everything I could to avoid any spoilers and kept completely away from reading why people were outraged. I would've probably been swayed to feel a different way if I had engaged with the hysteria. I was expecting it to be clear to me why people were raging so hard, but throughout the game I couldn't figure out what it was.,Graphics and sound in this game is just mind blowing.,The storytelling methods and production value is unmatched and groundbreaking, whether you like the plot or not, which I did.,They did some bold things with some of the story which in the end turned out really powerful in my opinion.,The gameplay is slightly above average with no new innovations, which is standard Naughty Dog, but that's not why you play their games.,Basically I got exactly what I expected from a last of us sequel and I had a gaming experience that I will remember for a long time.
2547) Some of the bravest storytelling in a game I've ever seen, if not any form of media.  Well done Naughty Dog, loved every second of this wild emotional ride.  The fact that absurd people are threatening the actress who played Abby goes to show how impactful this game is (granted I of course do not condone any form of bullying of real people for a way they portray fictional characters, come on people).
2548) What an insanely great game. Gut wrenching, edge of your seat story, and a combat system that allows for so many dynamic confrontations. I came into this game full of skepticism expecting to be disappointed based upon the online controversy as LoU 1 is one of my all time favorite games. This matches and exceeds the original in so many ways from combat, enemies, graphics, and cutscenes that make you feel like your playing through a love action movie. Well done Naughty Dog, you've pulled off creating a 2nd masterpiece and am excited about the next chapter in this saga.
2549) People need to play this to rate this. It calls each one of us out very very subtly.
2550) Touched me emotionally! If you're open for what the game has to offer you won't be disappointed.
2551) One of the most emotional experiences in any video game i have played. There are no obvious heroes or villains in this world. Everybody has their own motivation for their actions. The game is about a cycle of violence which is very hard to break. The character detail and acting is a new level for video games. I do not get the hate for the game. I believe a lot of people did not get the message. You have to experience the whole game.
2552) Best experience ever on a videogame. Better than Part I, which is also awesome. Naughty Dog brought us a masterpiece again. One week after finished the game, still impacted with the story.
2553) As a person who thought  that tlou part 1 is a greatest game ever I must admit that the second part now became my favorite game ever. Thank you Neil and all the team.
2554) I was utterly obsessed with the Part I, equally so with Part II, and imagine (hope) will be the same for Part III.
2555) I really liked the second part of the story.  At the beginning i thought playing both characters would be difficult, but it wasn't. It was good for me to see,  that there's not only black and white, good and Bad.
2556) Wow.This game best game year!I like this game.Wow.I will replay and replay this beautiful game.I don't understand people who put a score below 5.
2557) Quite simply gobsmacked at how thought provoking this game has been. A huge fan of its predecessor, I was, like many fans I'm sure, anticipating this title way more than any other release this year. Promo trailers and pre-release gameplay footage aside, I managed to go into the game blind... almost. Despite trying to deftly avoid all spoilers following the controversial leaks at the end of April, ultimately one key scene managed to slip through my net. However, I was determined not to let this ruin my enjoyment of the game - if anything the furore and inexplicably vitriolic waves of hostility that were being levelled at the game that erupted online only served to strengthen my resolve to play it first and make my own mind up how I felt. Well, having done that (twice now, already), I can safely state that this game has not been a disappoint. Sure, certain story beats hit hard, but that's exactly what I was counting on from the get go - I wasn't expecting a happy-go-lucky road movie adventure. We all knew that this was going to be a darker, revenge-oriented story, and even way back when the very first teaser trailer was released, some of the fan ase plot theories that immediately started circulating really weren't so wide of the mark, so certain key plot elements shouldn't have been such a leap of disbelief. As for the narrative, it's brilliantly written. The sterling performances from the entire cast really help flesh out this world - even the NPC dialogue feels so much more naturalistic, especially during combat - I was utterly riveted once I got fully immersed in palm-sweatingly tense slealth, mêlée combat and gunplay encounters with this infinitely more realistic array of foes. And as to the horror quotient:  there are some genuinely harrowing jump-scares and breath-holdingly creepy encounters that kept me glued, unblinking, to my TV screen. There are some brilliantly vertiginous, stomach-turning key sequences too. In fact, at times, the entire game feels like a long string of finely crafted set-pieces. It does suffer a little with pacing issues at times, but as a gamer who likes to take their time and get their money's worth, this really didn't bother me all that much. My first playthrough took me a smidge over 50 hours, my second, 45 or so. Ker-ching. Gameplay-wise, there are improvements to the overall mechanics that make this so much more fluid and satisfying. I've played the original through probably a dozen times now since its release - and I can see myself returning to The Last Of Us Part II for many repeat visits to come.
2558) Masterpiece. Pushed the norms beyond the Disneyfied, happy-go-lucky, everybody hugs and goes home or protagonist vs antagonist formula.,Told and experienced through some very interesting and understandable dynamics between characters.,There's a lot of snowflakes around these times, buy this is exactly what we needed and I applaud Naughty Dog for this accomplishment. Superb production.
2559) It is masterpiece in this year!!!,Thank you Troy, Ashley, Neil and other... (I love u)
2560) Game is great I enjoy more than part 1 and consider it one of my favorite.,Spoiler....,If you can’t deal with Joel death move on but don’t hate, Joel was always the villain.,I can’t wait for an Abby dlc and Joel stand-alone before elli so we can see the real Joel when he was a smuggler.
2561) Amazing game with unexpected twists, great gameplay, great graphics, great story, but i wish certain characters wouldn't get killed.
2562) Just finished the game and I think it was a masterpiece. I felt so many different emotions throughout, it truly made me think and that’s what I think was a big part of this game. It didn’t make you just think in terms of story but also in terms of strategy. The gameplay was fluid and playing on survival made me really plan out my next steps. I don’t fully understand a lot of other peoples hate for the story, yes it was brutal what happened to Joel and sad to see him die so early however it’s a brutal world they live in and that’s what happened. I think they did amazing work as I was enraged and distraught just as Ellie was, I wasn’t just playing as Ellie I was Ellie. Then things turned around and something happened that none of us expected, we were forced to play as the character we had come to hate. However it gave us an opportunity to do what a lot of people don’t do, look at the other side of the picture. I felt sick at first having to play as Abby, however as time went on and we found out more I began to almost understand in some way. Again it made me think...I still hated Abby for what she did but I know why she did it, it’s more or less the same reason for why Ellie is going down her own revenge path. I fully understood by the end that the main idea was forgiveness and the ability to move on, breaking the cycle of revenge. Abby has clearly been through a lot with the rattlers and I think that was one of the reasons that Ellie let her go, mainly though I believe it was that she saw Joel in Abby at that point, regarding her love and dedication to saving Lev, just as Joel did for Ellie. Furthermore I just want to say how amazing the little details are in this game and the side stories you find out through collecting artefacts. The scenery and the music. This game was a masterpiece to me, harrowing yet beautiful. I could go on and on, there may be things that weren’t quite right with the game but If so I don’t care. I enjoyed it and that’s what matters. Also just play it to blow someone’s legs off with explosive arrows.
2563) Best game ever made 10 out of 10 next gen game ..top level gameplay and graphics ..and a really dark and moving story that makes you love and hate every character
2564) Think people get to comfortable about their heroes in games and don't really want then to change or evolve in any way. Was I shock when I had to play the person that killed Joel. Of course but it was a risk that naughty dog wanted to make to show people how it is on the other side. I get why people are upset but why would you let that ruin your experience  of an amazing game. They push the bar to bring you something different, something new. To me tlou2 is an amazing game that I will defend
2565) Ignore the nonsense user score. This game is an absolute masterpiece, and one of the very best games I have ever played.,The characters, gameplay, acting, direction, graphics and story are outstanding.  People claiming that the story is a simple revenge quest have really missed masses of clever detail & nuance. If you liked the first one, you’ll love this. Definitely get it.
2566) This game does not deserve a 10/10, but it doesn’t deserve the thousands upon thousands of 0 posted within the first 12 hours of the game being available. I hate review bombing from people who never even played the game.
2567) You know a game is good, when you keep thinking about it for weeks after you've finished playing it. The Last of Us Part II is not at all what I was expecting but much better because of it.
2568) This game really touched me deeply. I had to think about it a lot. I don't understand why so many people are not happy with it, because I like the story and the message behind. And even if you don't like the story it's definitely not 0/0, because it looks and sounds so amazing. For me The Last of Us Part II is a masterpiece.
2569) Just finished it after 37h. Technically, best game ever. I wish the confrontations were just cut-scenes and not playable, I hated to have to attack Ellie or Abbie
2570) The best game I've ever played. One of the best experiences of my life. Looking forward to my 3rd play through on the ps5
2571) Don’t believe the babies crying about this game. It’s a supremely moving, as well as harrowing, piece of art. It grapples with the themes and messages it sets out to with a confidence and capability that I’ve never seen in a video game. Utterly masterful and bleak in a way that fits perfectly with the historical moment we’re living in. Playing this game felt like watching one of my favorite movies - No Country For Old Men - for the first time. Simply amazing
2572) GREAT ! They create a Masterpiece. After 7 years I'm satisfied. Thank You Naughty Dog !
2573) Genius masterpiece. I enjoyed every second of this game. Such detailed and well-planned world and amazing story. Bravo
2574) I really like this game, starting from the gameplay, graphics, music, characters, emotion, and a very tense story that makes the heart feel sad and happy. I hope the last of us 3 comes too.
2575) Absolute masterpiece, 30+hours on my first playthrough and immediately restarted it again.,,Phenomenal.
2576) Much like the harrowing journey and violence set upon the game’s leads (and the leads themselves), The Last of Us Part II is messy, brutal, conflicting and altogether imperfect. That being said, the sum of its strengths and flaws form an absolute masterpiece in interactive storytelling that delves into themes of revenge and the consequences behind the cycle of violence. Amidst the pain and sorrow the story brings us an underlying sense of hope that, given the current times we’re in, is needed now more than ever.
2577) After completing the second part of the game, we can say that the plot of the game is the best at the moment.  The plot has a huge number of touching moments, since the first part of the game it was clear that the plot will be ahead of time and for a long time no one can repeat it.  There are not many fragments with the LGBT community and are tolerant for those who are negative about LGBT people. An amazing game with many details, plans and new ideas from the developers and you can immediately see that they definitely did not lose time, that can not be said about the new GTA part from Rockstar
2578) A brave game, with a power message, characters with a extremely  complexity, all this years waiting the game  was rewarding
2579) It's a masterful achievement of storytelling, one that transcends the gaming medium. It's filled with characters that feel as real as though they were there by your side, which makes every beat of the narrative, the sweet and the sour, that much more impactful.,On a technical level, the game also delivers. Lots of moments of beauty and suspense provided by the actual gameplay. On a few levels, I found myself inwardly praising the clever level design.,,Games like this are generational! Feel a little sad now that I've finished it!
2580) Such an emotional game. Great character arcs and something I'll never forget. Thank you naughty dog
2581) Masterpiece defines this game.,It is fantastic to be able to see the events, losses and consequences of the outbreak from more than one perspective.  It's amazing how the director makes you have a lot of feelings and makes you question your own sense of justice and revenge all the time.  One of the best games of the last 20 years and certainly a strong candidate for the game of the year.  It is a pity that some people punctuate the game for representativeness and in the 21st century judge the individual decisions of others as something that hurts their own existence.  If the idea of ​​the game was to shock and annoy homophobics by treating homosexuality as something normal (that is) he succeeded.  Naughty Dog consolidates itself as one of the greatest developers of our times.
2582) Even if you might not like the story of TLOU2, technically this is the most amazing game out there. The way all the animations blend in so smoothly is great, the dynamic combat with how you always have to think what move you're going to make with the add of the beautiful graphics, which sets the atmosphere incredibly, and the sound design is just mind blowing.
2583) I don't understand how people rated this so low?!!!! it is honestly the best game ive ever played. the first game was #1 in my book for a long time before this came out and while I was skeptical that a sequel could be anything besides terrible given how so many are these days this game surpasses the first. 10/10 would recommend to a friend.
2584) Thank you Naughty Dog for another Masterpiece! It was a remarkable journey with full of rollercoaster emotions. TLOU2 is one of the best games I have played!!!! Can't wait for TLOU3
2585) Unprecedented attention to detail combined with an incredibly addictive gameplay loop, makes for a can't miss gaming experience. Finished it a week ago and I can't stop thinking  about it.
2586) I have enjoyed the game from the beginning to the end. A deep story with excellent game play mechanics, wonderful music and sound mixing. I don´t regret buying this game. Such a great work.
2587) Is a amazing history
2588) Masterful.  One of the best stories in any survival horror video game. The story is not as good as it’s prequel but far superior to most other games out there. Best acting and character design in any game ever, without exception.  Full disclosure: I love hyper dark and cynical storylines and this delivers. Gameplay is similar to Last of Us but with critical added gameplay mechanics to spice things up and improved AI to increase the challenge.  As even the critics will admit, the graphics and soundtrack are perfection.  Buy this!  You will not regret it!
2589) Last of us II is the best game on ps4,  as for me,  with good story and impressive gameplay! 10/10!!
2590) First off, this is my first game of the series that I played. I never played the first game. I saw all leaks prior of the release date and it never discouraged me purchasing this game. I think it even made me want to play it more to be completely honest. It took some time getting used to the controller mechanics but I picked it up really quick. Although, I may not like the fact that Joel die, I like the story overall. I never played a game that you get to play the first half as the antagonist and the other half as the protagonist. So I have to give credit to Naughty  Dog for thinking outside the box. The graphics and physics are top quality everything about this game is awesome.
2591) Incredible game, loved it more than even the first one. I think the negative reviews stem from people who just heard about the spoilers and didn't actually play the game itself. Awesome game play, graphics and voice acting. The ending concluded the story perfectly and I wouldn't have changed a thing.
2592) Could’ve been better but still the best game out there because of it’s gameplay and the story was lit too.
2593) This game is a masterpiece. There were moments that I wished the story didn’t go the way it did but stick it out and listen to the story they are you. It’s an amazing story with near perfect graphics and gameplay.
2594) One of the best games. Visually stunning, great character animation. Sound and music is great too. Story could be better, but it isnt as bad as some are saying. Really enjoyed it. Looking forward to part 3 already! Thank u Naughty Dog.
2595) With this game, I avoided reviews due to the amount of people trying their hardest to spoil the game for everyone. I’m very glad I did. A lot of people have talked poorly of the game without giving it a second thought / playing with tunnel vision.,My honest review is that I truly don’t think I’ll ever have an experience like this in my lifetime again. The amount of work these people put into this game shows, and it shows a LOT. From the sounds (if you shoot a person, the death screams are haunting. If you shoot them in the mouth or throat, you can hear the blood fill up their throat and lungs. It’s insanely realistic. Even the sound of rain as it hits different surfaces.. you can HEAR the difference) to the facial expressions were absolutely phenomenal. One thing I kept mentioning was how REAL the characters looked and acted. Their facial expressions were so amazing to look at. It was awe-inspiring. The mechanics were near flawless, the environment was beautiful from the forest down to the scary, spore-infested buildings.,As for the story, I don’t want to say too much due to spoilers, but it had me hooked from beginning to end. It broke my heart and ravished my soul over and over again but I feel like it was a GOOD thing. It pulled emotions from me harder than any game I have ever played previous to this (I have a large back catalog of these) to the point that I cried remembering some things even after the credits rolled and I had the time to take a day to think about it.,I chose to give this game a 10/10. It is well-deserving of this score and I wish I could rate it higher.,Well done, Naughty Dog.
2596) This game is a genuine masterpiece, not only one of the best of this generation, but one of the all time best.
2597) Nothing words. 11/10,ᅠ ᅠ ᅠᅠ ᅠ ᅠᅠ ᅠ ᅠᅠ ᅠ ᅠᅠ ᅠ ᅠ
2598) One of the most incredible stories I’ve ever experienced. It’s bold, challenging and thrilling. Amazing characters - both returning and new - and brilliant voice acting. The gameplay is both familiar and yet vastly improved. It also looks absolutely beautiful. Thanks to Neil and the team for giving us this.
2599) F**k all the negative reviews! Instead of complaining I trusted the developers artistic expression and played it through. It’s a masterpiece, the best game I have played!
2600) Naughty Dog made a bravely breakthrough from their last great achievement. The first TLOU is an epic and seems unsurpassable. But TLOU2 goes beyond great imagination. As one of the best and greatest interactive art achievements, TLOU2 combines playing games and watching movies seamlessly and inseparable. TLOU2 will have the immortality fame of gaming history.
2601) A game about love, loss, vengeance and finding humanity. i loved this game it shows that the world of last of us is a small world, i feel like it makes sense for Joel to die because the truth is he isn't a good person no one is in the world of last of us is, there are only survivors and when u survive in the world of last of us you survive at the cost of other people. many people are mad at the ending but its an amazing ending, because Ellie stepped up to be the better person even though Abby has done that a couple of time by letting Ellie live multiple times.  People hate Abby's character but she is a conflicted character who is afraid of the idea of opening up.  i feel Abby being Buff is a very smart decision from Naughty Dog's side as i feel like Ellie and Abby are two types of people, Ellie withered in sorrow and became a shell of her former self and Abby became stronger with one goal in her mind after her father's death and it was vengeance. Many people are angry over how Joel died and i think his death made sense as if it were for Joel from the first game sure he would have been able to see an ambush from a mile away but this Joel within those 5 years found his humanity started to trust people more. Life for Joel wasn't all about surviving its about making sure Ellie (his second shot at life) gets to feel welcomed, loved and cared, you cant do this without opening up. When you open up you start to trust people more and you are vulnerable. The ending in my opinion is magnificent, Ellie forgives Abby and lets her go, like a good person, its an "Eye for an eye" situation, Joel kills Abby's father and Abby takes vengeance by killing him the fight is settled. Ellie forgives Abby thus ending the cycle. People were mad over the fact that "Ellie only realized vengeance is bad after all the killing she did", i see where most people come from, but its one of those things when you embark on this journey the final prize always seems glorious and worthy of the risk and to make things worse the idea of it only becomes better and better as time goes on but when you get their it aint worth it. overall one of the best games i have ever played. It also showcase how hate is very much a strong emotion how much it propels people to get what they think is rightfully theirs.  If you are mad at Joel going straight into an ambush you need to think about this its been 5 years since the first game, Joel isn't that guy anymore he knows what it feels like to care and be cared, when saw Abby he didn't see her as a threat he only saw her as girl who is around Ellie's age. See Joel was in a place where he was loved and loves someone Ellie, believe it or not sometimes its easier to be hated by everyone, than be loved because love does this weird thing where you feel welcomed and comfortable and being that Jackson area he was a respected part of that neighborhood, so when Joel saw Abby he could only think of this girl no older than Ellie,not the inevitable danger.
2602) One of the best games ever.  The narrative’s quality is unsurpassed; I highly recommend this game to anyone.
2603) I'll never forget finishing this game for the first time and walking away so shook to my very core. I honestly don't ever leave reviews or sign up for stuff I'll never use like metacritic, but I just really wanted to give my two cents. This game is amazing.,,Technically it's the best game I've ever played. The gameplay is very much like the first but it's a lot smoother and more deep than it was before. It's disappointing that each character still only has one animation for each thing that they do but it still feels really satisfying to do it. The game also looks amazing, it's up there with God of War and RDR2 as the most beautiful games I've ever played. The atmosphere at times can be truly terrifying, and the violence can sometimes be so brutal even i go "holy -" I think part of their goal was for the player to get sick of the violence and it really did that for me. Druckman said the game wouldn't be fun but engaging and that's how I felt playing it pretty much the whole time. The more wholesome parts of the game really warmed my heart as a huge fan of the first game and I also got to experience that unrelenting violence and terror all over again in a new game. I'm really pleased.,,As far as the story, it's great. It was a lot better than some people will give it credit. It's like when the leaks happened people just jumped on the hate train even if they weren't really that upset and are just making sure that people don't enjoy the things they want to enjoy. Those same people expect Ellie to still be a 14 yr old girl at heart even though her chances of being a cure for mankind have come and gone, which would be devestating. And they think Joel is an invinsible brick wall with no emotions, even though they've never seen him in an environment where he's not thinknig about survival 24/7. In the end I got all my questions from the first game answered, and that's all I really asked for. The timeline and pacing of the story was really engaging and I liked the way it was executed.,,All in all this game has taken a spot in in my top 5 of all time, and I can't gush about it enough. You should definitely play it yourself if you haven't, because I'm sure 90% of the people giving it poor reviews have no plans on even buying it. Definitely try it for yourself, I think you'll like it.
2604) This game is a masterpiece, it was the best story I've ever experienced, the graphics and gameplay are beyond its generation. Part 2 is better than Part 1 in all cases
2605) hi . This game is best of the world. But end game is very strang . I am sad for end this game . this game is very very very very perfect
2606) This game is awesome! It really delivers in every way possible. From the story to the over-the-top intense action sequences, it truely is a masterpiece!!
2607) incredible game, the best thing I've played in recent years. recommend to everyone if you like good games
2608) I loved the first game, and loved this too. It's not perfect, but in my opinion no game can be, so a 10/10 score for me is reserved for something which is unique or achieves something no other game can.  I'd rate TLOU1 and RDR2 10/10 as well. I felt strong emotions playing the first game and this hit me even harder.  It was painful but absolutely worth it in my book.  Great job by everyone who made this amazing experience.
2609) "You have enemies? Good. That means you’ve stood up for something, sometime in your life." The fact that this game is so polarizing is exactly why you should play it. If you want a fake fairy tale game with happy endings, this is not your game. Naughty Dog kept it real, and sometimes, real is messy. Apparently some fans cannot accept that. Well done Naughty Dog. Well done. An emotional rollercoaster that was worth the wait. I cannot wait to play it again and again. And again.
2610) I created an account just to give this game a well deserved 10. This game is not meant to please the player. It's like drinking a Scotch while listening to Bob Dylan's 'A hard rains going fall' and watching 'No Country for Old Man'. It's not suppose to be 'fun'. It's a "heavy" game and I loved it.
2611) People need to appreciate the game for what it truly is. A great tragedy on both ends of the story. Getting to see it from both points of view changed everything for me and was absolutely necessary for us to understand both women and their need for revenge. But most importantly what that need causes them to lose. I hope there’s more to come.
2612) THE BEST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED. The Story is awesome, Two girls as the main caracters
2613) This game is excellent on so many levels. It did exceed all of my expectations in terms of story, mechanics, characters, visuals and overall emotional rollercoaster that the Last of us universe got us hooked on. Moreover, it was quite  an impossible challenge to make a sequel to the great Last of us game that could be equally amazing. In my opinion, Part II has nailed it! I enjoyed every bit of it to the fullest.
2614) Best game ever made, whoever says it's a bad game either haven't played or is a bad person. Also, Abby is the best character in the game, shed did what she did, but managed to first break the cycle of hatred. It's real sad that I had to create a metacritic account just to counter balance all the negative reviews.
2615) Masterpiece! This game is so good, yet so different from the previous one. I actually have no words to describe it. Stop everything that you are doing and go experience for yourself.
2616) The game is great, but for killing Joel, I give the game a huge minus. :( .
2617) It was the best game of the year. It's been a week since the ending, but I was lingering in one's..
2618) Story- One of the best I’ve ever experienced in a game. Acting and writing is on another level.,Gameplay-Incredible, fun, creative, and immersive. Very well done.,Visuals-Unreal. Even on PS4 slim, it looks so good.,Overall- This is hands down one of the best modern games ever made. The critic reviews are spot on. Those review bombing have a obviously never played the game.
2619) Brilliant. I played the game on survivor from the very start and enjoyed every moment of the game and story. Other than brief annoyances when playing with Abby the game truly was phenomenal. My eyes teared when finishing the game.,A worthy successor to the original tlou
2620) A quality game that constantly offers something new. Absolutely original, top graphics. Playing as a supporting character is probably more interesting. The surprising death of some people. The game shows a harsh, ruthless, cruel, hateful world. Condemning the game to an end is complete nonsense. Rating 10/10
2621) This is a groundbreaking game. Naughty dog has a vision and a journey that they are trying to use the medium of the game to convey, as opposed to television or movie or song.,The pure amount of detail in this game will take weeks for a person to explore. The world is well developed and even for people who did not like the way the story went they cannot deny the pure world building and the risk that they made to tell the story.
2622) The best game, as if I fell in love. Not a single game evoked such an admiration for me except the witcher 3
2623) Black as coal, a mature tale of revenge. Brilliant audiovisual and graphic setting. Masterpiece.
2624) As someone who actually played and finished the game (busy with + mode now), I really loved Part 2. The big event at the beginning was spoiled for me, but I kept hope alive that it was out of context. As many others, I was sad, angry, and disappointed that it happened, but I understand that this is the world they live in. It’s not a happy ending type of world. The second half of the game was not spoiled for me, and so I was shocked to see the character who features. I felt weird playing as Abby, but I could understand her perspective. The game made me do things I did not want to which, in the moment, I did not like, but I understood why ND placed that on the player. The two confrontations presented me with so much internal turmoil, and I didn’t want to align with the characters. The open-ended ending makes me hopeful that a third installment will be on the way.  There was so much to digest and I wanted to experience the game again. As of this post, I am on day 2 in Seattle with Ellie. I love the world and characters of TLOU.
2625) Amazing journey. One of the best works seen in videogame history. A milestone. Thanks to all Naughty Dog staff for this masterpiece.
2626) Masterful storytelling. All those posting reviews on day of release clearly have not even played it. This is easily as good if not better than The Last of Us (part 1) and the game toys with your emotion the entire way through, finished this morning and instantly started a second playthrough!
2627) This game is stunning and beautiful and i know people did not like the game because joel died but it was so that ellie's revenge like they said in the trailers make sense to the story but about abby naughty dog just wanted that you can see abby's perspective so you can understand that no one in this world is good. Otherwise the game is actually one of the best ive ever played
2628) 7 years. 7 years is a long time to wait for a sequel to The Last of Us, possibly one of the greatest games ever made. So, after all these years how could Naughty Dog ever make a sequel to live up to part 1? The answer is Part 2. For what seems like forever I heard nothing but bad, negative and hatefull things about The Last of us 2 on how "the game betreys and spits in the face of fans", and "the writing is garbage", and "we hate that **** Abby". With so much negativity and hate, I questioned whether or not I should even get it, and to be honest I was worried about the game. However, unlike most gamers I am very open minded and wasn't going to judge the game untill I got it and played it. I went in knowing one of the spoilers but I didn't let that discourage me. And I'm glad  I did.The Last of Us Part 2 exceeds part 1 in every way possible. The graphics are breathtaking, the sound design perfect, the level of detail in every environment you walk through is beyond magnificent, combat is grounded and brutal. Ashley Johnson's performance of Ellie was the highlight of the whole game, she deserves an award for her performance! The Last of Us Part 2 was an emotional game to get through, by end of it I was wiping tears from my eyes. When the credits rolled I was left with the same awe and amazement after playing The Last of Us back in 2013. With The Last of Us Part 2 Naughty Dog has cemented why they are the BEST developer in the world, no other developer comes close to the talent and pedigree they achieve. Don't listen to all the parasitic haters that say the game is bad, the game is a masterpiece.
2629) I played this game open minded (without seeing leaks or spoilers) and this game played with me.,I encourage you to do likewise with this seminal work and make up your own mind.,You will be moved in unpredictable ways: perhaps love or hate (as evidenced by the polarized review scores) or a range of feelings in between but you can't ignore it because it will leave you thinking about it and processing it for days afterwards just like the original.,EDIT: July 13 I am now on my second play-through and the story resonates even more with context eg. Owen to Abby in the first hour, " I want what you want...just not at any cost."
2630) You have to play all of it and go into this game with an open mind. Amazing storytelling, amazing character development and nothing we've ever emotionally experienced in gaming before. No-one said this would be a happy ending. It may not be the game most people wanted but it may just be the game we needed.
2631) It's a game that challenges the player in a way that never happens in a triple A game before. It was risky but their manege to do it in such a powerful way that players are still dealing with it. A powerful story with a powerful message that many people are going to comment in years to come. Accomplish with an excellent gameplay. Naughty Dog made the most ambitious game ever. And succeed in every way.
2632) Maybe not better than Part 1, but also a very good gaming experience. Naughty Dog did a great job
2633) Perfect! It's everything the first game did so well but mote of it and with new gameplay features to keep it fresh! Total emotional roller coaster start to end, especially for fans of the first game!
2634) This game is an action packed slaughter fest if you like or a stealth filled revenge tour of the ages. Its all about preference.  Use the different enemies against each other or calmly take out all foes without a sound. Story was great from start to finish!  It maybe ran a little long towards the end but overall it was superb story telling and a massive success.  Im ready to dig into new game plus mode!
2635) Man, I had to create an account, because it´s not fair what is happening to this great game. I just finished it and it has been an awesome journey. I usually don´t finish all the games that I start, just only a few and this one is one of them. The depth of the characters and the story has been was the best part of it.,,In my opinion, people are just giving a low score because 1# they are attached to a character from the first game that dies soon and 2# they are uncomfortable with lesbians. That´s it.
2636) Masterful storytelling and incredible gameplay. It might not be the story you want but it’s her story and a story that needed to be told. Only in a medium like games can something such as this game do something like this and impact your soul and shake it up a bit. It needs to be a game that is experienced by all that can.
2637) A masterpiece that leaves the player with a lot of thougts and mixed emotions.,I've never played a game twice in my life...but not this time
2638) Just finished the game. Was a bit worried with all the negative reviews. But in all honesty it was a great game. One of the best I ever played. I definitely think it was better than the first one.
2639) This game is simply a beautiful masterpiece! I have never been so emotional in a game like in TLOU 2. What a message...worth the wait and the best way to end this generation of consoles. The only down side is that it sets the bar really high for all other games to come.
2640) A brave, worthy and extremely well-made follow up. The worst I could say about it is that it’s maybe a little bit too long.
2641) A story that attacks your emotion with no regard for convention or expectation. It lives in all its chaotic yet consistent glory. It tries not to be a game that was created, but a world that exists. I was lost in it for a week.
2642) The last of us 2 is just for intellectuals.,The final is not bad, obviously after so many years, the main thing is not killing nor Joel.,it's about people, the way world is different, how death is common and normal.,You have to stop saying it was a bad ending, it wa real and nothing to be mad for.,THE END.
2643) Best game ever don't listen to anyone they want peace. And in the last of us, there is no peace!! Stupendous story. The way people are thinking about this is a way a judge will judge a criminal. They think about tiny details to exaggerate their perspective. People saw Joel, who by the way is my favourite character, die and as if they never saw a character die before. It is a great story that is tragic. That's it. But it looks like people can't handle tragic stories anymore. Abby's section of the game was so fun  It made me empathise with her that I couldn't press square in the final fight. people have never gave the game any chance after Joel's death. Reassess the game. People expected Tom and Jerry's story. Just a simple revenge sorry.. naughty Dog made a complex story that people couldn't handle. And if you keep thinking about Joel then the game's story had a great impact on you.
2644) I never voted a single game, I do not like using numbers to judge things and I think Metacritic "User Score" is ridiculous but for this game, and most of all, for that situation I will do an exception. Last of Us 2 is a masterpiece, a real sequel of another masterpiece. All the critics you moved are ridiculous and childish, none of them exists. I hope will be more games like that and that someone will close this stupid section.
2645) fantastic game. A story that does not go as you want but as it should go in such a dark world
2646) Great game. Never think Neil Druckmann will be able to repeat high level of Last of us One. But he did it. Sadly, it lacks of well-developed characters from Last of us 1, but it is compensated by much much more deep story. 10/10.
2647) Still Good but a bit sad . The story it vary complex but still good even after Joel Death. That's the bad Point but still a 10 game
2648) Anyone who claims that the game is full of "lazy writing" or that the game "ruins the original and it's characters" really knows **** all about writing and story telling. It's almost like they weren't paying attention in the first game. I replayed the first game right before part II came out, just to make sure I wouldn't be blinded by nostalgia.,The first game was all about subverting expectations ( subverting the generic save the world from the apocalypse plot) and part II follows suit and really pushes the medium forward even more than the first one. The first game was just as depressing as the second. The first game had just as much violence as the first game. The first game portrayed the enemy factions as grey and sometimes even sympathetic as well. And part II has just as many endearing moments and lovable characters as the first.,,Even if the story was trash (it really isn't) the game would still not be a 0/10. Only unplayable glitchy messes, which can't get past their opening menu are a 0/10. The gameplay is some of the best stealth I've ever played, the game looks drop dead gorgeous, the soundtrack is amazing and the game runs very smoothly.,,Solid 10/10 for me. Don't let the 0/10 reviews scare you off from playing the game.
2649) Ignore the hate. This game is a masterpiece. A worthy sequel to part one both in story and gameplay.
2650) Really good game. Naughty Dog did a good job.,Even if some people might not like the decisions made with the characters, this game does not deserve all the hate. I had a really good time with this game.
2651) Tlou2 is a masterpiece of storytelling. The writers ask us to take a chance and a risk with some serious plot decisions. They ask us to take a chance on a side of the story we have no desire to play out. But their ability to create a story that challenges your emotions is amazingly well done. I'm glad they went the direction they did. Most bad reviews are based on players and their inability to relate to some character decisions and motivations, but that's what makes these characters special. I was always kept on my toes. The gameplay was pretty solid and the voice acting was top notch. Don't let negative reviews discredit the effectiveness of the writing.
2652) If you don't like the realistic hisaty on games , probably you dont like this game, but score with a 0 because there are LGTB characters its stupid. Like Joel said : I hope this things were different but no...
2653) Great Game. The Story. The graphics. naugthy dog made a Masterpiece. The music awesome
2654) Awesome!,An amazing game , with some narative twist and with beatiful landscape .
2655) It was such a good game! I love how they incorporated LGBTQ. One of the best games to date!
2656) Finished my walkthrough yesterday. I haven't read reviews before, haven't watched reviews, haven't watched trailers (except for the very first one). This is a masterpiece. The purest masterpiece. At the same time, User Score 5.4. What happened to the world?
2657) After playing through this – I dare say 'masterpiece' – it just confirms, for me, that a large portion of the 30.000 plus negative reviews are most likely from transphobic and homophobic fanboys. This game is ground braking, innovative in it's cast and the storytelling is at its finest, purest and rawest!,,Gameplay: 9,5/10 *Would have loved to see a lil' more zombie action at times*,Sound design: 10/10,Characters: 10/10 *The new cast is unapologetic diverse*,World design: 10/10 *It's pushing the ps4 pro to it's limits, and I love it*,Story 10/10 *The details, the finesse, the choices you make and the different perspectives make this a top notch game*,,Do not listen to all the bad reviews out there. They are trying to boycott this game, just because they dislike playing a strong female or trans character, even though they kick ass.
2658) Beats the first game on every level apart from pacing. A wonderful story that builds on and surpasses the first that needs to be played.
2659) It’s easy to see why this has become such a fan favorite along with all the high praise from the critics. TLOU2 is without a doubt one of the strongest PS4 title ever released. Brutal, honest, unforgiving and beautiful. I’m enjoying all the details along with the characters and storyline.,Bravo, ND.
2660) The best game in the history. It happens what hat to happens. Haters you're making a wrong mistake
2661) Its amazing and the history I think is good for me, the escenaries are very extender.
2662) Best game I've ever watched. It's a 9/10 for me, but I'll gladly provide that one extra point in order to compensate for all the misogyny and  homophobia that review bombed this masterpiece. Adios haters.
2663) I think a 9 out of 10 is the proper rating. However, considering the injustice it receives since release, I am willing to give it a 10.
2664) I wouldn’t rate this game a perfect 10/10.  It’d be closer to a 10 than a 9, however.  So, on the scale options given to me, it gets a 10.  The only thing I didn’t like about it was how it made me feel. It is a very difficult game to play because it is so powerful and depressing.  From Joel’s brutal death to the journey that follows, there are so many terrible decisions made by the main characters, so much pain, death, anger, and hatred that I found the game very difficult to play at times.  But what happened was the realization that no other game I’ve ever played had made me feel so many things and challenged my views/beliefs on so many topics.  I finished the game a week ago and have not stopped thinking about it since.  It’s that powerful.  Kudos to the Naughty Dog team for taking such a huge gamble with the 2nd installment of perhaps the most beloved game/IP of the past decade.  I didn’t like feeling all of those things (who enjoys feeling depressed?), and I play video games b/c they’re fun, but this game is still too good and too powerful to ignore.  I highly recommend it to anyone, but just be prepared for an emotional journey unlike any you’ve ever experienced.
2665) This game is heartbreaking! But I just love it! Don’t forget! cause-effect! I got platinum trophy already! ❤️ Incredible Game!
2666) f I ever were to lose you, I would surely lose myself.,And she did.,,The Last of Us Part II is a heart breaking, emotional roller coaster of a story that pulls on your heartstrings at every available opportunity. The game play is an improvement in every way over the first and is some of the smoothest you’ll find out there. The hide and seek combat system is some of the most fun I’ve ever had and the in most cases the fights take place in such large areas there are many ways to take on each encounter. The crafting system lets you improve the guns in your inventory at workbenches scattered around the maps and make useful tools, such as health kits and molotov cocktails, on the fly. The kills can be incredibly gory, and it seems to venture a little too far into murder porn at times. However, I believe it’s done intentionally. The gruesome deaths, shotgun blasts eviscerating opponents, the horrifying screams as WLF soldier burns to death, the way dismemberment happens when someone triggers a mine, the cries that echo through the battlefields as enemies find the bodies of their dead companions, all add to the weight of the action of killing. It’s heavy and weighs on the characters and the player, I had to put the controller down a few times after some of the cutscene deaths and a few of the more graphic close-up fights. But you’re killing people, and the game wants you to know that.,,All that said, the game is beautiful. Seattle is full of new life in this post-apocalyptic world. Lush plant life and rivers cut through the city and it’s quite easy to get lost in the scenery. Sunlight is used to great effect as you explore derelict buildings, boats and the landmarks of Seattle. Rain, snow and thunderstorms are used beautifully to heighten tension and paint gorgeous backdrops and environments in and out of the city. Luckily, there is a photo mode, and one of the better ones out there, to help capture the scenes you want to save. The animators did a fantastic job with each and every character and the game has some of the best voice work in video games to date. I’m actually very upset Ashley Johnson can’t get nominated for an Oscar for her portrayal of Ellie.,,Now onto the story, this oh so controversial thing that has fans, wrongly, in an uproar. But why? Most don’t even know what they’re mad about because they haven’t bothered playing it. So how is the story really? Simply put, it’s a masterpiece. It’s as engaging as it’s studio predecessor, Uncharted 4, and holds up against the likes of God of War, Red Dead Redemption 2 and Horizon: Zero Dawn. The game is lengthy and weighty and takes a lot of time setting the stage and exploring the characters. The story is one of revenge and what happens when the people who matter most to us get violently ripped away. It uses a dual narrative to draw comparisons as you play as both Ellie on her revenge quest and Abby, Joel’s killer. Ellie’s mission for revenge tugs on your heart strings as she refuses to listen to reason and throws herself and her friends into constant danger trying to take out the person who took what mattered most to her. Then, very suddenly, you are transitioned to Abby’s perspective and story as the clock is moved back and you experience Seattle over the same 3 days you did with Ellie on her hunt. Abby is a hardened killer whose story takes her on journey to regain some of the humanity lost to her as she protects two innocent children caught in a war between the WLF, Washington Liberation Front, or Wolves, a para-military group that took over Seattle and the Scars, or Seraphites as they call themselves, a group of religious fanatics who follow the teachings of The Prophet. A woman who saved many people in the early days of the apocalypse and was killed by the WLF. Abby is not an easy character to like, in fact one of her companions even points out over and over how bad a person she really is. But you aren’t given her perspective to force you to like her. It’s important to the whole story. How revenge is cycle. How killing people even for noble or righteous reasons only leads to more suffering. Connecting the dots between the two stories as you play is thrilling and fun and definitely warrants a second playthrough just to see all the pieces you might have missed. A character encountered as Ellie gets further explored and given life from Abby’s perspective. The game makes you think through each character’s decisions as you realize the full scope actions have, actions you won’t always agree with but because of how well the characters are set up you always eventually understand. The game overall, like the first, is about relationships and the lengths we go to for the ones we love. Not only is it the perfect follow up to the first game but it holds the spirit and ideals explored in the first very close while expanding on and adding too them.
2667) Worthy sequel from all aspects. Naughty dog delivers again even with some minor story issues, this game is a masterpiece
2668) Just because Joel died doesn't means that the game is bad. please be more mature to deal with this problem, give respect to the developer please, don't make them disappointed. Thanks :)
2669) A fantastic evolution from the first game! Superb work. Can't wait for a Part 3!!!
2670) MASTERPIECE. The most challenging game I have ever played. Incredible dynamic characters matched with immersive gameplay. Naughty Dog keep pushing the bar out of reach. Don’t listen to bigotry, play the game and may your survival be long!
2671) It’s not the Last of Us 1, and that’s a good thing. Part 2 is its own beast but it stays true to the spirit of the first game. It’s challenging, complex, and at times frustrating and uncomfortable, but if you allow it to, it has the potential to evoke feelings no other game has elicited from me before. The gameplay is great, the environment and graphics are gorgeous, the performances from these actors are amazing. I really loved this game so much
2672) Forget about the haters, play it by yourself. This game definitely is a master piece, mixing and massing you emotionaly since the beginning till the end.
2673) Its a masterpiece on all the aspects! the story is told in an exemplary way, and the gameplay never gets boring! the choices made on a narrative level have all a very specific purpose!! Good Job Naughty Dog!!
2674) The best game I've ever played! Just beautiful there is no way a game will ever be better than The Last of Us Part II.
2675) Amazing scenario, amazing gameplay, amazing graphics. Overall, it is the best game on Ps4. 30 hours of real masterpiece.
2676) I can’t believe the hate this game has gotten. Sure, images of the game leaked, and major story points were revealed. But, there is soooo much in this game that was not spoiled. So much of the emotion and complexity of the story can not be seen unless you play the whole thing. The characters are so complex, so deep, that I have played it twice and am still finding new ways to connect with them. The gameplay is amazing, similar to the first but with improvements in every aspect. The game is so smooth with the animations and everything feels natural. Naughty Dog should be extremely proud of what they have done here. They have taken the story of the first game and truly made a worthy second part. I love this game. I rarely say games are perfect. But this game truly is. 10/10
2677) Amazing game. Best ever... I want the last of us part 3 or any dlc story from tlou.
2678) Excellent game, with a raw but very good story, has some writing flaws but at the end of the day I'm glad to have played it
2679) Best Game of the whole Consolgeneration. Please more of this type of story-telling-games.
2680) Best game ever,Best graphics Best gameplay Best Storyline,Every single detail is pure gold.
2681) Yeah the story takes some unexpected turns but still, this is a gorgeous game full of detail and entertaining combat. The set pieces are breathtaking and sound design is one of the best I've ever experienced.
2682) SPOILERS:,Give it a 9/10 cuz it has it's flaws.,,Gonna hurt a lot of feelings here, but people whine for the dumbest of reasons. The death's are all fine and justified, sure you loved the guy, but its fine. Flashbacks bring an emphasis on his fatherly figure, made me tear up seeing as he saved my ass once again in that ONE flashback.,Lot of movies/series do such sudden deaths, its more realistic. No need for talks or cinematic 'deaths', you just pow the guy, it happened to Joel and to pretty much every character in this game, loved the approach.,The guy spitting on him is not Druckmann for those who keep insinuating that and blabla there are many misconceptions that keep getting pushed. Its a spanish model for one.,So much to say i dont have time to write it, moving on.,,2nd arc with Abby is more so you can see that she has a soul as well, try to empathize but the game does make a job of poiting out she is a **** they don't really want you to like her, just understand her.,When people hate something, they nitpick, i see it all the time, bad story, revenge plot, blabla. Please, so many games did the same or worse and got praised for it.,Now that you hate it cuz of whatever reason (if some of u even have one, except what u heard from others) you just nitpick. I can do that easy, i do it when i really hate something :). But ik how not to be biased and subjective.,,The ending fight is literally MGS4 REMAKE of Old Snake vs Liquid and that was praised as a masterpiece. While here 'its such a **** fight, ugh, acording to some of you'. The public has probably changed with time, but i'm gonna go ahead and say it. Most of the haters are teens, MOST, not all ofc. Since if you circulate online on different forums and sites, most of these are filled with SJW hate and whatnot that most people don't even care about. But the teens of today are filled with this hate.... with a lack of other words, it is 'propaganda'.,Anyway.,I do hate some of the SJW stuff as well, i have nothing against SJW in particular i just don't like that everyone is trying to put it in your face in every game and movie nowadays.,Like for real, if the PC culture and SJW isn't in a game nowadays its a crime and that annoys me a little.,The is the sole reason and maybe a few plot holes that i give it a 9 out of 10.,But i give it a 10 on here cuz of bombing.
2683) I understand people’s reaction but it’s a very good, great graphics, awesome game mechanics and a very risky bold story that really if you look at the whole story, it’s actually freaking amazing.
2684) Easily the best game I’ve ever played.  I went in hating Abby and finished the game with her as my favorite character.  Every turn hit hard.  Every person made an impact.  Every moment, every building searched, every single second made an impact on me.,Only negative?  I was craving more when it finished.  Started a different game after finishing this one and couldn’t play it because I couldn’t get this game out of my mind.
2685) So good it's has an amazing story with marvelous gameplay and beautiful graphics.
2686) Absolutely great game. Better than part 1.Everyone with a PS4 should play it.
2687) You need to be a little more mature to play this game. If you are a teenager, sorry, this game is not for you, but there are exceptions.,The game is wonderful, amazing story, but it could be a little better, playing with Abby is fun, because you can kill her in different ways hahaha, but it is also a bit dragged, your story would like to have seen more Joel and Ellie again.,AND BEAR IN MIND THAT NO ONE IN AN APOCALYPSE IS HERO.
2688) The history is perfect?,No,Is there anything perfect in this world? No,So stop crying and admit that the game is good, and if you don't like is because YOU don't like, that it's just your opinion.
2689) I honestly went into this game not expecting much, partly because I thought TLOU didn't need a sequel and because it lacked the MP component which I loved. I had also seem some of the leaks before I got to play and while I didn't get the whole game spoiled I had enough revealed that I didn't like what I had read.,,However, after playing the game myself I can definitely say that this game was amazing. Not as good as the first, story wise, but only marginally behind it. It's a story that once played has impact. Abby ended up not being a character that I completely hated by the end of the game either, contrary to how I felt at the beginning. Gameplay wise it takes the best parts of the first and improves them greatly. Adding more mechanics, weapons, and tools to play with.  The technical aspects (graphics and animation) were top notch of course as is often the case with Naughty Dog's games.,,This was a game that I definitely needed to play myself to actually get the experience that was needed to from it. While it definitely doesn't stand ahead of the first, it can stand right along side it as a fantastic game that should be played if the opportunity arises.
2690) Sensational emotional roller-coaster of a game. I'm still thinking about it. Amazing writing, game play, graphics, everything!
2691) Absolutely incredible!! So much time and effort had been put into this sequel. They story is so good.
2692) Hands down one of the (if not THE) best games I've ever played. The gameplay and level design have greatly improved from the first game, the graphics are phenomenal and every detail is crafted with great care. But the story is where this game exceeds every expectation from my side: you will not want to do many of the things you do, but the game forces you, where every push of a button feels like a punch in your face. There is just too much to say about this game, so I can just urge everyone to experience it (and for the love of something, DO NOT listen to all homophobic idiots ranting as they have not even played they game. And if they have, and still feel offended, well then I have to say I don't envy their miserable lives). Do yourselves a favour and play this game!
2693) Such a beautiful game i was si up to this and i was amazed how good it was Well done
2694) Children criticized the game with comments in the spirit of: "The grass here is unrealistic and I didn't like the plot." This game has a very multi-faceted and adult plot. Just because you don't understand it doesn't mean it's bad.
2695) From the moment I started playing, all the way to the end, I wanted to know what happened next, and by the end of it I was so sad. Usually I end up playing and completing games and then thinking about the next thing to move on to, but as the story wrapped up, I only wanted to know more, for the story to keep going. This game will be the most unforgettable for me this year.
2696) Best game ever,thx Naughty dog.when play this game to the end,I like abby the most.
2697) Best game ever, better game than part , ignore the haters' worlds, you will find real heart touch in this game!
2698) Maybe, the only flaw this game has is that at some point it feels a bit streched, but i didn't care at all because the combat section is great, the crafting is improved and i was busy taking all collectibles anyway, so yes a bit streched but i'll live with that.,,And it's not a "bad" ending, it's just an ending that you dind't like.,I'm wondering in which way you'd expect Joel to die, just in a simple combat or by accident, impaled like in the first game? ND decided to do it in grand style, that certainly will be remembered in the industry.,,Overall the game is a step forward in ALL aspects from the first game
2699) 1-Unpopular opinion; Abby is the best 2-Ellie wasn’t how I expected,3-Joel’s death was a shock but an acceptable one,=Overall the game is a hard 10, looking forward to DLC & part III,=with a little bit less of gay & sexual acts
2700) So far, this is the best game ive ever had the lucky to play, it made me happy, sad, mad, it had everything, action, adventure, a history wich is pure art. I really hope to see more the last of us games in the future, its such a big world, and the writters are incredible, at last, i only want to say thank you, thank you naughtydog, thanks for all the feelings i had while playing this game.
2701) Best game ever.,Story, characters, everything!,I really recommend!!!,This game will make homofobics really angry!
2702) One hell of a ride! I should not need to tell more than this is i prolly the best game I ever played.
2703) I could go on a long diatribe about this game. Truly I could go on-and-on about the the incredible gameplay, the expert storytelling, or the immaculate worldbuilding, but at the end of it all, it would mean just the same as this short summary: I was genuinely moved. This game affected my emotions in a way that games rarely do. It wasn’t always fun or easy, but it had me gripped the entire way.
2704) Finished the game a few minutes ago. Wow... I like to take games nice and slow so I can soak up all the details and what’s going on in the story, so that’s why it took me so long since I pre-ordered it. First off, I understand why this game is getting so much hate. I really get it. I think the hate is wrong and misplaced, but I get it. Except for me, all the things that everyone hates so much, I actually don’t mind. These things were necessary for the story. Especially when you have to do that thing halfway through the game for over 10 hours, I didn’t mind it and I thought it added a lot of humanity to the game and the characters. Towards the end, I hated both sides and didn’t want anyone to win because I thought everyone was wrong. And then in the final 3-4 hours, I loved both sides and was happy with the way it ended. The story of Joel and Ellie (and others) is a beautiful one and all in all, it’s a 10/10 for me. It’s not nearly as good as the first game, but it’s a 10/10 in its own way. Good job Naughty Dog. Proud of your team for going a direction not many people go. It’s a masterpiece whether people will admit or not. I think the reason people hate the game is because they wanted to play a game that they wanted. But you don’t get what you want. You support the developers and play their game. You’re not in charge of how a game comes out. So be the consumer and stop hating. If you’re hesitant to buy this game, I’d recommend it, but only if you go in with an open mind and ready to process all that’s thrown at you. It’s an emotional and intense game that has more twists than anyone could have guessed even outside the leaks. Play it. Just go for it.
2705) Breathtaking. I didn’t know a video game could be like this. I assumed that the 1st one would be better before playing, but man... what a ride. I almost gave it a 9 because starting generators in-game was still pretty gimmicky (and funny), but with a story like this I couldn’t rate it any less than a 10/10. The story is flat-out brutal and amazing. Moreover, the queer representation is something I didn’t know I needed so badly. Thanks, and congratulations, to Naughty Dog on this monumental achievement.
2706) Incredible game! Congratulatios naugthy dog 4 ur amazing master pierce and thank u all!
2707) Great visuals and awesome music/ sounds.,The game play is fluent and even tho very similar to the first part a little bit refined. If its working don't try to fix it right?,Characters are well written and I was able to get into their mindset of every character. Some took longer tho.,Story overall was great. Some people complain about "some events" but I think these are necessary for the whole story plot. The order of events (flashbacks etc.)  gets criticized too but I think it would ruin the whole story if you would put them earlier.,,Kinda generalized review but I wanted to keep this review spoiler free.
2708) Idk Why so many of u hate this sequel. Yeah as many said it is destroying characters from the First game but overall i really like this game
2709) Pretty amazing gameplay and graphics, still there are some bugs and the game message might not be understood by anyone, but ir can get its message it will be for sure an incredible experience.
2710) Amazing game! Nowadays it's rare to see games exploring topics like revenge, change, and redemption with such depth. The story is very interesting and immersive. Sad but realistic, showing us life is neither black nor white.That it's all a shade of gray. I found myself caring about a lot of the characters' fates. Visuals are awesome, gameplay, and music as well. A definite 10!
2711) Best in class Graphics and animation. Level of detail and care amazing.,Best in class voice acting.,Sound design great and Soundtrack excellent but almost used too sparingly.,A Challenging, emotional and difficult to digest story that stays with you after the credits role.,Gameplay improved upon the first game. Dodge mechanic welcome addition. Skill trees do lack impact and hopefully completely redone for TLOU3.
2712) i think its one of the best game,And I really liked this story,Only maybe the expectations from the game was so high that the people's scores low
2713) Unique experience unlike any movie, book, or video game before it. The criticism is mostly hollow and offers no real insight on anything in the game, other than “I wanted something different to happen in the story”. Gameplay, graphics, voice acting, all 10/10
2714) I loved this game. The story was challenging, and all the hate the game is getting I believe is unwarranted, however I get if people don't like the story. Hating on the devs or actors for the story is just dumb. The story causes you to feel one way, but then works to give you a reason to reevaluate those feelings, which I think is utterly genius
2715) Masterpiece :),Don't listen to the haters and trolls :),Wonderful story, gameplay, characters, just perfect :)
2716) 10/10 would get emotionally destroyed again,,Seriously, this is the best game I've ever played. All reviews made one June 19th or 20th should be deleted. It's so sad the internet has turned into a cesspool of hate in the past few years.
2717) This game is unique and special, thanks naughty dog for this masterpiece! be respectful guys!
2718) So as a casual gamer I have only just completed the game probably later than most.,I honestly cannot see how it can have been given bad reviews. The game play is greatly improved on. The story is stellar and that ending I was on the edge of my seat!!
2719) Story telling could be better, but still very good. Gameplay and characters are great
2720) I don't think I ever experienced such a rollercoaster of emotions. This game is painful and sad, and it's brilliant.
2721) Last of Us Part II is a 10/10 masterpiece, an achievement in gaming that better sweep awards. Trolls that attacked this game online can't take away its accomplishment. Oh and for the record I'm Team Abby, and it's not even close. Thank you Naughty Dog, you've come a long way since Uncharted.
2722) masterpiece, plain and simple. naughty dog has balls of steel to put out something like this.
2723) This game is a masterpiece, it brought teachings to life.  For every situation in the game, there was a motivation.  Revenge was the main one, but in the end it only took the loss on all sides.  The teaching: No revenge is worth so much.
2724) It's awesome how all the team of Naughty create this fabulous game... I think Joel's dead is a part that we needed but we don't want... Is so real how the different deads in the game are simple... Because that is the real Life, we don't die with a drama... I don't know i just... Really Love this Game.,In My top 3 favorite games, including TLOU1 This is My personal opinion, i know everyone have a different
2725) This Game is a Masterpiece. Everthing was perfectly Fine : - Gameplay,- Story,- Graphic - Character ——> BEST GAME EVER
2726) The best story,the best art ,the best play style. The game is a masterpiece!! Love it .great job to bring us this amazing game !
2727) I have finished TLOUS2 the experience is like a roller coaster and I can say that I don't agree a lot of things but I cannot deny that it has been the best story, If you want to live the game you should feel how is this world is like and this is a cruel world.,,Now the gameplay, sound, and environment it is terrific!! A lot of people talk about history, It is adult history.
2728) The game is great. You might not like the story because it is a sad story. If you want to play a game with a happy story, I recommend SpongeBob SquarePants: Battle for Bikini Bottom – Rehydrated. Although its gameplay is not nearly as polished or fun, you don't need to worry about feeling sad at any point. However, if you can handle negative emotions like an adult and you want a masterwork post-apocalyptic survival game, then I highly recommend The Last of Us part 2
2729) This game is absolutely amazing. Several weeks after finishing, and it's still all I can think about. The world, mechanics, and gameplay are all obviously amazing. More importantly, the story is incredible. This game makes you, the player, constantly uncomfortable and emotionally torn throughout the game. There is constant cognitive dissonance. It shows the dark side of your heroes, and the good side of your villains. The reviews are polarized because people are so used to good and bad being black and white, and because the fandom has put characters on pedestals when they never deserved that. Every character in both the first game and this game, and I mean EVERY character, is morally flawed. That's part of what makes those characters so amazing, and the world so believable. There are no heroes, and there are no villains, just people surviving and clinging to the people they love.
2730) On my second play through on survivor+ and TLOU2 continues to shine. This game takes narrative risks but ultimately adds new layers to the story unveiled during The Last of Us. Naughty Dog has delivered masterfully with its latest achievement. Salutations all round to cast and crew.
2731) Beautiful graphics, Fantastic narrative.... man what else to say... My favourite game of all time
2732) Great game! The only thing that confused me was a lie in the trailer (about Joel. But story and personalities the best! I’ve been through a lot of emotions. A lot of thanks to creators! I love it!I think TLOU is next level for video games.
2733) Masterpiece. Made me feel things no game or movie has ever made me feel before
2734) No game has ever left me thinking as much as this one, seriously. This game really made me feel, made me angry, made me sad, happy? Nope. It may not be the best ending or story for what everyone expected, but it was a **** adventure to play it. Honestly the best game I’ve ever played. 10/10
2735) Absolutely loved the first. This one does not disappoint. Just play it and enjoy the ride!
2736) Although many expected a different story, The Last of Us Part II delivers in every single aspect. Naughty Dog took a very bold decision, and executed it almost flawlessly. The actual gameplay itself will reel you in, but the story and the character development is what gets you hooked. Hats off to Naughty Dog, you've made another masterpiece and I can't wait to see what the future holds.
2737) It's simple: People just haven't played the whole game. Even though being different from what we expected and being difficult to accept NG's decisions, in the end not only convinces the player, but also proofs that this game is one of the best games ever made
2738) One of the best experiences that i have in my life!,The last of us part 2 is must be necessary for all humanity lesson of empathy.
2739) I NEVER leave reviews. I enjoy reading them but never felt conflicted enough to spend the time I have to actually leave one. Until now. I read so much hate on this game. Hours of reviews, of videos, even of conversations with friends. But all of it is complete malarkey. This is a beautifully designed and written game. I am blown away at the pettiness people have towards such minuscule things that actually make the game so great! I understand that people have developed feelings towards certain characters based off the first(also amazing) game. And what happened in this game definitely shook me to my core. But when has a game done that for you?! When did a game challenge you and your complete way of thinking towards a situation? We are so focused on our own issues, our own thoughts that we can’t even see what is going on from another point of view. But this game does that. This game is firing on so many levels and showing people there is a story to both sides and literally puts you in their shoes. Also being completely diverse with its characters is just incredible. Even in an apocalyptic world people are going to be who they are. And raging mushroom headed monsters or scars or rattlers or anyone for that matter is going to change that. I wanted to write a review because I believe this game is so much more than just a game. I wanted to give it the justice it deserved. I am sorry that people are having issues with characters or story line or whatever it is but I just think their perception is slightly blinded by the hurt they may have felt. I did have some pretty high expectations but this game blew right past them. I am so sad it is over but so glad I got to go through it. So anyways, I hope whoever is reading this, whether they have or have not played the game, just keep an opened mind. We all got to be apart of an amazing journey and that is that part we cannot forget. Thank you for you time.
2740) The game is technically impressive and delivers a solid and heavy story, giving depth to the consequences related to the first game. It suffers a bit from pacing in some parts, but its achievemments are still worthy.
2741) People are just mad it didn’t have the Disney ending that they wanted. Both sides of the story were justified.
2742) Game is amazing, stood up tp my expectations 100% of the time, only complaint is the Abby part of the game is way too long, other than that, the game is fantastic, 10/10 masterpiece for this franchise
2743) Nothing short of amazing.,Naughty Dog and sony have crafted a masterful interactive experience that takes you on one of the wildest rides in storytelling history. You cannot but love how they wove the story around the events of TLOU1 into a completely different story in Part 2. They took the choices we all had to make in Part 1 and made them consequences we had to deal with and they showed how that cycle of violence can be an unending grueling experience with no satisfaction unless one fights one's own internal demons. This game admittedly set the bar really high expectations wise, I understand why people are angry, they had expectations that they had created that were not met, but this game is best played with an open mind to enjoy the wonderful cinematic experience that it is.
2744) When I first heard of the controversy surrounding this game I was surprised. I was told that the game was pandering to the LGBTQ+ community in a way that was so unnecessary that it seemed patronising. I can can tell that the level of LGBTQ+ representation is this: there are gay/trans characters in this game. It doesn't derail the story in anyway. These characters simply exist. And they're great.,When I sat down to play the game I was instantly hooked. It's a thrilling, emotional and devastating revenge story that barely let's you catch your breath. The writers do an incredible job at showing the futility and destructiveness of revenge as well as the grey morality of the characters. The switching perspectives between protagonists will make you realize no character is completely good or evil, they all have their own motivations and their own stories. You'll begin to feel like every NPC you kill has lived a life just as rich and full as Ellie and Joel have. Which adds significant weight to every encounter. It's a difficult thing to come to terms with as a gamer, as you are so used to feeling certain throughout the game that what you are doing is right. You will not feel like that playing this game.,Yes this game is heartbreaking. Yes it's not what many players wanted to become of these beloved characters. But it's an example of some of the most gripping storytelling in gaming I've experienced (I haven't been as hooked to a story since Red Dead Redemption 2) and it left me staring blankly at my TV for the entire duration of the end credits. Feeling a thousand emotions at once. Gamers are emotional. So I completely understand some people's anger at the story. But the story is fantastic nevertheless. Please ignore the controversy and negativity surrounding it and play this game. It's incredible.
2745) Astonishingly beautiful, and gut-wrenchingly morally complex, with awesome game mechanics, this is the most impressive game I’ve ever played, finally knocking Shadow of the Colossus off its perch. Some lagging and slowness in the second act is forgiveable, given its importance to the plot, and actually helps to affirm the grind between savage beauty, boredom, and terrifying moments of panicked violence that characterise this post-apocalyptic vision of America. I’m going to be thinking about this for a long time to come.
2746) The most emotional, the most well-write, the most visceral game I've ever played. TLOU was the best PS3 game. And now we have the best PS4 game.
2747) It is a perfect game for me. I don't think anyone will not appreciate the graphics, the gameplay, the detailing, the puzzles and the side stories known by reading the letters. The main issue people have is with the story.,But for me, it is the best part, at first when we were given to control Abby. But this is the beauty that you've to journey along with the person you hate and see her emotions, see her getting peace because hate is not the solution (which she thought she will get after killing Joel. The peace she achieved and the peace Ellie achieved in the end were similar. For me, it was a beautiful story.
2748) I thought this game was a master piece and just as good as the first one. I love how it plays with morality and as it set me out on a quest for revenge I wanted whole hearted to take down Abby and avenge Joel.,However once I steped in Abbys shoes I was not only blow away by the fact that they are a mirror of each other but also the fact that Naughty Dog made me side more with a character that was just introduced as the villa, over the main protagonist of the previous 2 games.,Abby as a character is strong both physically and morally but she is also very much so human, she has fears, impulses and failures but they all add up to make what I would consider a perfect character.,Loved the game loved the characters and loved the whole broken people in a broken would theme. 10/10
2749) An absolute masterpiece a revolution in game storytelling you wont see this kinda bold and courageous and also great at the same time story telling in video games
2750) At some of the best views between the use of shadows light and sound effects, TLOU 2 has a good change
2751) This has been one of the best video game experience I got in the past 30 years.,It's raw, it's upsetting, it's sad.,There's anger and confusion, every topic is spot on. The level design is supporting the whole plot and makes it even more intense.,Naughty Dog did an amazing job and I'm glad it took this long to come out. Product is finished and close to perfect.
2752) Gameplay has updated and is amazing.  Story is deep and complicated.  Very bold choice and luckily I was barely spoiled.  Game is a bit long in areas but I see where they were going.  Has given me the most thought provoking game in awhile.
2753) Game is 10/10 to be honest. They showed a lot of cruelty and overall that revenge is bad option for both sides. Every person losing something important cause of that. Really hard story to understand but if you feel it so deeply and if you are focus enough you're able to face this amazing masterpiece in a good way.
2754) Truly happy to see eventually somebody’s brave enough to tell a story like this. The game’s an absolute perfection in any aspect of its creation & the narrative which has become very divisive now, is challenging as it was intended to be. Loved it!
2755) Its just masterpiece! The narative and gameplay are being very huge  progress in these 7 years,And for me its just game of generation
2756) Great game! Playing it again now! Good amount of representation and the story is all about perspective
2757) Its a masterpiece and a lot of you dont understand the potential of this game and mostly the ending i feel bad for you guys im sorry and to those who get it more ppl like us!
2758) I loved this game so much. I think I might like it even more than part 1. Don't listen to the haters it is an amazing game.
2759) Best Game ever, one of the best games on Ps4 i buy it again and again, awesome game!!!!!
2760) Story - Best I've seen in a game. I was run through the emotional gambit. From being filled with rage, resentment, sorrow, indifference, happiness and regret. Solid story telling. Some say it jumps around a bit, but the flashbacks add a needed human element at the time and I think it's done well,,Gameplay - far superior to the first installment and very smooth.,,Overall just an exceptional game. It plays out like a movie that I can control and I love it. No game has hit me in the feels like this one. I'm on my 3rd playthrough now and I'm still catching things that I missed the first 2 times. I'll most likely be playing it a 4th time after this.,,Thaniks Naughty Dog
2761) The haters miss the point. This is not a traditional hero's journey. Just because a player feels sad, confused, and conflicted about the story, doesn't make this a 0/10 game. It's a masterpiece. The story is challenging and emotionally complex. Players who can't handle not being spoonfed a happy ending aren't up to appreciating or understanding the game. And as for the "SJW game" critique, if it's too much for a player to imagine that a gay person and a trans person might exist in the same story, then that person is... well. To put it diplomatically, on the wrong side of history.
2762) perfect game，I like it! why so many person hate it.,I wish can play 《the last of us part 3》
2763) The last of us 2 is a masterpiece that has been affected by irrational opinions, but the truth is that this game perfectly combines all aspects of a wonderful game both narratively and playable or graphically the truth is that this is a wonderful game and you should play it now!
2764) I find it very unfair the exaggeratedly negative reception that the game is having by a part of the players so that's why I write this brief opinion, for me, possibly the best game of the generation, it has everything, a great story with everything That implies, I mean, beautiful cinematics, super charismatic characters, good dialogue, a memorable soundtrack, and a very satisfying, intuitive gameplay with animated characters so advanced that it seems next-gen, even more amazing than Red Dead Redemption. 2. The freedom of exploration and the beauty of the surroundings makes it a very pleasant experience to travel, although it also has terrifying scenarios that combined with an amazing sound design you will feel so immersed that you forget that it is a video game. I really feel like this is a gift to everyone who enjoys this hobby. I want to say thanks to Neil Druckmann and Halley Gross, Kurt Margenau, Anthony Newman and the entire team, extraordinary work and I can't wait to see the next project!
2765) I would like to thank all the haters because they helped me to appreciate this game even more because of low expectations. I was really surprised how really good this game is, everything from graphics, gameplay and story appeared to be perfect. The amount of detail and care they put in every aspect is insane. The story was brutal, but in a satisfying way. I didn't experience such an emotional rollercoaster in a game for a long time. I think it would be extremely dumb to expect something lighter in a survival action that takes place in a post-apocalyptic world. The last minutes of the game made me feel my heartbeat in my ears... Also, the length of the game felt very refreshing, especially after 3-4 hours of Resident Evil 3 remake that left me frustrated. It's like going back to 90s and early 2000s, when a game took weeks to finish, and it felt like a journey. Kudos to Naughty Dog, they raise d the bar extremely high.
2766) A stunning, haunting, heart-warming, terrifying, beautiful, harrowing and unforgettable experience like no other. Naughty Dog have once again raised the bar. The acting and animations are unmatched. An emotional roller-coaster of a game.
2767) A cinematic and engrossing experience that elevates the medium of gaming. It's a daring and risky progression from the original game that masquerades as a simple revenge story on the surface, but at its heart is an exercise in empathy and forgiveness that asks for more of the player than possibly any other game I know. The gameplay, environments, character development, UI and replayability are all top tier. This landmark title will likely influence game developers and players for years to come.
2768) I am baffled as to how anyone can give this game a negative review. If thought the story was rubbish, you didn't understand it. And if you said the combat/game play was was dated -  did you even play the game?,People rushed on to Metacritic after hearing bad reviews to join in after there was outcry from what happened in the first 2 hours. Put your big boy pants on and play the whole game, then form your own opinion. If it's still negative, fair enough, but a lot of the bad reviews are from the day it came out, and it shows, because as the days go by the number of positive  reviews keep going up, from people who obviously did play the game the whole way through and were rewarded with an incredibly rich and emotional story. The early negative review bombers obviously didn't play the 30 hr game in the first few hours of it coming out.,,My thoughts on some major backlash points:,,Joel:,You knew that would happen to Joel sooner or later, it's the natural turn of events. His past was going to catch up with him, otherwise what was the point of having Joel save Ellie be very morally grey at the end of P1? There would be no point at all if he got away with it. The whole story from the first minute of P1 all the way through to the final moments of P2 flow wonderfully well. I'm sure Naughty Dog aren't finished either, and will come back with an equally impressive P3.,,Character continuity:,I've seen people say that they think the characters are too different from P1 (i.e. Joel 'trusting' Abby, Ellie changed), but what those people fail to realise is this: people do change. And this has been accelerated by the fact that they now have semblance of a relatively normal and happy life in Jackson.  It's been years since Ellie and Joel were travelling across the States, they're in a stable setting now. Of course they're going to change. Joel undoubtedly becomes more trusting of people since having Ellie to love as a daughter figure, and being surrounded by regular people who are not a threat,As for Ellie, her sudden coldness and change of character (to the player) is a result of the extreme emotional turmoil she faces from two angles: one is the aftermath of what happened at the hospital, and Joel's eventual telling of the truth. This is gradual, and we as the player don't see it immediately (it's more slowly built on as the root of the friction their relationship have been enduring, and even goes way back to the last frame of P1 when it's left ambiguous as to whether or not Ellie believes Joel). In the final flashback, we see Ellie willing to try and forgive Joel for it, but tragically, it never happens. That feeds into:,the second angle from which her change of character comes from. Joel's sudden you-know-what hits Ellie like a truck on fire filled with bricks. Their relationship was just beginning to be on the mend, and Ellie knew she had been a dick to Joel for a while, but she never really realises it until the night before. This is evident from the dance when Joel gets involved in the whole Seth being a bigot thing, and Ellie pushes him away for trying to protect her. She says some pretty hurtful stuff to Joel, and you can see her regret it immediately after, and that crushing regret resonates all throughout the game. It's heartbreaking, but this is what loss does to someone. Ellie becomes almost unrecognisable - while she was sort of naive from growing up in the QZ and not unnecessarily violent in P1, she is the complete opposite now. She tortures her enemies for information, she's unable to let her rage go and she kills others without batting an eye. This is so new for us, we last saw Ellie whipping out her joke book, making sweet conversation with Joel. It gut-wrenchingly tells us the sheer impact it had on her, and we also see it when even Ellie herself is shocked at her uncharacteristic behaviour after torturing a certain someone for information, and killing a pregnant woman in cold blood. There is profound regret there too, especially the latter, but she never feels that until its too late.,I'm honestly surprised people expect Ellie to be the same person she was when she was 14.,,Letting Abby go:,Ellie's redemption comes at the very end when she lets Abby go in an unbelievably poignant and profound moment of tender realisation, but then learns the ultimate lesson when she  returns to the farm to find that her family has left. Ellie was unable to choose her family over her guilt, regret and anger. I think that is really powerful.  I think what people fail to realise about the significance of letting Abby go, is that Ellie has not forgiven her in the slightest. And when Abby spared Ellie & Dina earlier, it wasn't out of forgiveness either. It was for the other people in their lives.  What started as a story of revenge changes - by the end neither of them get that, because by the time the credits roll it's morphed into something else entirely.,,I thought TLOU2 was, simply put, incredible and brave.
2769) Ignore the Hate, Play it for yourself, The story will play with your emotions. Game play and visuals are amazing. So in soundtrack. Another Masterpiece from Naughty Dog!
2770) Actually gets a 9.8 from me but it deserves a rounding up in my opinion. I’ve never played a game like this before, I’m unbelievably grateful that I went into it without many spoilers. This game is a masterpiece, not only for the story but also for the stunning visuals, mocap, facial animations and acting. We waited 7 years for an epic sequel, and they more than delivered. Part 2 is not for fans who want the same type of dark yet hopeful experience that the first game gave us. I found my experience was enhanced exponentially by allowing myself to emotionally “buy in” but that also requires signing up for a hell of a roller coaster. It has solid replayability in my opinion, I’m almost done with my second playthrough and it’s definitely a different trip. I can’t recommend this game enough to people looking for a unique experience. There’s an old quote that can be modified to do TLOU2 justice, “For those who’ve experienced it, no explanation is necessary. For those who haven’t, no explanation will suffice.” This one will stay with me for life, simple as that.
2771) The characters are fleshed out and believable, I feel like I actually know them. The world is also deep, dark, and unflinchingly brutal and intense which is how a post apocalyptic world should feel in my eyes. I loved the new characters and locations, all of which were built and written well. On the gameplay side the ai felt smart and trying to evade groups of people hunting you down was seriously fun and exhilarating. To people saying the story felt "utterly pointless" in the end, you didn't understand a single bit of what the game was trying to teach you (and for that matter what it was NOT trying to teach you, it is not a preachy game either). Give it a second play through, you won't regret it.
2772) Excellent game you just need to look a little inside you in order to understand.,Thank you naughtydog
2773) This game is a piece of art. What makes The Last Of Us franchise so incredible is their ability to take you and fully immerse you in their world. This bleak, hopeless, ruthless world. The Last Of Us Part 2 does that with a compelling story that would be Oscar worthy if it was a Hollywood movie. It's not a simple story, and it's definitely not a happy one. Naughty Dog set off to make me "feel" things; and so many things were felt. I have never in my life played a game that had that much impression.
2774) Not just the best game on PS4, but one of the best games ever. Expands on the original, and every Naughty Dog game before it, in every conceivable way.
2775) The game is a masterpiece I am lazy as **** but I just took the time to create an account on metacritic just to tell you how awesome it is story, gameplay, everything is a masterpiece.
2776) best game i’ve ever played. too good omg hated what was going on involving playing as abby at first but w the more time i played as her, the more the whole story as a perspective clicked for me. pacing really could be better though. but other than that. >>>>>>
2777) Barring some pacing issues, this game is innovative, bold, and makes some incredibly risky story decisions that pays off for me. Been thinking about it ever since I beat it. Bravo Naughty Dog and Neil Druckmann!
2778) Not the game I was expecting but in the best possible way. Expands and refines the last of us gameplay and plot along with some of the best graphics of this generation.,If you want more of the same from the first game, you won’t get it, and tonally it has a very different feel, but it is it’s equal in every respect.
2779) What a game! Loved both the previous game and this one, took a daring approach to its story telling and I loved it for that, gameplay, graphics, score and story all great as usual from Naughtydog, guessing all the hate is coming from the 12 year olds watching the gameplay from pewdiepie.
2780) An absolute masterpiece, with an engaging story and overall one of the best graphic designs yet to experience in a videogame.
2781) It's not perfect, but considering everything that this game gets right, I think it's fair to call it an absolute masterpiece. I beat the game on Moderate difficulty and then immediately played it again and beat it again, this time on Survivor+ (this game really ought to be played on Survivor, by the way).,,In terms of gameplay, everything good about The Last of Us 1 has been improved. Combat is more varied, more excited, more tense, and much more brutal. Even for a seasoned gamer like myself, this combat made me stop and say "Oh my God!" a few times. It's just so intense - in a good way! There are fewer ladders, more areas to explore, and many more options as to how you take on your enemies. Also, new infected!,,In terms of the story, it is of course hugely controversial. But I think it's tremendously well done. It's not as perfectly tight as the Last of Us 1 and there are a couple awkward jumps in timeline. But it's so ambitious and manages to make you think and feel things that few games before have ever even dared to try. For that alone, I think this game is deserving of special recognition. It has been a couple weeks since I beat the game for the second time and I'm still thinking about the characters, pondering their choices, wondering what they could or couldn't have done differently. This game really makes you care about the characters and their choices and makes you think about the costs of our actions in life. It's brilliant.,,Like I said, the game is not perfect - there are some bugs that can be really distracting, and there are some oversights in the plot. But, all in all, this is easily one of the best games I have ever played in over twenty years of gaming. It is a worthy successor to an all-time great game, and stands alone as a masterpiece in its own right.,,It's 'The Godfather Part 2' of video games.
2782) I really in love about it.,Thank you, ND, it is amazing! Don't listen haters, U'd made excellent game!
2783) Seriously recommend playing this game alone or with quiet observers. I mean it just take the games atmosphere and characters in even the grunt ai characters dialouge is good. This is hands down a beautiful game expressing moral dilema and the grey area of stories. I dont know why everyone is hating on this game ao much its amazing and a great sequal. The story is awesome and really drives home the point its trying to make. Highly recommend dont listen to the hate.
2784) First time ever reviewing a game. But felt like I should do my part to give this game the credit it deserves. Through breathtaking graphics and Naughty Dog’s painstaking attention to detail as well as excellent performances across the cast The Last Of Us receives a worthy sequel with a powerful message that leaves me thinking about it day after day. The game takes on the cycle of hate and the destruction left in it’s wake. “I don’t think I can ever forgive you for that. But I’d like to try”.
2785) I went in expecting the worst based off the spoilers and general negativity surrounding the game.,After finishing it, its clear that the negativity stems mostly from the anger of those that havent actually played the game. It is awesome. It hurts, its painful, its heartbreaking and its art.
2786) I never write reviews, even if it is a game that I thoroughly enjoyed. However, I feel extremely compelled to do so because of all the backlash and negative reviews this game has received from its users.,,You cannot walk into this game with a closed mindset, expecting it to be an exact copy of its predecessor, where you will play as Joel and Ellie, taking on the war torn and post-apocalyptic America. In-fact, what makes this game stand out is that it is so different from its predecessor and forces you to face the ethical problems that unraveled as a result of Joel's decisions in the end of the first game. Joel's decision to murder the lead surgeon developing a cure and many other Firefly soldiers leaves no hope for a cure, or resolution to the plot that carried much of the motives for the first game. How would other people expect the story to continue with Joel and Ellie again? pursuing the same objective once again? Going after a character for revenge together? There is no possibility for this, and it would just be a repeat of events from the first game. Naughty Dog instead chose to take the game in a different direction, killing one of the main characters right off the bat to fill you with anger and a thirst for revenge. You spend the first 10 hours of the game weaving through corrupt soldiers, killing those responsible for the actions of Joel's death until you finally unravel the reason behind it: Joel ruined all hope for a cure, and people are ANGRY.,,It is a tough pill to swallow. You have to look at the choices from a different perspective. One that is not just Joel and Ellie, which is what the entirety of the first game was built on. This shifts even harder when the game throws you into the shoes of Joel's murderer, Abby. However, the back story that is built on Abby only showcases her motives for murdering Joel, and why she was so desperate for revenge. You then start to see Joel's motives for what they truly are, and how they affected other people than just himself and Ellie. Abby's story then further dives into her own issues, dealing with her love with Owen and her strained relationship with Mel. She then becomes a bigger sister figure to Lev, who is struggling to find his true identity. Along the way, Abby discovered the WLF for who they truly are and how she has lost her way. However, through all this loss that Abby has endured, she is further damaged by Ellie's reckless actions fueled by a thirst for revenge over Joels death.,,Ellie can never truly forgive herself for not repairing her relationship with Joel sooner, and what really hurts her is that she understands the motives that resulted in his death. Thus, she seeks justice to try and heal that damage until she finds out that it is not going to fix her problems.,,I think it's somewhat justified that some users are very upset by this game. It is NOT a typical sequel to a video game, and I really believe that is why I like it so much. The Last of Us Part II truly forces the player to stomach their characters decisions and live through the game in an entirely different perspective. If I said the first game didn't leave a sour taste in my mouth at the end, I would be lying. This is a perfect sequel as it makes you consider if what Joel did was right, or wrong, and lets you live out the consequences of his actions. HOWEVER, I do NOT agree that the story is bad. The story is very progressive and evolves further and further as time goes on. It is important to remember, there are NO happy endings in a world so chaotic and lost. Joel and Ellie will not live happily ever after. Ellie won't kill Abby and then everything will be fine. It is not a giant circle singing kumbaya.,,Instead, it is dark and twisted and evolving around every corner. There is love. There is loss. And at the end it left me feeling complete. Like a proper ending to a series that is so close and dear to my heart. We truly get to see the outcome of Joel's decisions from the first game and how it has affected the world. I applaud Naughty Dog for crafting something so beautiful and something so RAW that really shakes players to their core. If this game did not move you at any part of its story, I encourage you to give it another try with an open mind. Really look at the characters for who they are and try to see their perspective.,,Great job Naughty Dog, you knocked this one out of the park. I will definitely be playing it again.
2787) This is a video game that is at the level of literary achievement. This is a video game that should be discussed in the same breath as the most critically analyzed books and films of the last 100 years, without hesitation. This is a video game that in every detail, every plot point, every moment, drips with the intention and love of its creators. This is a masterpiece in storytelling that is rivaled only by the first game.
2788) I went into this spoiler leak free and it was a roller-coaster of emotions. It was crazy. The graphics, combat and effects are so immersive. You really feel the tension. It is mind blowing!
2789) Amazing, epic experience. As far as a fork of entertainment goes, this must be one of the greatest things I have ever experienced. Worth the seven year wait! Well done to all involved. Hannah
2790) Perfect. One of the best games I've ever played. I strongly recommend it, it's a must.
2791) First, I thought I had been spoiled by a YouTube livestream comment that popped up before I could hide the chat, but that turned out to be false. If you think you’ve had this game spoiled but would have enjoyed it otherwise, there were a lot of fake spoilers out there so I’d suggest still playing.,As for a review, the most succinct thing I can say is that I did not have fun in this game, but I did think it was fantastic. Much like a movie like The Road or Schindler’s List, the story isn’t meant to be fun, it’s meant to tell a good tale.,I did not always trust the characters to do the right thing, I did not always like what the story was doing until I later experienced what it was they were driving toward, and I certainly came away thinking this was one of the top two games I’ve ever played. Mechanics, storytelling, and character building are all improved upon from their states in the original The Last of Us.,This game is an ugly, gritty, heart wrenching masterpiece.
2792) passed the game five minutes ago.  This game is incomparable, for the first time I see that the developers erase the line between the antagonist and protagonist.  About the gameplay and graphics, I will stutter 10/10 for the efforts of Naughty Dog.
2793) From an emotional perspective: rollercoaster ride.,From a "quality of game"perspective: Steady excellence.
2794) Fantastik i didnt play IT but i watched The whole longplay ît became The Best game for me
2795) Best story ever. I loved the first chapter. The second chapter is simply the best story ever for a videogame. Congratulations to Naughty Dog for this masterpiece
2796) This game is just awsome, gameplay its fun, you have the necesity to explore and check every corner, history its good, I like it a lot and im a great fan of first game, its a long game, lot of things to do and very replayable, sound its just amazing, performance its amazing, grafics are amazing, please dont trust the kids making bad reviews, this is a master piece game
2797) Thx naughty dog. The next masterpiece! You guys are doing so much for the gaming industry!
2798) Last Of Us Part II was awesome, I can't describe this experience. story was awesome everybody said "story isn't good" but I love it.
2799) Great game the music, graphics and gameplay are the best especially! The gameplay isn’t revolutionary, but flows so much more smoothly compared to the The Last of Us. I found myself actually engaging with hand to hand combat much more and the dodging is such a game changer. I would usually restart encounters in the first game but this time around I rarely if ever did. Just imagine when ever a game is revealed and how it always seem much more realistic and polished compared to the actual product. Well not this time around this is a game at its best! The story was amazing and I was left thinking about it for days and this is coming from someone who was spoiled yet there was so much that was taken out of contexts and twisted. Give the game a try couldn’t recommend it anymore!
2800) A great game. It’s harder to play emotionally than the first game, but for a reason. It makes you think about your actions more as a player. All the intimate details of violence make you question what you’re doing. You’re not Joel, as much as you try. And I think it’s clear that Joel wouldn’t want you to be like him. The first main plot point to happen is inevitable but heartbreaking all the same. And it just. keeps. going. +1 for Lev, the new Ellie. Because old Ellie is dead. Side note: A lot of the low user reviews for this game say things like ‘AllLivesMatter’ and make fun of social justice and lgbt people. No joke. That should tell you off the bat they’re not worth listening to.
2801) Best game I've ever played and I'm not sure anything will ever top it. Well done Naughty Dog, you have mastered the art of video game making! Great performances from everyone all round, especially Ashley Johnson. Wow. Game play, graphics, combat, mechanics and last but not least, story was gut wrenchingly amazing. Truly the peak of story-driven video games right here. Well worth my £50 and much, much more! It is unbelievable what Neil Druckmann and everyone at Naughty Dog has achieved.  Unbelievable.
2802) I went in blind. I enjoyed the story and the characters. Some people say the game drags on a bit too much by the end but to be honest I just loved it and felt like an opportunity to spend more time with the characters.,,Surprises by the many deaths in the game? Not really. I'm an avid reader and I'm used to twist and turns. I was surprised to see this kind of story in a video game though. I loved it and it felt real. At the end of the day the universe doesn't give a **** about your heroics. It did hurt though.,,Gameplay was topnotch. Didn't feel bad for the dogs or any of the NPC's though. They are just game mechanics to me. Felt bad about the things that happened to the main cast and wee Alice though.,,I'm just here to counterweight all the bad reviews done by man babies.,,Go play it. At the end I feel like people are going to come to terms with this game and its story. It is truly brilliant.
2803) Excellent game with a amazing story that plays out its themes perfectly, great gameplay that trumps the first game's and amazing graphics
2804) ¡spoilers! ¡spoilers! ¡spoilers! no matter what it shows in the game, no violence or things like Lesvianism. etc. what matters is the story, we start. the setting of the game is incredible, its settings are a masterpiece. although the story does not go according to the first game is very good and works very well. The gameplay is incredible according to playable mechanics, the new ability to lie down and be able to camouflage itself with the environment is very good, in fact I can say that the gameplay mechanics of 2 are better than those of 1. Now I am going to play the controversial part of the game. We already know that Abby killed Joel and that later we have to play with her until the part of the theater where we, being Abby, beat Ellie. after this event ellie looks for more revenge against abby and goes to her location where he finds her kidnapped, he raids her with lev and we start to play the final battle. abby was physically very ill and she couldn't beat ellie and she starts to drown her. when abby was about to die ellie has compassion and sets her free and abby can escape with lev, afterwards ellie comes home without 2 fingers and couldn't find dinna. ellie did not kill abby because she remembered that abby forgave twice (ellie and dinna) and ellie needed to forgive abby a second time, I also forgive her because revenge is like a vicious circle that if we do not give him an end we will not it's over. the last of us part 2 as opposed to 1 teaches us that revenge is not good and that we should forgive people who once hurt us. Before finishing I want to say that it is a great video game and that it is very worthwhile.
2805) Gameplay, story, graphics, level design... A truly masterpiece! Don't listen the haters. Let the game talk for itself ;)
2806) This game is better than the 1 . I love the story and recommend to buy PS4 just for this game.
2807) Games very cool!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
2808) I guess ppl r being too harsh on the game...they aren't realising the graphics/audio/combat (especially the new combat accessibility settings) and the gameplay...I know the story's not the best but that doesn't mean that it shoul b given a 0/10 it isn't fair for the developers who worked so hard on it...for me it's a solid 10/10..never played such a game and I guess I won't be able to get such an experience again.
2809) Just as Good as the First one! they only Took a big Risk with the Story line
2810) This game will break your heart... in all the right ways. It’s devastating and emotionally cruel, and will leave you looking inward into your own soul. The magnificent graphics and amazing story-telling will have you lose yourself deep into it. Full of heartbreak and heartfelt moments, you will feel torn by the end, but be glad you made it through. 10/10 same caliber as the first one.
2811) A masterpiece. The Last of Us Part II is the best thing I ever watched, played or read.
2812) The Last of Us Part 2 is a narrative masterpiece with complex themes and characters that make the player question their morals
2813) After finishing the game I can honestly say that it is wonderful. I have been reading lots of reviews giving the game a 3 or below and I will tell you now that they are trolls. Notice that practically none of the people who gave this game a low rating specifically state what part of the game was terrible in their opinion.,,So if I'm being honest for the longest time I was not thinking that this game was worth a 10/10. I thought a solid 8 because I felt there was set backs. For example, the killing of Joel was tough to handle. How could Joel, one of the most beloved characters, die so early on in the game? And why did Naughty Dog choose to kill him in such a vulgar way? I like to think that killing Joel early on sets up the story same as how Naughty Dog did in the first one. When Sarah dies, Joel stays alive and fights for her, even though this message is implied and not directly stated in part 1. Now Joel is older and he's watched Ellie grow up. Him dying in a nonheroic way sets the tone for this revenge story because Ellie does not want to remember Joel as weak .If Joel would have died more heroically, I'd like to argue that she would be less likely to seek revenge on Abby. In her mind, Joel would have went out the way he should, in honor.,,Now, switching from Ellie to Abby in the game pissed me off for the longest time. Playing as Ellie made me realize how bad ass she's become. But playing as Abby gave gamers a look at another persons life in the apocalypse and it led gamers to realize that no one is really a hero. Now, as a person who has played TLOU 5 times, I will tell you that it took in between 2-3 times of playing the game through to understand why the fireflies aren't an irrational group. So playing this game as Abby allows us to see her trauma, her anger, and her story right away.,,Now I know people will get angry when I say this but I honestly did not hate playing as Abby. She had good weapons and a good back story. Her reason for revenge made so much sense. I have seen people argue that 5 years is to much time to hold this grudge or that 5 years is to long before going on a mission to kill Joel, but you have to remember that communication is hard during this time. It only makes sense that it would take years to find Joel's location because everything is word of mouth. Now I did hate playing Abby when it came time to Ellie and Abby fighting in the theatre, but overall I did not hate her character.,,Now I want to talk about the biggest spoiler of them all, Ellie not killing Abby. Now people are pissed about it, and I understand where this anger is coming from, but I am not angry about this. The first reason I am not angry about this is because if Ellie kills Abby, Lev will die too. The second reason is that she has a flashback of Joel at the end of the fight and she realizes that killing Abby isn't going to bring back Joel. She realizes that she was only going to kill Abby in Joel's honor but she remembers her last conversation with Joel and that seems to change her mind. She talks with Joel about forgiveness, something that is now given to Abby. Just as Abby has given Ellie the chance to live on two separate occasions, Ellie is choosing to let her live.,,Now people are going to argue, "Why go to California if you aren't going to finish the job?",,Let me ask you this, how many fights have you let go even when your honor was on the line? Or someone's honor that you loved?,,Have you let those problems go? Or do you still hold a grudge?,,Whether it be the bullying you might have seen in school, something you care about being torn to shreds, or a unique experience you've encountered, we've all been there.,,So to summarize the message, its not ridiculous to forgive.,,This choice to let Abby go touches on the ideology we call "The Circle of Violence" that exists in society today.,,Now I can defend the story all day but I do want to mention a few things that Naughty Dog did well. First off, Naughty Dog made this game so user friendly. For example, there are certain settings available to help people that are colorblind, have epilepsy, and don't want to see the maximum amount of gore. They were really considerate and inclusive when making the settings. Secondly, going prone is a game changer (nothing more to be said honestly). Third, the fact that Naughty Dog allows players to break windows in the game to get into buildings is more realistic than Joel having to find a key, or alternative routes to get somewhere. Plus Ellie can swim so that burden is lifted from gamers. Lastly (and this is my favorite point), there are a handful of moments in the game where you don't have to worry about enemies or infected. You can just admire the surroundings, such as when you hold JJ or when you are admiring space with Joel. These moments really help gamers get more invested.,,So if you've made it this far, thanks for coming to my ted talk. This game is most definitely worth the buy!
2814) If you played the first and not hung over characters, then you will know that the end set up consequences for Joel making the decision to sacrifice the many to save the one.,With Joel’s death, Ellie is on a revenge quest that also makes you see the other side of a revenge tale with Abby. The story is great if you understand tragedy in literature, however, for more impact, I would have place the play through in different sequences, but ultimately end up in the same place where revenge begats revenge and no one wins.,This tale seems to set up a third hopefully and can’t wait to see what that entails if they go the way of showing off the resurrected fireflies. I’ve read and seen many reviews about people upset with Abby, but to me it was a way to show off her side of events just to reach the conclusion and nothing more. Excellent gameplay and controls feel smooth where I’m not fumbling around to figure out what I need in major boss fights and encounters are just as nerve racking as the first, loved it. Definitely a must buy.
2815) Constantly switching between the tenderness of the past and the brutality of this new quest for revenge, The Last of Us 2 brings more immersive gameplay to a game that is, from now on, a new example to follow concerning mature adventure/action mature games.
2816) I loved this game. I still preferred part 1 (slightly), but Part 2 is an amazing game.
2817) This game deserves the praise it gets. The gameplay is smooth and addictive with a very satisfying combat. It builds on And improves the gameplay of the first game and introduces a bunch of new mechanics without losing its dna.,,The story is extremely well told, it challenges us on our assumptions and deepens our knowledge of the characters we grew to love in the first game. They took risks and it worked, this isn’t a simple good vs bad story. It shows how people, even the best of people can do bad things and be the villain in someone else’s story.
2818) This is the kind of game I hope to get more out of the industry. So much polish on gameplay and visuals. I also liked the story a lot.
2819) Overall great experience is one of those games that puts you on a rollercoaster, you need to finish the game to have the complete experience, also has one of the situations where you as player have the experience of empathy, i really recommended.
2820) Here I am two weeks after finishing the game and still giving thought to the entire experience. The story and depth of the characters is nuanced, gritty and emotionally poignant. The fact that so many are angry is a testament to how beloved the characters are. Thematically the equivalent of 'No Country for Old Men' for the gaming industry.  People will be talking about this one for years.
2821) If people don't like the story, that's fine, they're free to their opinion. And I admit that the writing was pretty mediocre in spots. That said, I personally enjoyed the story, and have yet to see any truly glaring "plot holes." In fact, I don't think most people using that term to describe this game know what it means.,,It's undeniable that this game is visually stunning and has vastly superior gameplay to TLOU 1. The combat is fun and there's a nice and diverse set of weapons to use. I also really appreciate all of the customization tools. You can customize difficulty in really specific and unique ways, you have the option to replay specific chapters or even encounters, and there are a ton of ways to customize accessibility.,,While I don't think TLOU 2 is quite on the same level as God of War (2018), I think it's just a notch below, maybe on par with HZD. It doesn't deserve 1/100th of the hate it's gotten, and will likely be seen as a tremendous accomplishment in a few years once all the controversy dies down.,,And to the people losing their minds over this game, just...play something else. Nothing good comes out of blind rage, which, ironically, is the central theme of TLOU 2.
2822) The Last of Us Part II's potential shortcomings in story decisions, pacing, and character choices are all, first and foremost, subjective, and are heavily overshadowed by the immense graphical beauty, narrative density, and emotional weight this game brings to the table. In my opinion, the game is nearly flawless
2823) I finished my second play through of the game and it is a masterpiece to me. Are there areas of opportunity? Of course... all games have them. This game achieved a fluidity of gameplay and combat that is unparalleled. Play super stealthy and slow if you want, but the fast paced, jumping off boxes, hurdling through windows all while avoiding bullets and taking down “bad guys” was so much more satisfying for me! There was some clunkiness i experienced when interacting with objects, but otherwise this gameplay was phenomenal.,The story was compelling and challenging. I have seen many people argue that this was the weakest element of the game, but I would disagree. I do not agree that people “acted out of character” or that there were pacing issues. I genuinely appreciated the direction and end result.,Graphics... no comments needed. All in all, I loved the game. Wonderful experience!
2824) Way better than everyone is saying, people just overhype stuff too much. just because it doesn’t meet overly high expectations doesn’t mean it’s bad...
2825) An absolute masterpiece. Masterclass in story telling. Thoughtful and uncomfortable story. The people that hate it are incels and bigots.
2826) This game is 100% just as amazing as the first game but for different reasons. The Gameplay/Graphics/Acting is excellent! This game forces you to think beyond the normal run, gun, and destroy enemy NPC's with no name that all look the same. It's a great piece of story telling and one of the best of this generation. No other game made me verbally burst out commentary in such a manner, I was truly engaged in this world and story. I would love a Part 3 if the dev chooses to make one, Day one buy.
2827) One of the best games I ever played! Amazing history and characters! I loved the first game but I think this is better
2828) The media picked up the trend, and hamsters from all over the Internet came running, and put bad ratings. But those who have passed this masterpiece understand that this is one of the best games in history
2829) This game is a masterpiece. I really hope that a Part III will be coming too in the near future.
2830) The game hit so many emotional high points. Pacing felt like a roller coaster, with tense highs and dramatic lows. I both loved & hated almost every character. The game was incredible and I just wish I could play more of it. As a huge fan of the first story, I was immediately consumed by this one. It absolutely delivered.
2831) Don't believe the negative reviews. This game is great and damn near perfect.
2832) Once again Naughty Dog has proven they are in the ELITE tear of videogame developing and interactive storytelling, this game is great
2833) Amazing game. The only think that I want to suggest is to play it in survival mode because from my point of view this makes the game more immersive
2834) The Last Part II didn’t go the way I expected. You might even say that the story was a gut punch. That being said, I loved it from start to finish nonetheless. I was a big fan of the first game, and despite the change in direction for Part II, nothing felt out of place for me. Jumping into the world of TLOU felt good after all those years, and it felt familiar. Then, BAM!, we’re faced with tragedy: Joel’s brutal death at the hands of Abby. “Who is this girl, anyway?” I was quite upset. Much like Ellie, I wanted revenge; I bought in. On a three day quest through the ruins of Seattle, I felt angry, and I could not wait to find Abby and get revenge. After all, Joel’s death couldn’t go unpunished. Then, in another unexpected turn of events, I’m forced to live the same three days as my dreaded enemy: Abby. At first, I wasn’t pleased with this turn of events, but I ended feeling for Abby at the end of this three day journey. Joel’s death was hard to stomach, but The Last of Us was never about heroes and villains, and I am okay with that. The sorry wasn’t what I expected; it wasn’t even really what I wanted at first, but it turned out to be better. For me, it’s 10/10. As far as the gameplay is concerned, it’s an improvement in just about every way when comparing the game to its predecessor. Much like Uncharted 4 learned from The Last of Us, Part II learned from U4. I also really liked that playing as the Ellie felt different from playing as Abby. In fact, I like that every character I’ve played as in the world has felt different. Another 10/10 for me in that category. To each their own.
2835) The last of us 2 is a good game it has cons, but more pros. Everything related to the game-play, graphics, small details, voice acting, music is simply gorgeous. The plot is controversial and not everyone will like it, but I really liked it for its narration and characters. The game is very emotional I have never experienced so many different emotions and of course the game perfectly reveals the theme of revenge, but the first part of the last of us for me will still be the best.
2836) Despite the controversy this game has, is just outstanding in all its sense; gameplay, graphics, and even the story and the plot are great. The only thing that can be done better is the storytelling.
2837) Feel free to ignore every single 0 review and the disgusting portion of the criticism this game unfairly received from utter plebs on the Internet, but don't dismiss more rational criticism others have either. It's okay to not think this game is a masterpiece, and to have problems with some aspects of the story, but anyone raving about how it's a disgrace to the characters and the world of the first game etc can honestly just f*** right off. If they'd understood the message and themes of the first game, then they would realise that TLOU II shows the consequences of decisions made by character's in the first game, absolutely true to the world ND created. To claim otherwise is just wrong.,For me, this game is a 10, but it took me a while to come to that conclusion. I had to take a week away from video games after I finished the story. Not intentionally, but I just didn't have the heart to play anything else. This game was extremely difficult to play at times. But it's also the most fully formed and outrageously effective attempt at an immersive, narrative-driven video game that I've ever seen. Its absolutely outstanding.,After the first couple of hours I was so invested in what was happening, why it was happening and where the story would go that I just sort of melted into the world and the story that ND are telling. It's hard to discuss any story and/or character moments without going into spoilers, but sufficed to say it's Naughty Dog's biggest and most ambitious game yet. It's probably also the most challenging game I've ever played.,There are more than a few moments where I DID NOT want any part of what was happening on screen, and that's because this game does not shy away from showing you some really **** up **** Like, truly haunting, harrowing **** Animal lovers in particular beware. I'm the sort of guy that cries anytime a dog gets hurt or dies in a movie. **** I cry whenever dogs are happy, like those videos where their owner returns from overseas and they can't handle their excitement and joy. There there are moments where I felt sick with guilt while playing through Ellie's story.,The violence is never gratuitous however, at least not in my opinion. It's raw and graphic and feels extremely real, but ultimately this game is a discussion about violence, obsession, and about revenge. It asks you as the player to think about how far you would go for revenge? How far is too far? Is revenge justified when it's born out of love for someone, to want to get payback for them? It shows the fallout of actions made when people let violence and anger envelop them. And it shows them in graphic detail. But it's also a story about love, grief, acceptance, and change. I genuinely believe it to be a much deeper story than some give it credit for. Again, tough to say more without spoilers. I'll leave it by saying that ND did the impossible with regard to the story they chose to tell. And I am so thankful that they did.
2838) The Last Of Us Part 2 is the best narrative I have experienced in all my life as a gamer.,Thank you Naughty Dog for this piece of pure art.
2839) The Last of Us Part II,is a hot pile of mess (and emotional mess) and that is a complement,It will make you feel things u didn't know you could feel that's what the writers and creators definitely intended to do with it, they knew where they are taking the plot and they obviously know where to take it next,They developed the story of the first game and how there are consequences to the ending of that game,Visuals, AI, acting, gameplay elements, all some of the best works ever created,It's a crime tha
2840) Has more depths than u think, with deep characters and deep story that shows you how humans would be if this pandemic is real
2841) I registered just to write a review, the negative reviews seem to be just triggered fans of the first game because "our main character was killed at the start". Games move on, I think if this game was played as Joel also it wouldn't have differed much from the first one, but the whole flipping the player opinion upside down part was brilliant.
2842) Wonderful! Without spoiler, I was doubtful about a certain gameplay/story decision at the beginning, which many review seems based on, but as you play you realize that it was to best way to go. It was the best way to empathize. So you continue playing, and... Honestly just play it to the end!,,There's an interview with Neil Drunkman where he say that people who liked the first part might like like this one, I agree, it's different. But I am glad it is.
2843) this game is a masterpiece. great animation, graphics, great plot with with a good story. ND and Neil Druckmann have done it again.
2844) This game is bizarre (in a good way)... from excellent gameplay, incredible graphics, well written characters, and a brilliant story with a powerful message, The Last of Us Part II will be sure to knock your socks off!
2845) This game is awesome!!,I didn't play the first one and it embraces everything you need to know about Joel and Ellie.,I think the people is giving a bad rating because the characters they present are as human as possible, making decision wrong and right. The protagonist making hard and possible wrong decisions, also the antagonist making good and correction decisions. They give you mixed feelings.,Its the same think as Game of Thrones, the hero isn't perfect and villain doesn't get what it deserves.,Game play is super fluid and gives you a lot of options to perform.
2846) What a ride! Truly Naughty Dog's Magnum Opus.,,I took my time with this game, over 40 hours, explored the environments and buildings thoroughly. ND's attention to detail is astonishing. Best console graphics I have ever seen. Gameplay was superb and trying different tactics was tons of fun. I avoided spoilers as much as possible but had that "one" major event spoiled by some fool on youtube that used it as the video's tag. Apart from that i went in fresh! I really liked the story but was initially annoyed I had to play as a certain character though it grew on me, and damn if said character did not have some of the best gameplay and environments, the highrise was especially fun! Anyway if you love getting lost in a game, appreciate a great story (don't go in expecting to have it play out the way YOU want it to) then give this one a shot. You won't regret it. Open your mind to it and just know this game, much like life, does not always go according to YOUR plan. Enjoy! Hope they make a part 3!
2847) Game play: 10/10,Graphics: 10/10,Story 10/10,While I didnt always like where the story was headed the way it was written (from dialogue to action) was excellent.  Pacing can be touch and go but by the end you realize it's designed like that to make the player reflect. I totally cried at the end tho so be prepared.
2848) First of all, i would like to thank naught dog for such courage and masterpiece game. This review is not easy but you all have to pay attention on the feeling that the game brings to us when we play.  Sometimes we fell anger and sometimes i caught me thinking about what i want for Ellie revenge.,The graphics is amazing and the soundtrack brings us the whole feelling. We have to be mature to undestand the story.
2849) incredible game, i've been gaming since the days of the C64 .. and this is it, the single best example of what games can offer as entertainment .
2850) Never have I been so emotionally invested in a game. The emotional storytelling is incredibly strong. Pure anger, disappointment, fear and, of course, joy -  you can be disappointed with the decisions the characters make. But every decision is plausible and follows a plausible context within the story, within the emotional development of the characters. Best game in 2020 by far and another milestone for naughty dog.
2851) Tremendous effort from Naughty Dog. Ground-breaking storytelling and amazing game design. Just superb
2852) Visuals: 10/10,,Absolutely stunning visuals, level design, character models, etc. Sets the standards for games of the next generation.,,Gameplay: 9.5/10,,Some of the sequences near the end were a bit repetitive, but the vertical nature of combat, enhanced stealth options, dogs, enemy AI, etc. made it to where there was always danger near). I really enjoyed the additions of the stun bombs and silencers in particular. I think that really meshed well with gameplay options.,,Story: 9/10,,Is the story is compelling and moving as the first game? Not for me personally, but I don't even know if that was the intention of the story. Compared to Ellie and Abby, I've never experienced such great loss or yearned for revenge at all costs. I commend Naughty Dog for making these choices and characters relatable though and taking bold risks in their story.,,Some are comparing this game's story value to Season 8 Game of Thrones and The Last Jedi. I believe those comparisons are totally unfair. At no point in this game did I feel the need to suspend disbelief in order to understand a character's decision making. Characters certainly made decisions I did not support, and Naughty Dog masterfully used the agency involved with video games in order to better empathize with the actions of characters. I was absolutely fuming at Joel's death, but I also understood Joel had people on his bad side. I found Abby's story incredibly compelling, and I ended up rooting for her in a way. I obviously didn't want her to kill Ellie, but I certainly no longer wanted Ellie to exact retribution against Abby.,,The game is quite dark and speaks to the cycle of violence as been has discussed extensively. The lesson of forgiveness and ending the cycle of violence came with a supreme price as it often does: tons of death to people not directly involved.,,I also felt heavily connected to the new side characters, especially Dina, Jessie, Yara, Lev, and Owen. I feel this offered a ton of value to the growth of the characters and the plot itself. Although there were times early on in the game where talking about getting Dina back to Jackson felt repetitive and reminded me of Dutch's consistent "Tahiti" plan in RDR2.,,One thing with the story though that was difficult was being shown, in cut scenes, that actions of the playable character may not be justified from the other viewpoint. However, it was jarring at times to then go back into gameplay and start sneaking around, avoiding killing but obviously doing so at times. Now, similar to Joel, there are likely many people out in the world that want to kill Ellie, because she killed an NPC in this game who has hopes, dreams, and a family similar to Abby's dad in the first game, the surgeon.,,This game was complicated and dark, but I ultimately think it spoke largely to the glorification of violence in video games and the need for perspective. We can all be heroes and villains in a story based on perspective. In regards to games, the Last of Us 2's story has very VERY few peers and is a worthy sequel to the first game, which I consider to be my favorite game of all time.,,Overall, I'd give this a game roughly a 9.5 which isn't possible on metacritic, so I rounded up to 10 in order to offset some troll review bombing. In this, I'm assuming a scale of 0 to 10 where 5 is average. Very few games overall should receive 10s, but this is pretty damn close.
2853) Don't believe the whiny losers. This game is a masterpiece. It's understood if you don't like the story; this story isn't for everyone. But the quality is unheard of in a videogame.
2854) Incredible game. A huge leap forward from the last game. Ignore the haters.
2855) When the Last of us part II release and the reviews reached one hundred thousand distribution score on Metacritic which contain a lot of negative comment mostly by people somewhat frustrated with the developer (Which I’ve read include death threats to the director and some of the actors) I immediately bought the game to see what the fuzz is all about.,,It turns out to be the best game I’ve played in any console ever and let me tell you the reasons why:,,Gameplay is better than the first one, it enhanced slightly to be more enjoyable and challenging at the same time. More fun and thrilling than the uncharted series I must say.,,Now the story was the one that make the internet fumes with anger and I understand that people would hate the story (I’m not going to judge for the ones that hate it). It deals with the theme of loss, revenge and anger, a very brutal and dark game and I think it’s very well fitted with the last of us story.,,The developer take a huge risk on this game to challenge players for not using the media subjectively. Killing of your beloved characters, make you play as the antagonist while hunting down the main character and more importantly the ending is the example of the risk that they took to challenge how the players feel. by the end of the game I don’t know how my feelings were about it until I took the time to write this review. I understand now why is very much debated and why it got tons of the reviews in the online community, that is how polarizing this game really are.,,Don’t get it wrong, this game is not perfect, it has some flawed. It’s not the game that many people want nor expected and yet it contains scenes that were unforgettable for most players in years to come. Hopefully many studios would still be bold to make something different after the back clash and death threats in recent times. I’m not saying it’s a perfect masterpiece but it deserves for me to be considered as a flawed masterpiece.
2856) Brilliant game. Don't know why it's being review bombed. Must be jealous xbox and pc fan boys who wish they had a game half this good. But if you enjoyed the first, you will like this. The story can be dividing for some, but I understand why they did it. It will make you think and challenge you. And in the end it is awesome.
2857) This game blew me away from start to finish... I really have never felt so much emotion while playing a videogame. It was an incredible journey, different from everything I've experienced in all my gaming years.,,It is really easy to hate this game, actually most of its runtime is basically you hating everything that's going on, and that's the whole point. The game forces you into a perpetual state of emotional claustrophobia that lingers all the way through the very (cathartic) ending, where you are able to understand what the story is trying to tell you, where you can "breathe" again. It goes way beyond the whole "revenge bad" thing a lot of people seem to take out of this game. I just felt incredibly provoked by its story, like the game wants to show you something you really don't want to see or you just don't care enough. But I personally like being provoked by any piece of media. I like trying to come to terms with something I don't care for, because most artists are only able to tell a certain story by annoying their audience, in a good way. It's like, you can only reach the true artistic value of said piece of media when you go through all of the stuff that the artist is trying to convey.,,The Last of Us Part II is, by all means, an incredibly frustrating, depressing, sad journey about love. The love you have for these two characters, the love you have for your relatives, your friends, for your father, your mother, your brothers and sisters... It's almost sardonically fitting that this game came out in such a hateful time, in a time when people should stand by each other to defeat this really threatening virus, but instead we were never so apart. The United States are, currently, dominating the number of deaths and coronavirus cases, mainly because of one leader who was unable to unite his people. Although we are quarantined, that doesn't stop the systemic chain of racism and hate crimes, as we could see from the brutal murder of George Floyd by the police. This game came out in an absolutely hateful era, and it couldn't have come any other time. A provocative game for the worst of times. I think sometimes we must be provoked so we can learn to do better, we can learn what love, forgiveness and true art can do to ourselves and the ones around us.,,That's why I love this game so much, it's easily become one of my favorites of all time. And I think everyone should play it for themselves! 10/10
2858) Game of this generation. Don't believe the review bombers and play the game to completion before forming an opinion.
2859) The Last Of Us Part II is a masterpiece, but not for everyone, the game contains the best graphics of the generation and a very nice gameplay to play, a soundtrack just like in the first game of the franchise very good, good but that it was already expected, a story of this game is very complex, and it will divide the opinion of its players, it is about revenge for both Ellie and Abby, just playing for a studied opinion, then PLAY !!!. I am the only game that is a double-edged sword, will be loved and hated ...,Note: I am Brazilian, but the assessment is available in English.
2860) Neil Druckmann,I didn't believe in you and you once again made a masterpiece. Thank you Naughty Dog for this wonderful game that brought a lot of emotions.
2861) Oh Dear,,,Judging by the amounts of negative reviews i might be in the minority here but I think for me Naughty dog have outdone themselves.,I am going to try and explain the truth around the disparity between user-score and review scores by the simple fact  - the game was too popular and big to be made into the monster it turned out to be and that is too difficult for many to swallow or perhaps even comprehend the complexity this game presents.,for example imagine the first game as an avengers movie and this one being there will be blood. both are excellent however to make that transition from one to the other with the same characters is for the few not for the many.,I think naughty dog would knew the reception it would get and I am glad they stuck by it. If you are reading this and going to play it for the first time, one big recommendation- go in with a fresh mind, persevere and by the end you I hope you will see the light at the end of tunnel just like I did.,10/10
2862) Absolute masterpiece! An emotional roller coaster. It's not for people who don't want to think about character motivations and complex narrative decisions. You have to finish the whole game to understand it completely.
2863) Just wonderful in every sense of the word.,The writing, performances and gameplay..just wow.,On my second play-through as we speak!
2864) The best game ever people who don't like it because don't understand complexity of the game
2865) Forget the company and snowflakes drama. The GAME itself is AMAZING! Gameplay, graphics, story and audio is top notch.
2866) I loved the story! Don't listen to the hate, the game mechanics were perfect, story was captivating about what humans do in desperate situations. It makes you think about whether or not vengeance is really worth it in the end.
2867) While clearly divisive, this game is a masterpiece from start to finish. The game-play is incredibly polished, and the post-apocalyptic world is lush, beautiful, and incredibly detailed. The story is unlike anything I've experienced, and that includes The Last of Us Part I. The incredibly talented group at Naughty Dog manage to make Ellie's character development feel like your own, and you experience incredible highs and lows with her ( as well as with other characters). Deaths are impactful and stay with you. There is no liberal agenda in the game, and I implore anyone who hears that to examine who is saying that and why. The ending is incredible - and controversial - but feels right. The story will not appeal as much to those who can't be open-minded on how violence and tragedy affect both sides of a conflict, and those who have trouble with empathy.
2868) 10/10 Best game i have ever played.,Unfortunately a lot of people with the mentality of a 12 year old rate it 0 just because the story did not go as they wanted
2869) One of my favorite games of all time. If you havent played it yet you should.
2870) TLOU part 2 is a masterpiece. it will hit you with emotions if you let the story take you on this roller coaster, it has a unique and brutal story line you won't see a lot in games or even other mediums the story does not care about your desires and thoughts so you have to let it take you on this ride, which makes this game so divisive but nonetheless this is a piece of art
2871) The best game i‘ve ever played. Naughty Dog did it and surpassed Part I. Excellent story telling and outstanding gameplay. The graphics are the best on ps4 and can‘t be topped by any game that is coming out in the next months. Glad that i ignored all user reviews and trusted Naughty Dog instead. Masterpiece.
2872) I was really scared of playing this game. I already knew 3 key parts of the story before playing. I knew Joel would die very quickly, I knew I would have to play as Abby for 10 hours and I knew at the end I couldn’t even kill Abby. These three things alone are enough of a reason to scare anyone or to rate this game a 0, however, it just doesn’t matter when combined with the entire experience. Now I am not saying this game is perfect, but certainly doesn’t deserve the hate it has been receiving. Yes, watching Joel die in that way sucks and after finishing the game I still wonder if it was the correct way to end the story of such beloved character. But putting yourself in the mindset, you understand why naughty dog decided to make this, you really feel like Ellie and that motivation keeps you going. Even if I knew I would be playing as Abby, I didn’t know when, so when it happened, at first my motivation to play as Abby was to just arrive at that critical point, but as I kept playing, my motivation changed dramatically and I ended up enjoying a lot the entire Abby section to the point I realized y deeply cared for this characters that I just murdered some hours before. The gameplay, although very similar to the first, I found it very enjoyable and really fun, the graphics and score are just perfect, but what really surprises me is the number of balls a developer needs in order to craft and present a story like this one. I ended up absolutely loving this game and has been on my mind for weeks now, it is truly a devastating, epic, sad, funny, and just a piece of art that anyone should experience. I repeat that yes it is devastating to play this game but in the end, it feels with it. 10/10
2873) Greatest game of this generation.,Emotional story that makes you fill emotionly drained And characters that you wont forget soon
2874) I don't normally post reviews, but I had to for this. The amount of vitriol and hate for the story told in The Last of Us 2 shows us two things:,,Firstly, that the majority of people who played it, completely missed the point of the story and the characters. These aren't just sprites on a computer screen, they're real living people with emotions and complicated drives.,,Secondly, it shines a light on the unbelievable lack of empathy in our modern lives. People are just so unwilling to see the world from someone else's perspective that they're prepared to send death threats to actors who portray characters in a story. Shame on them.,,Naughty Dog's storytelling in this game is just beyond anything I've ever played, and being a part of it makes it so much more connected than any film or a book. The emotion this story brings out in people (positive and negative) is so intense and raw that it leaves a huge mark. I don't know what more there is to ask from a piece of entertainment. This is the absolute pinnacle of gaming.
2875) A journey unlike any other. The visuals and sound are second-to-none, immersive to my core. The game play is purposeful, tense, exciting, and brutal. Improved upon the original in every way.,But the story is the real stand out. This game is the most challenging in what it asks you to feel and think. As you watch these characters grow you'll have to grow, too. That's very demanding and i think it's the root of why the reviews are so divided. In the end, I am confident this game will be remembered as one of the best of the generation.
2876) Brilliant game. Think most of the hate comes from people reading the leaks and deciding they didn’t like it before even playing it. Combat and stealth are easily the best I’ve played in any game. Stunning graphics and a great story that makes you feel everything the characters are feeling.
2877) Incredible game. The part where Joel's dead is the part where most people are mad, but this should not influence in their decision to play it. I've seen a lot of comments that are basically using the same words, so I'm not sure they are bots or something, so this makes me think that Metacritic is not well administrated as we thought. Anyway, The Last of Us Part II is an incredible game, and you have to experience it by yourself
2878) This is no just a game! it´s a masterpiece!!!,the haters will say bad things abt TLOU2 and they´re all wrong.,The experience is worth it, the story is worth it, the gameplay is worth it, the soundtrack and everything is worth it.,Endure and survive, kiddo.
2879) If you were looking for a nice time and a happy ending where all your favourite characters remain as heros and save the day and live a happy life, you didn't understand the first game. The Last Of Us Part II is the most visually stunning, challenging and emotionally engaging gaming experience you could ask for.
2880) Epic Game.,Awesome Storyline Awesome Graphics Awesome Music,Awesome Characters,10/10
2881) Great look at what human behavior leads to without a social structure as a mediator.  Same great gameplay and control as the original.
2882) This is a master piece and might be the best video game ever made. I won’t spoil anything. Just play this game and make your own damn decision. If you’ve made up your mind about this game based on the opinion of biggots, hating this game for its inclusion of LGBTQ+ characters, I urge you to just play it. Play it, and make up your own mind!
2883) Up until a few weeks ago, "The Last of Us" was the best game ever. Now, "The Last of Us: Part 2" is the best game ever. PERIOD.,Beautifully told stories with intricate details. Wonderful graphics and game play. Creepy sound design. All that mattered (plus things that people thought that did not mattered): GREAT!,I managed to escape reading any leaked information, or any spoilers before finishing the game. I think this is the first part of the trick. If you are dwelling in these reviews, and haven't finished the game, you are doing a disservice to yourself ;-) . Then, enjoy (and endure!) what the game has to offer with an open mind (like you probably did for "Part 1").
2884) Best generation game ever. sound design, visual design, compacts mechanics, environmental design, and accessibility was really masterpiece and outstanding from Naughty Dog. Phenomenal work of arts and engineering has been delivered in this game. Story line and music choices compared with first part its not that quality, but still very good in a way or other. Very good job
2885) Absolutely masterpiece! Thank you, Neil, thank you actors, thank you team Naughty Dog! Best game ever!
2886) Refined and polished game play, gorgeous settings, fluid and beautiful character animation - while all not surprising, the truly masterful part of this game is the depth, darkness, and parallels of the main characters.,,The first portion of the game is presented for you to feel angry and vengeful just like Ellie, but by the time you finish, you realize just how terribly similar both Ellie and Abby are. Their need for revenge costs them not only their mental health, but the lives and happiness of their loved ones. This goes hand in hand with establishing the fact that the world isn't all about Joel and Ellie and their actions have huge consequences. By the time the final fight started, I just wanted both characters to not hurt one another anymore.,,I think my only complaint with this game is the strange pacing for the last few hours. It wasn’t inherently bad. I just thought It was ending and it WASN’T. In hindsight, I’m glad it had you press on with Ellie who was just relentless, desperate, and lost, and I don’t know how it could have even been done differently. I probably would have taken a break in the middle had I’d known somehow, tho.,,Overall, this game was amazing. It’s the next day and I just can’t stop thinking about it. It’s been a long time since a video game has affected me this way. Loved it.
2887) Best game ever i dont know why people hate it if u have another idea for the game plz say it cz how i see it, it is perfect like that.
2888) All The mechanics in The game have a top of quallity, The music, the Big cities collapsed by Nature, horror and violence are a wonderfull Journey, The way that animations aré detaiñedi aresane, simply wonderfull game
2889) This game is a masterpiece. Great graphics, great gameplay, and a greater story. The game doesn't have a Hero and Villain plot. It shows that people can be good and bad at the same time. And we should always make the better decision. Ellie forgiving Abby because she couldn't forgive Joel was the best ending.  Every character arc is great.
2890) In a word, devastating. You won’t play a better game or experience a better story. Don’t listen to the negative reviews - this just oozes quality from every frame.
2891) This game I found to be very enjoyable, the graphics and movements were top-tier quality and the story was balanced with just enough down time/happy moments to balance out the intense action. The characters felt natural and well written. The game is very different to the first one and from everything else that has come from Naughty Dog, however that's the charm, this is a game-changing experience. Naughty dog and all the staff involved with every aspect of the game should be commended for thinking outside the box and giving an engaging experience to players. It encouraged different perspectives, not just the blind kill everyone and everything that walks approach of other games.,Overall this was a highly enjoyable experience, perhaps not for everybody but I recommend trying the game itself to form your own opinion as some opinions on this game can be biased. Happy playing!
2892) Honestly, ignore the negative reviews on this. They're either from racists/homophobes/transphobes or people who can't enjoy a well done story that doesn't just do what fans beg. Even if you disagree with the story every other element is improved upon the first game. Incredible story and experience. Get it now!
2893) Great game. Excellent writing, ultra-violence and the introduction of a great new character, Abby. Sad the neckbeards feel the need to review-bomb this great game just because they can't take it when a character they like gets canned.
2894) The AI from this game is unrecognizable from the first. Insane improvements. I also enjoyed the story more than the first. The people complaining about "agenda pushing" have the thinnest skin I've ever seen.
2895) Great story. Great visuals. Great music. Personally I didn’t really like playing as Abby, because after her scene with Joel I saw her as a villain. Especially I didn’t like it when I had to fight as her against Ellie, but seeing her perspective was definitely something new and interesting. Still the game was awesome. Definitely Top 3 of this generation.
2896) Don’t believe the **** post reviews. This game is sad, but that only adds to the believability of the story. The fact that this story doesn’t make you feel good, shouldnt detract from how we interpret the quality of this game overall. This **** is good. Buy it and enjoy the hell out of it
2897) Literally a perfect game, I don’t think I have ever played something that made me feel so much.,This is a masterpiece, do not be put off by review bombers, this is an amazing game with a beautiful and perfect story’s
2898) The game is about how difficult it is to look at the situation through the eyes of another person. How difficult it is to forgive and how difficult it is to lose someone. Great game
2899) The Last of Us Part 2 has a different proposal  from the first one, it excenletly potrays the violence and the hate cycle in a destroyed world. It is one of the best games I have ever played
2900) The best part of this game is the introduction of what will undoubtedly be a classic video game character: Abby...whatever her last name turned out to be. She's the most accurate depiction of a video game heroine that I've ever seen. I'm a huge fan of her, and I'm hoping to see more of her in the future.
2901) Don't listen to the bunch of stupid trolls out there. This easily one of the best games ever made! Truly a masterpiece!
2902) Rollercoaster of emotions. Well written narrative. Supported by gameplay and game mechanics that make the world feel alive, and you a part of the character. 10/10 a must play for this generation.
2903) Great game, amazing graphics and game play. The story is great but it is not designed to please fans, it makes you feel vulnerable and in a real feeling of danger like if any of the characters can die any moment.,Great play, naughty dog.
2904) Such a masterpiece. A rollercoaster of emotions. No game has ever made me feel this way
2905) Since no one listened, everything must be repeated again. An eye for an eye will make us all blind. The best story game in recent times. Thanks to the developers for their courage.
2906) the last of us is a good franchise the last of us is a good franchise **** you
2907) Ignore the ignorance and people who supposedly don't like the game BUT keep coming back here every day to submit a negative review because they don't get the game lmao. It's not false advertising, they had to protect the story. You as the consumer were not sold something, no one had any idea what this game was going to bring for the story.,,This game is a 10/10 and hands down the best, most immersive, challenging (in every sense of the word) game I have ever and probably will ever play. You will be sad. You will be shocked. You will be angry. You will be happy. You will be amused. This game will make you feel every possible emotion and it's a feat not seen in the gaming world. It's a game that forces you to think and think deeply. It forces you to see the other side, which has never been done in this fashion before in any game.,,AND if you want to really understand the ending, read this comment (https://i.redd.it/r7emk881yt951.jpg), because I guarantee you 95% of the people who submitted a negative review did understand the ending and missed this tiny but huge detail.
2908) The people who hate this game for a certain ‚agenda‘ are what’s wrong with the gaming community, or even what’s wrong with the world. Besides being a masterpiece from a technical point of view, this game is what the world needs in 2020 contentwise as well. This game is not pushing any agendas, it just comes closer to the diverse reality we live in than any other game before. I don’t know in which fake world you guys want to continue to live in. Just shut up.
2909) This game has made me emotional in a way no game has done before. It's a harsh roller coaster of a story and really takes gaming story telling to the next level. What a great send off for the Playstation 4 generation! Well done Naughty Dog, well done.
2910) There is no question that this game is a masterpiece, everything is top-notch. I believe all the haters are just obsessed fan boys or they didn't even play the game at all.
2911) This game ripped me apart, it didn't give me what I wanted, but what I got was amazing, I am not a happy ending kind of guy, hoped for a different story, but all makes sense to me in the end, and really liked the new brave way to do a videogame... I still think this is a masterpiece of a story. Don't hope it ends like this, hope for more gaming and not closure on the HBO series
2912) There's a saying "haters gonna hate". Well let them hate. They are blindly giving negative comment on this game. Yes this game is the most polarizing game but it didn't sucked. Gameplay is superb and the graphics are amazing as well. After completing the game I felt empty like there's a question in my head "was the story great or was it a disappointment"? I am feeling like this wasn't a good story nor a bad story but it was tragic not the way people wanted. It was emotional. Some are just blindly judging the game based on the leaks and some just don't care about anything. I saw the leaks and the full experience was worth. Joel's death was really tragic and sad but I still enjoyed the game. All these negative comments are just not justifiable. Most of the negative reviews are from those who didn't even played the game yet review bombing it. I don't know what else to say it's just I'm feeling empty. This game will be on my mind for a long time. I hope naughty dog makes a 3rd part or even a 4th part which will be a proper conclusion to this wonderful franchise. I will gladly play these games. Please naughty dog ignore the hate you guys are amazing and you know that. You have shown your qualities before and you will show it again. And lastly only one thing I would say is that it's a divisive game and haters will try to troll the ones who loved the game and the people who loved the game will surely defend it. This a part of the cycle of life.
2913) One of the smartest and graphically best games ever! Don't let the frustrated review bombers influence you!
2914) My Review:,,Naughty Dog's mistake was to believe that people would be able to understand the complex world and mind of the characters and their changes during the years between TLOU1 and TLOU2.,,Joel's death was composed perfectly, and has more deph to it then people were actually able to see. Joel lived for 20 years of his life in a quarantine zone as a smuggler, fighting the military, killing a lot of people and doing whatever it took to survive. But in TLOU2, Joel had his life completely changed. He was living in a city where people from all around would go throught it to trade, sleep for a feel days, and just go away. Joel was relearning how to live, relearning how to interact with people,  and his only worries were Ellie's and the community's survival. Joel was a changed man! He "trusted" Abby because he had no other place to go and was used to finding travelers around the area. Also, it was not the first time Joel chose to trust someone, as he had trusted on Henry, not once, but TWICE in the first game + Henry even betrayed him, but Joel could forgive him as shown in the tower scene where they were having a very friendly chat and laughing. (OF course Joel wanted to know if Henry was right about the fireflies, but Joel had a place to go in his mind, and he choose to follow Henry instead of going afer Tommy, proving that even dough he was harsh, he could still trust people).,So in conclusion to this topic, Joel could not have know what he was getting into, and even if he saw something coming, he didnt have other choice + He had met a lot of traveleres that were friendly, so Abby's suggestion did not sound bad to him, especially in the situation they were. Joel's death showed he was a human being that can sometimes trust the wrong people and die. Its just like he told Ellie in the first game: "We are just lucky, and luck runs out".,,About the ending:,TLOU2's ending was close to perfect.,I read a critic by Cultured Vultures that had me disapointed, because I couldnt imagine how a specialized crew could be so blind to see all the game's journey and how the conclusion proved a enormous point, that is the main critic of the game (its important to say that I think revenge was the main critic, but the game makes a point about everything bad in the actual world right now, so its just my point of view about what is the main critic. It could be about something else in the actual director's plans),,Cultured Vultures on TLOU2:,In trying to subvert expectations, The Last of Us Part II discards the best aspects of its predecessor to provide a rote revenge tale that is ill-considered, ending on a note that makes everything — all the violence, all the loss, all the struggle — feel utterly, hopelessly pointless.,,Dear Cultured Vultures, the "pointlessness" of the revenge was exactly the sensation that the game needed to provide to show that revenge was not the best solution to anyone's problems, but you guys were too stupid to see.,,Ellie and Abby lost everything during this journey of revenge. Abby had lost the fireflies and her dad, so she chaced Joel and killed him , but her revenge directly impacted someone that had no reasons to go after her before, and started a cycle of revenge that could have been avoided if she moved on. So Ellie goes after Abby, finds and kills every last one of them except for who she actually wanted to kill, and its forced to give up, because otherwise, she would get more people that she cared about killed. And the only reason that Ellie actually survived the third day, was because Abby showed herself as a good person that was blinded by revenge, and realized that she started this, so she tried to stop it herself by sparing both Dina and Ellie.,But Ellie had not learned her lesson and in her mind,  her comfort would come from killing Abby, when it actually would only come if she could forgive Joel and herself, and by doing so, accepting his death like of those she loved that had died before. So in conclusion, Ellie was not ready to accept what she loss until she had lost so much that the only thing left was her humanity and the memory of Joel, so she spared Abby at the final scene, because in that moment where she nearly killed Anny, the thing that came through her mind was not what Abby had done, but what she could not do, which was forgive Joel sooner and learn how  to love him again, and that was Ellie's biggest regret and the main cause of pain + She even lost her fingers 3 and 4, making her not able to play guitar, which was the thing that most resembled her of Joel's goodness and love.,,Even if u didnt like the story , giving this art work of a game a "0,1,2,3" is unexcusable!,4.4 user average just shows that theres a lot of stupid people with internet, and that people arent ready for games as complex and deep.,,The Last Of Us Part 2 is the best narrative I have experienced in all my life as a gamer.,Thank you Naughty Dog for this piece of pure art.
2915) Spoiler free review , i loved playing through this game alot ! altough i was bored in some parts but they still conveyed in a good way what they meant to convey ,as i say myself this is what i call beautiful in a **** up way , from an astonishingly unique story to some good old revisited gameplay mechanics from the first game and unique detaills to atmosphere and the stunning textures , would recommend playing through this definitely worth the time
2916) Best Game i played in 2020! Story, Gameplay, Playtime and emotions. Everything awesome!
2917) Excellent writing paired with visceral combat. Finishing this game will leave you wishing for more yet glad that it's over. Incrediblely powerful.
2918) Anyone who doesn't understand why Ellie doesn't kill Abbi is clearly failing to see the amazing emotional journey they all go through. Games in which there's a good guy and and the good guy shoots the bad guy, the end, are many. The idea of seeking revenge on someone who killed someone for the same reason you plan on killing them for, for me is not a black and white matter and I may have made the same decision  Elli did.  In fact, I was relieved when she didn't kill Abbi. With all the baggage they all carry, and all the **** they've all been through, who knows what the correct decision would be at that point.,I have to say that it took me a while to get used to playing as Abbi, but I managed to connect to her as much as I had connected to Ellie. Overall, loved the game
2919) SPOILERS AHEAD,,I pre-ordered this game twice, due to Sony canceling the first from delays. The first came from faith in Naughty Dog’s ability to deliver: verified throughout the Uncharted series and the first part of this series. The second pre-order was a decision I made after hearing that the story was leaked; I avoided the content of the leaks but witnessed the overwhelming negative reaction to them. The only hints I gathered for the plot were based on trailers and pre-leak comments, such as the theory that Joel dies -- which turned out to be correct. My excitement never died down, throughout all delays and controversy. I’ll make some notes about gameplay, but the focus of this review is the story, which has caused the most divisiveness online.,,GAMEPLAY,The gameplay and mechanics are great and drove me to keep playing for hours and hours in a single sitting. I played on Hard and it turned out to be a good balance between pacing and enjoyment (I didn't want to finish the game just for the story). My only problem is that I could rarely pull off the flashy moves seen in the trailers, which showcased incredible interactions with the enemies and environment. I think a future run-through on an easier difficulty will open up those possibilities, though. The ability to go prone was a simple but much-needed addition that made me feel more human and mobile than the first game. Most spaces were navigable and squeezing through narrow spots proved to be a satisfying mechanic.,,CHARACTERS,The newly-added characters are my biggest problem with the game.,In TLOU1, the writing combined with the voice acting resulted in some of the most engaging dialogues and personas I have had the pleasure of experiencing, in any form of media. The game's introduction -- a short and sweet conversation between a daughter and her dad -- had me deeply invested in Sarah and Joel quickly but organically. The Southern twang they spoke with made them unique and real, and contributed to the feeling that I knew who they were. When Sarah was killed, I was feeling the exact sense of dread that Joel felt, and this instantly cemented him as a do-no-wrong protagonist in my mind. Despite this, my positive view on him was constantly challenged throughout the game, though, making him more complex than just a 'good guy in a video game'. None of the other events of the story would have mattered if I didn’t initially care about Joel.,,In TLOU2, I only saw this rich character evolution in characters I already knew, and this was because I understood who they were. I could recognize each turning point in their character arc, such as Tommy’s initial indecision on revenge transforming to his irrational desire for it. On the other hand, I could never engage so deeply with additions like Dina, Jesse, or Abby. Part of this was because the voice acting was fairly cookie-cutter, all sharing a rather neutral personality with no distinguishing emotional characteristics. They had stories to tell, but I couldn't care as much for them because they weren't distinct or special. This isn’t to say these characters didn’t undergo an evolution. For example, Abby helping Lev was a turning point for her, but it didn’t feel like one because I couldn’t determine who she was before this change.,Luckily, my enjoyment of the complete experience in TLOU2 made this less impactful than it could've been if, say, the gameplay or story were not as impressive as they were.,,STORY,After my first play-through, I felt the story did not live up to that of the first. This may have been due to preconceptions I garnered from the loud outsiders who bashed the plot before experiencing it. Sometimes, I would find myself picking at tiny details in the story rather than taking in the overall picture. Once I changed my microscopic view to a more holistic one, I came to love TLOU2’s story more than the first. No other game has given me so many different interpretations to the character’s reasonings, or had me questioning their decisions weeks after completion. No other game has drawn such a blurred line between protagonist and antagonist (I still don’t know who’s who). As my appreciation and love for Joel kept growing and growing through the incredible flashbacks with Ellie, a tug-of-war commenced between understanding Abby’s (and humankind’s) revenge while wishing that Joel lived, or at the very least, died a dignified death. This wasn’t the only tug-of-war going on; Ellie's internal conflict for revenge against Abby also left me deeply torn, as did many other decisions and deaths in the story. Despite this, in the end, every single rope broke and the immense pain endured by all parties to ‘win’ meant nothing.,,Side note: Joel’s death scene is a masterpiece. The museum flashback is a masterpiece.
2920) Best game especially for the price. Character creation, graphics, story, gameplay, emotion...my list goes on.
2921) For me, this game is a masterpiece . The story captivated me from the beginnng to the end. I suffered with Ellie and Abby
2922) Nice game and worth the experience,Great gameplay, amazing graphics, and elaborate characters,Thank the studio for their effort
2923) Game of the generation! Just like It's predecessor. This game is brilliant in every way. Not perfect, but there exists no game that is perfect. Loved every minute of it.
2924) A Naughty Dog's masterpiece. As a hardcore fan im more than proud. Everything I've ever wanted from a game.
2925) My feelings for the game changed several times during the passage. But somewhere in the middle of the walkthrough, I realized that what Drackmann did was brilliant. He is a genius. And the best author in the industry. I enjoyed the game. Don't be children crying for a dead hero. The author has the right to his point of view.
2926) Greatest game of all time. Excellent gameplay, audio, lighting, environment, story, soundtrack, etc. Was very angry in the beginning (which the game does to you intentionally), and then my emotions constantly switched between depression, sadness, anger, and happiness throughout. Keep away from spoilers and have an open mind when playing this game!
2927) time will show the fact。good game picks its player。 and game is not a toy for child
2928) Absolutely a amazing game it's not as good as the first one but otherwise amazing!!
2929) I have waited for this game for 7 years and it is a gem I love it so much the story is incredible, the graphics and lighting make this one of the best looking games I have ever seen!
2930) The Last Of Us Part II is a masterpiece and hands-down the game of the year. The story is every bit worthy of being a continuation of its predecessor. It's nothing short of a technical masterwork as far as graphics, performance, and sound design are concerned. The gameplay is head-and-shoulders superior to the first. Its queer representation is industry-leading and should be the standard going forward for AAA games and their portrayal of queer characters.,,While my natural inclination in the face of the barrage of hate from people who haven't played the game is to give it a 10/10 on principle alone, I know that would be dishonest of me, so I instead give it a 10/10 because as far as game design is concerned, this game is as close to flawless as any I've played.
2931) If you're a true fan of the perfect 1st game, then there is nothing to dislike here. The only thing lacking is a soundtrack as good as the 1st but everything else is top drawer. Naughty Dog continue to be the best in storytelling through the game medium.
2932) We doesn't have to speak about graphics and sound design. It's awesome. We have to speak about the Story. I can't understand why this game with this awesome heartbreaking and breathtaking story gets hate. In every movie oder series this story would be loved so much, so why not here?,I hated the game and i loved it while playing. sooo.. well played NaughtyDog. I have waited for a game to catch my feelings in this intensity. Only thing.. i would have loved to see the story get on a little bit longer.. but just because i hate uncertainty till years of waiting to let the story continue...
2933) Originally, like most, I finished the game with a bit of a bad taste in my mouth, but i played a 2nd time with an open mind and was actually amazed with how brilliant the story actually is. Treat the main characters like they are the hero of their own story, look at how amazingly the game and writers compare the two main characters to show how similar they actually are as they both go through their own separate struggles over the course of the game and how they process and overcome their individual demons. You have to look closely, the game doesn't just lay out these gems for you like most media platforms like movies or TV, you have to dig deep to appreciate the layers this game has.  This is absolutely a masterclass in complex storytelling.  Bravo to all involved at Naughty Dog!!
2934) A masterpiece! The first one killed me emotionally, but this, this one even more so. I would love to see another story in this world, I hope ND have one more story to tell in this world...
2935) Game of the year. A True Masterpiece from naighty dog, pushing the boundaries of what a game can do and tell.
2936) Very interesting game with great graphics. I recommended this game to all my friends and they all liked it.
2937) One of the best games I have everplayed in my life. We see the world from the first-person narration we tell ourselves, and almost every action we take is one we believe is right. Justified, even. We are often shocked when we realize we said or did something hurtful, offensive, or wrong. We live in our heads, so we know better than anyone else that we’re one of the good ones, and we would never do such a thing intentionally.
2938) I am very sorry that not Mature minds began to massively underestimate the rating of the game. I Express my absolute gratitude to the entire team. Incredible story arcs, strong experiments with the stories of heroes. The game impresses with its atmosphere and gameplay.
2939) THIS GAME IS A MASTERPIECE, I mean i don’t know what to say really, the game is as close to perfect in my eyes, the story arc and just character development is A1, mainly because at the start of the game i wanted to see Abby get killed just as much as the next guy, but i never would of thought but by the end i felt sorry for her, she lost her dad to Joel, that is enough reason to go after him, let alone him being the reason the vaccine will never be created. She lost all of her friends, she lost everything, except for Lev. Surely thats worse than death. I also think the end of Ellie’s story was heartbreaking but perfect, there’s still hope for her imo, she learned that at times you gotta learn to not let your emotions get the best of you, to me and the end she’s going back to Jackson to possibly fix her relationship with Tommy, Dina etc. but thats me thinking positively, we’ll see if they do a part III. Also the gameplay is **** great, that **** is brutal and i love it, graphics are obviously incredible, cant wait for multiplayer, whenever that comes out. Overall its literally a perfect sequel, not quite as good at the original, but its so damn close.
2940) The great game, best of 2020, I love story, graphics, all. GOTY 2020 #tlou2 ❤️
2941) Played from start to finish, not everyone's a hero but still was very enjoyable.
2942) Best graphics ever, mature storytelling. Memorable story. Best game of the ps4
2943) The game really challenged me emotionally and mentally and that is something that rarely happens. Absolutely loved it.
2944) The whole story is mainly about forgiving. This game makes you feel the anger and the lust for vengeance. Then, it shows you what these feelings cost. The process of forgiving takes time, this is why Ellie killed so many people but not Abby at the end. And if you still want to kill Abby at the end of the game, then it means you lost the game. This game shows you that you are not pure good and the people you hate are not pure evil. There is no hero or villain in this story and in the real life. In addition, in real life, most of the people die early in a way they do not deserve. So, I think that the joel's death was so realistic.,Moreover; atmosphere, graphics and the combats are so good. You may not like the game for you did not like the story, but you must appreciate that.
2945) Very good game. Just play it and you Will see! Amazing graphics and music. Very good job
2946) It's a game about giving up everything you love for revenge. It's about you being the villain in someone else's story. It's about feeling empathy by putting yourself in another person's shoes. This game broke my heart, and I loved every minute of it.
2947) One of the best games ever made.  Story is fantastic!  People are so upset that it isn't the story they wanted.  Get over it, the events happened.
2948) I’m pretty confused about all the “controversy” because this game has it all. It has a gripping story, very well written and complex characters, incredible gameplay. Beautiful environments. It’s an emotional roller coaster in the absolute best way! So much replayability and it’s such a satisfying length. You won’t regret picking this one up.
2949) Beautiful game, loved every bit of the game and will keep playing it over and over.
2950) Thank you Naughty Dog!
2951) s. The gameplay is a bloodied brilliance and shows awesome perspectives that would otherwise be ignored. Nothing quite like pursuing justified yet irrational revenge killing from both sides of the story. It's a shame there are so many people who can't appreciate that or accept that when faced with death and rage, people do rash things. One of my favorites now, for sure
2952) The best game I ever played, however, many people do not like this just because the game didn't go as everyone wanted
2953) A depressive, intense experience that left me completely empty at the end. I loved it.
2954) Give it a chance and you'll love it. There's a reason why the game is so critically lauded, don't pay attention to people who gave this a zero before it even came out
2955) It’s definitely the most memorable game of the generation for me. While I had fun playing all kinds of games during the gen, this was the only one which left me emotionally emptied for days, in a good way I guess. The first game was a scripting and graphics achievement for its time, but this one is better and bigger in every aspect. Naughty Dog takes all the expectations, and turns them upside down. At the point when you feel everything has come to an end - they tear your heart out, put it down on the ground and dance on it in a manner that you’ll love.,The only thing which feels missing is the multiplayer, but for the 30h game with such amount of details and attention put in it it’s too much to ask I think.
2956) I'll start off with the gameplay being top tier. This is hands down one the most immersive games I've ever played. Each character has their own name, and seeing how people react to the deaths around them made each character feel much more human. Even the dogs have names and I feel terrible after each one I take down. And the ways the enemies get smarter after each kill is amazing. Then there's the story. Never has any story brought me so much emotion like this game has. It brings you to the extreme hatred after Joel is killed, then you start to sympathize with the killer. It really definitely made every character feel a lot more realistic.
2957) Perfect game of this generation it is look like the next generation game.The story of the game is not good as the last of us 1 but the graphics and mechanics are unbelievable.Everybody should play this game.
2958) This game is the most realistic game I've ever seen, there's no heroes, no good or bad people. There's just people doing good AND bad things and having to deal with consequences of it,There's love, passion, regret, mourning, there's so much going on, just shallow dumbs can't understand it
2959) One of The Best Games of Generation. The Last of Us deliverie a deep dive in characters minds and feelings. Its not only about hate and revenge.
2960) One of the best games of this era. i am not gonna say anything specific but if you liked the first one then this is a MUST! I respect the decision of Naughty Dog giving it a more cinematic look with a tough plot!,Play it before you judge it.
2961) Tremendously Fantastic Game! I enjoyed it thoroughly with a lot of elements I did not expect. The design of the world plus the game mechanics absolutely stellar. One of the best of the best
2962) The Last of Us Part II is truly one of the greatest stories ever told. This game taps into what it's like to lose loved ones, how to make sense of that loss, and then what many do to deal with it. it takes you on the path of those pre and post loss and helps you empathize with all sides to any given conflict. It creates true meaning for characters through their own motivations, fears, and weaknesses.,,Whether or not you like how the events play out in The Last of Us Part II, Naughty Dog sticks to their guns. They tell an important and impactful narrative through character dialogue, world design, and gameplay. It marries each aspect of the game together, aspects, that set the bar for the games industry. The animations of each character, every drop of rain, shard of glass, pustule of an infected, feels meticulously hand-crafted. The visuals are truly mind boggling as to how humans were able to achieve this in a video game. It's a story and experience I'll never forget.
2963) The best experience I have ever had with a video game in my life. I have never felt so many emotions like this before. Some of the best graphics, designs, acting and soundtracks in the industry. I think the story is so powerful that people directed their anger and frustration that were intentionally developed in the game towards the producers which lead to such negative impacts at first. But if you manage to stay immersed in the game, the narrative you get to experience is really well written and is capable of inducing a lot of reflections from the players perspective. In the end i believe a lot of the discussions this game created tells us a lot more about the gaming community than the game itself, which is the impact that you expect from such a well crafted masterpiece. Thank you Naughty Dog and all involved for this, hope to see more games in this direction!
2964) It's completely epic! Awesome story, perfect gameplay. I spent more the 40 hours and feel that it will be such interesting to play once more
2965) as much as i hate the story, this game is the best looking game of all time.
2966) This is a masterpiece, I can’t believe how much I truly enjoyed this game. Incredible job naughty dog, Sony and especially the actors that brought the game to life.
2967) Outstanding. Introducing new characters and a emotional story this game will stick with me forever. I cannot imagine this level of story telling coming around again for a long time. Very sad that this experience is over. I only fear that playing games will now feel so much less engaging compared to this.
2968) Genuinely one of the top games of this generation.,The story has many plot points that would look, on paper, to be quite concerning however the game is so much more compelling when you actually experience the storyline for yourself. The story is controversial for understandable reasons but i respect that NaughtyDog went in a direction that we were not expecting and I truly believe that they executed this daring story extremely well. The gameplay is what you'd expect from NaughtyDog; highly polished and incredibly addictive.
2969) Video games have always been about pandering. About what the player wants, about what will make it a success, about what will make the most money (except for maybe some indie games). The Last of Us II breaks the mold for video games as an art form. I didn’t like the game when I first played it. I thought I understood it, but I didn’t. After watching the spoilercast interviews with the cast and writers, reviewing old scenes and Ellie’s journal, I realized that the reason I didn’t understand it is because I was expecting the same kind of story as the first game. Not that I was expecting an Ellie&Joel story, but that I was expecting a blatant and straightforward one. One that was incredibly impactful, but also incredibly simple. This second game is so complicated and nuanced. So many details, and so many more lessons than “revenge is bad”. To paraphrase Troy Baker “You can’t love it selfishly, and so you have to love it selflessly”. The first game was a YA novel. This one was a classic
2970) This game has the best graphics and lighting/shade effects I have ever seen on a console. The story is fantastic, the game play is extremely immersive, and there are numerous jump scares throughout the game. I can absolutely not understand why anyone is panning this game with a 0 or 1 review. It truly defies logic. As I get older I have noticed that games have a harder time capturing my attention than they did when I was a kid. I have spent $60 numerous times on games that I have literally put down within the first half hour of game play. The Last of Us Part II has captured my attention and I am throughly engrossed in the story. The voice acting is great, the game is challenging but balanced. If I had any issues there is a long playable flashback sequence that could have seen shortened a bit (however I did note that it was pretty well done). This game is certain to be a finalist for game of the year and is another incredible Sony exclusive. As I stated earlier, with my limited attention I normally don’t care for a lot of cut scenes, but I find these to be so well done that I don’t have any issues with them. They have all contributed to the story line. This is about as close I have seen to a gaming experience blurring the lines between a cinematic experience and a video game. I haven’t reviewed a game in a very long time, but I felt compelled after seeing people flaming on it in the user reviews. I would hope the poor reviews aren’t because of the sexuality of one of the main characters? Or because the Last of Us II offers up a Game of Thrones-like rip out your heart moment early in the game. If you liked the Uncharted Series or Tomb Raider games I think you will thoroughly enjoy this adventure. It has influences from both, with a story that pays homage to The Walking Dead television series along with some of the stealth type gameplay elements of Metal Gear or Splinter Cell. If you are offended by a lesbian main character or if you will be disappointed that Joel from the “Last of Us” is not the star of the game don’t get it. If you want to play a game that will have you talking about where you would rank it on your all-time favorites list... well then, this one is for you. If I have one complaint it’s that sometimes after a battle you use a med pack just to realize moments later that there is going to be a cut scene and you are going to have your health replenished automatically. This game is truly a masterpiece. The convergence of the main characters through a very ambitious story line has never been done in a game before. It has elements of the movie Pulp Fiction in this respect. The AI is amazing as enemies deviate on their routes when you have replayed a scene several times you will notice.  Sometimes they repeat, but it is not a given.  I can’t exude enough praise on this title. It is a must own and would find itself firmly placed near the top of my all-time favorites.
2971) The first game I ever played that hit so much, you cannot fully understand the plot without refreshing your memory after completing the first part. A lot has changed, weapons improvements, a new skill system, now you have a diary, as in RDR 2.,There are some very cool things (take a closer look at the tracks in the snow, falling snow, glass and moss when you swim in the swamps). Of course, we saw this before in RDR2, but because of this, it ceases to be cool?,From the point of view of the plot, yes, there are very small holes, but the whole plot is incredibly interesting. This game is worth buying, so many people worked to exhaustion. The game deserves 13/10 on Metacritic but not 0
2972) Amazing,gripping and tense gameplay. It is an improvement over part 1. Story was naughty dog's ownership and we have to accept what message writers giving us. Humans are enemies of each other over petty matters and few resources. We should realise no virus or contagion is threat to us but we are threat to ourselves
2973) Enjoyed the game and really liked the fact is had a daring story that makes you think. The ending won’t be to everyone’s taste but after spending around 24 hours playing as both characters I understood why it ended the way it did
2974) This game is tottaly good. No words need 10/10.,Only one thing i would point out that not everyone will enjoy the story for abby.,But over time you will find that even abby experienced something and did not kill joel in the beginning for no reason.
2975) An incredibly well made game. Every detail is considered, from the previous game to every complex character and the way they intersect in the game world. It is gut wrenching and beautiful at the same time.
2976) A masterpiece and emotional roller-coaster, showing the bad effects of revenge and blind rage.,I learned to hate Ellie, because she became a blind psychopath, didn't care for her friends anymore and chose revenge over everything else. Lovely, the other side was so much more sympathic, caring and loyal.
2977) What an amazing game ! After seeing a lot of bad review I thought I wouldn't enjoy the game but I was 100% wrong. I was in tears at the end and the entire game is a masterpiece to me
2978) The game is just awesome. She is ten times better than the first part. The gameplay has become much more diverse and interesting. Graphics, animation and details are the most important advantages of the game. The plot is very good. He made me feel completely different emotions: fear, hatred, anger, sadness and tears, joy. The first part of the game is very happy with what is happening, but by the second half of the game for Abby I was not used to it from the beginning, I had to freeze myself to play for some time. But then I fell in love with the second half as well as the first. The boss fight in the hospital is so awesome that I haven’t admired such things in games for a long time. The end also leaves a lot of things to think about, just like the first part. This game is an undeservedly criticized masterpiece. 10/10 Game of the Year
2979) Incredible, Absolutely Stunning graphics and gameplay, Story is nothing like i've ever seen, ND has really taken a huge risk no other company would dare to take, The twists, The sadness, The forgiveness, everything, This is definitely one of the best games ever made.
2980) I really don't understand why people are hating this game. "Oh my favorite character dies, boo-whoo!" Well, welcome to the real world. Cause that's what TLOU Part 2 is: the real world, with real people, in a post apocalyptic view. And just like the real world, no one is immortal. We're all human beings and our lives could be cut short in any moment. "But the entire story is just non sensical! I mean, all of this just to get revenge and in the end, Ellie lets Abby go? That's **** Yeah, because I'm sure that if a person you loved was killed like that in front of your eyes you would take a break and veeeery calmly come up with a plan on how to get your revenge. Surely you wouldn't act on impulse, pushed by the hate, no no. And in case you didn't notice, the more time passes, the more Ellie realizes that she wasn't doing the right thing, especially after the fight in the theater, where Abby spares her (and Dina) for the second time. But then, convinced by Tommy, she wants to go find Abby again, and in the final battle she understand that her sleepless nights were not due to Abby being alive, but on how her relationship with Joel ended. Ellie will never be able to tell Joel that she was sorry for how she treated him and for what she told him. That's why she lets Abby go. Killing her wouldn't have solved anything. Plus, the Abby gameplay was crucial to the story, to make you understand her point of view; to make you understand that neither Ellie nor Abby are right or wrong. Every hero is someone else's villain, remember that. Now that I took this out of my chest, what can I say about the game? Truly a masterpiece.
2981) Best game i have ever played! First game made me cry! I have never feel like that
2982) The first game honestly first time playing through was life changing and I have loved the game ever since. I have been non stop thinking about the release of the second game and honestly it did not disappoint. I loved it all the way through and once again the game made me feel something I don’t feel often.
2983) Truly a worthy sequel. Improves on the gameplay and mechanics of the first game in so many ways. Glad to see a big franchise taking risks in the narrative and personally I loved the direction they took with the story, although some people may find it too raw. It's a shame it's getting review-bombed all over because it's truly a great game to play, even if you're not a fan of the story.
2984) TLOU2 has an interesting and complete story. It is a reasonable continuation of the story from part 1. I don't get why many people are mad at how they killed Joel. Joel is never a good guy. Ellie believed in the fireflies the whole life, but Joel took that away from her. I like Joel for his will and power to do what he believes is right, but that doesn't mean he should have a happy ending. As of Abby, I bet few even finished the second half of the game. She has a sophisticated and well-developed character. Not immediately likable, but deserves better than this wide criticism.
2985) This franchise has set a new standard for me in the future of gaming. No movie nor game has made me feel the way this game has. The exploration on each minute character tells their own story and you get to see that. Whether you're reading a note from a broken family or hearing your enemies scream in anguish as their closest friends since the outbreak just got slashed to death. To having to survive and killing any human, animal or infected to survive, you can really immersive yourself in it. The fluidity of the combat and the agility of your character is something I greatly valued in this game. The new ways of surviving and utilising the equipment you have at your disposal is very refreshing and strategic too. I couldn't of wanted more in a game, and I am keen to see where things go from here.
2986) A worthy successor to one of the best games ever made. I kept myself totally spoiler free and it was my most memorable gaming experience since part one. It’s a very rough ride, but well worth seeing to the end. It’s a mature game and I would not recommend it to anyone underage.,Anyway, highly recommended to give this an honest chance!
2987) A harrowing, emotional experience. Raises the bar for story telling and gameplay. The art direction, animation, cinematography and graphical fidelity are unsurpassed in the industry. A must play for anyone calling themselves a gamer, or anyone ready for a pure no excuses style story about redemption, heartache and the horrors of revenge, violence and PTSD.
2988) I want to thank Naughty Dog for this game.,- The story impressive - The close combat is great,- character and weapon upgrades are successful,Unlike many people, I liked the game's messaging,-Graphics are amazing again
2989) I am a huge fan of the first part and when I heard about the negatives about the second part I had to check it myself. I'm playing the new game + and I think it's the most brilliant action adventure game I've ever played. The story is completely understandable, the world in which the characters live is totally **** up. The choices they face every day are so extreme to us that they evoke extreme feelings. My grandfather was a veteran of World War II, he told me various stories without details. This game like no other shows that the order of the world in which we now live is very fragile. The current situation in the world shows that we cannot appreciate what we have. The message of this game is: dialogue, compassion and forgiveness.
2990) It is a masterpiece!!!!,this is the best game i have played !!!,I immediately apologize for possible errors, translated from Russian by translator.,I never write reviews on sites but right now I just can’t hold back ..,In general, this wave of hat in the plot due to the fact that the players do not understand the game, give them a soap movie ...,this is a game about harsh post-apocaleptic reality, where the issues of morality and survival are acute and you need to be prepared for this ..,the game is brilliant because it shows impartially all that cruelty and genuine feelings of the world of last of us !!,this is one of the few gamesshowing reality, with a crudely worked out dramatic plot and a very interesting world in which you plunge headlong ..,gameplay deserves special praise, naughty dog ​​surpassed themselves !!!,definitely the game of the year !!!,10/10/10/10/10/10/10
2991) It's just amazing game,and I think in a way better than the first one!almost Another experience..
2992) This is the best game I have played in my life, Everything is very beautiful and good, in my opinion is the same level of the first game,I loved this game
2993) This game is a masterpiece, and it’s ahead of our time. I really enjoy every step of the way
2994) just finished the game for the 2nd time last night and man am I still coming to grips with all the emotions I went through.,This story,it's dialogs and narration is masterfully done and will be studied in film and game design schools all over. As a game dev I am taking notes right now. This game is definitely for mature audiences and i don't mean just by age I mean by intellect and emotional development as well.,Apart form the story,voice and acting performances are just something far above what I have seen in video games.,The gameplay has evolved so impressively over the first game. Also the level design is really well done. Both stealth and full on rambo are viable options and you can mix it up nicely with the tools and weapons at your disposal. The wide-linear levels mean you have a variety of ways to navigate around and this game rewards exploration with notes that tell short but grounded stories and thicken the lore and man i loved the cards too.,Obviously being a ND game the visuals are beautiful..very artistic too. Love the foliage and water.,The sound work is also really good. Best game I have played,,,nah best game I have experienced ever. The rollercoaster of emotions was unlike anything I have experienced in any medium weather film,books or games. The rage for abby was real, the regret and disgust upon Mel's cxbcb was real, the love for alice was real, the comfort with dina was real, comradarie with lev and yara was real.. jesse's and owen's inherent goodness was real...heck on my 2nd playthrough on seattle day 1 playing as ellie the random wlf soldier complaining about burritos was real. Mindblown. The replayability is also good because of the gameplay,level design and lore that just thickens as you hear more convos, discover previously missed notes and damn those fun cards.,Must play. My GOTY.
2995) Best story game of a generation. Every element that I enjoyed from the first game has been improved in the sequel, it has the best graphics I’ve ever seen in a video game tied with god of war, exhilarating and tense gameplay yet simple in it’s application which gives the player so many choices in how to approach the game, whether that be all stealth, getting in gun fights or even running away is a sound tactic at times. But let’s get onto my favourite part of the game, the story. The game initially feels like it’s just going to be an average revenge story when Joel gets killed and at first I thought the early gameplay as Abby was just to heighten that moment but the game became so much more than just a revenge story. When I first started to play as Abby and I realised I had to play 3 days as her I was dubious because I hated her so much, however the more I played as Abby the more I empathised with her and saw her in a different light, so much so that a character I wanted dead 3 hours into the game I wanted her to live by the end of the game. By the end of the game I realised that both characters were on the same journey just at different points, Abby was seeking redemption for her transgressions and she found that in helping Lev and Yara. Ellie had not begun to redeem for her actions but her decision not to kill Abby was the first step in that process. I feel like this game is almost 3 games in one and that’s what makes it one of my favourite games I’ve ever played,
2996) The most powerful story I've played in 30-odd years of gaming.,,Ignore the incels and buy this game.
2997) One of best survival games. It is better to pass part 1 before playing this. I passed the game 2 on normal and aurvival difficulty and it was a lot of fun. Yes, it is brutal but life is brutal
2998) After the first Last of Us, I was expecting big things from Naughty Dog for the sequel and they delivered. I class this game as a work of art, from the phenomenal acting, to the fluid game play and storytelling. Little details, like enemies interacting with each other and sound traveling realistically, it is really impressive how much work was put into this experience. Highly recommend, definitely play the first and second games together.
2999) Best game i ever played in my life Sad to see joel gone but still best game i played nonetheless
3000) Man o man what a rollercoaster of emotions this game has been not just because of the story but also because of the gameplay..ufff..felt each kill. heart crack.brain drown in emotion...,Beautiful game, great gameplay stealth/action. customisable difficulty adds nice replayability ensuring 1st playthrough is very different from 2nd.,good acting,dialogs,visuals and sounds.,Very unexpected story and twists and turns. worth my money. hall of fame.,good job naughty dog.
3001) So good i love this because it has the best story of every games thanks for this game
3002) After playing The Last of Us Part II thoroughly for about 60hrs i can say this is a game without any sugarcoating whatsoever , things happen and situations are created as they should have in mist of chaos . with that being said i believe that the characters in those situations are not very likeable , in fact i personally didn't liked both the playable main characters . But that is the whole purpose of the game , to show how humans would possibly react in such hellhole of a place . The world is the real mess , which tends to create even more messedup scenarios .,,Apart from that Last of Us Part II feels true to its roots from beginning to very end , that is Hate , its a game about hatred , tension and pain which is depicted in every last bit of the game .,,This game is an absolute Showstopper . One of the best if not the best .,,Rating :- 10/10,Regards :- GhosTzXXz (PSN)
3003) Amazing game with very detailed and very dangerous beautiful world (I’m speaking about graphical side)! Main characters storyline is unforgivable, no black and white...,You should play and create your own judgement!,Perfect, thank to the team!
3004) To enjoy this game you have to be oppened to everything. Remember: they try to be realistic, so you'll find death everywhere.,,The story is good, they have forced the machine in some ways that might disconnect you from what's happening. Even so, you'll find the end rewarding if as I said, you're oppended to what's new.
3005) ****SPOLIERS****,I started the game without any knowledge of the leaks, yet from the moment I started playing Abby, I knew that she was the one who was going to kill Joel. With this feeling bugging me, I admit that I let her die more than a couple of times during her initial gameplay, and even more when we play her in Seattle. Hell, I thought there would even be an option to lose to Ellie in the theatre so I let Abby die in every scene just in case!,But after seeing her relationship with Lev develop after the theatre incident, their dynamic reminded me of Joel and Ellie. I still felt disdain for Abby, but I admit that she grew on me and that I enjoyed playing her character. ND made one of the boldest choices a game could, and man, it really paid off. But it’s not the only powerful choice of the game.,The last battle between Abby and Ellie was brutal, and while I had an easier time beating Abby up as Ellie than I had beating Ellie up as Abby, deep down I didn’t really want to kill her, especially after that flashback of Joel on the porch. It’s just insane to me that ND was able to elicit Ellie’s exact emotions in ME! The ending of letting Abby go was at first bitter - I felt salty that she had a better ending than Ellie. I felt heavy after playing the game, and had a harder time falling asleep. I thought about how there are things/emotions that I could still be holding onto that have the same destructive force as Abby’s and Ellie’s revenge, only internal instead of external. I thought about how our choices propagate to places we never expect them to. I thought about the freedom beyond being controlled by those regrets, and grief, and what it takes to achieve that freedom. I thought about how Joel’s choice to save Ellie was so so human, as was Ellie’s choice to spare Abby. The visual in my head of the former event was of the Chinese principle of Yang (the light with the darkness in it). Ellie’s arc reminded me of yin (the dark with the lightness in it). In a way, TLOU2 ended on a more hopeful note than the original one.,But after a night of reflection, that heaviness still wouldn’t go away. Maybe it’s something about myself I have to explore more. But I was really attached to Ellie, and wanted her to have her happy ending.,So I did my research, and I found that the writers were originally going to have Ellie pick Ollie up before she leaves, but felt that was too obvious.,And then I saw a theory about how Ellie had already visited Jackson and repaired her relationship with Dina. What supported it was Ellie’s change of clothes, the absence of her weapons, Dina’s bracelet on her arm (which wasn’t there when she left for Santa Barbara, and wasn’t in her backpack like Joel’s watch was).,Then I thought how cruel ND was for not making the happy ending more obvious! But I realized that my initial feelings toward the ending made TLOU2 more than a game for me. It made me look really deep down, and at least realize I have those dark sides too. It made me see how hard it was to deal with grief, and how that grief compels us to turn into people we don’t know. I believe TLOU2 was better than the first one for these reasons alone. The gameplay and the graphics just made this game more of a masterpiece. This game is a mirror to the player’s thought processes - it precisely elicits all of the feelings it sets out to, and the player is left to consolidate the intense emotions. If the player is able to do that, they see the depth of this game, if not, I think I understand where the hate comes from. But the beauty is not in if the player does so or not. It’s in how the player consolidates the emotions elicited. That how, gives the player a location of where they’re at in their emotional world. To me, that knowledge gave me what I was missing in my path to healing.
3006) I think the game is good as he'll. Can't wait to part 3. I want to see what happens to Abby, Lev, Tommy and Ellie
3007) A masterpiece! The more I think about it the more I realize that most of the things I thought I didn’t like about the game actually make sense now. The story is so original, intense, heartbreaking and beautiful. Yes, there are a few things I still don’t like or maybe I just can’t accept them. I can’t wait to play it again. TLoU is not just a game, it’s art!
3008) Beautiful game in both narrative, graphics and gameplay.,A lot of people who didn't play the game will hate on it, and some people did not like the story because it made them feel awful, while I think the greatest achievement of the game is to make you feel a certain way, it's a story based game, I recommend buying it 100%
3009) unlike any other game you have played, even the first one. a must play. putting a number on it seems pointless, but ten is where it lands. wonderful.
3010) We all take away something differently when thinking about games and their stories, and nothing captures this better than TLOU part 2. The journey Ellie goes on is one of the best and complex stories told in gaming. Whether it's the cut-scenes, the dialog during game play, the notes and their world building, the environmental storytelling. Everything has a purpose and no game has had me tear up this much since MGS3. Without going into spoilers, it's a game you need to play to fully understand the story and the journey Ellie and others go through.,,Game play wise, this is a step up from everything ND has done before. AI is on a completely different level, as they'll try to flank you, send dogs after you, call out their friends names when they go down, and throw the occasional Molotov after you. Going prone, and the dodge had always worried be in trailers, feeling gimmicky, but I can safely say they enhance combat to a whole new degree. Only critique on the game play aspect is leveling your abilities up. ND takes away choice and forces you to go down a skill tree, where you might have to buy a skill you don't want to get one you do want. It wouldn't be jarring, if TLOU1 gave you complete freedom on which skills you want.,,I shouldn't have to talk about graphics, it's a ND game, it's the best looking game you'll find on PS4. Every area is so detailed, and all enemies have distinct looking models.,,This game means more to me than a lot of games, and the more I think about it, the more I can call it not only my game of this gen, but my game of all time. Not only was this everything I wanted in a TLOU sequel, this is everything I've wanted in a game, the feelings I felt playing, can't be emulated in other games.
3011) It was great experience and storyline, I already want to play it again. Gameplay went up since the first game.
3012) I really liked this game. I finished last night after successfully avoiding all spoilers.  After playing the first game, I knew this would be grim - that did not disappoint.  I can understand why some are mad at the story, as it did not go the direction I (and I'm sure many others) did not anticipate.  Overall though, this game made me emphasise with players that I was reluctant to do so, however, it opened up the possibilities to experience a game with a concept I have never experienced before.  I look forward to playing this on New Game+.
3013) Please, don't listen to the bad reviews, this game is a masterpiece! Thank‘s naughty dog!!
3014) Absolute masterpiece. Ties into the first game perfectly and makes me feel things no game or movie has made me feel. I've never seen a story told this way. Not to mention the gameplay and visuals are incredible.
3015) I can only say good things about this game. It is without question the best game I’ve played. To see these characters evolve in a way with goes against the grain and to experience the trauma from both sides of the story is truly something that hits different. A game that turns your opinion from “I want to kill Abby I hate her” to “I love Abby she has been through so much” takes talent. Bravo Neil Druckman, bravo naughty dog, bravo everyone who was a part of making this game. I am eager to see what you have installed next!
3016) Truly one of the most interesting, engaging, heartbreaking and thought provoking games I've ever played.,People may dislike the story because it isn't exactly what they wanted from the sequel, but you don't always get what you want.,The game is beautiful, unbelievable that something like this could come from a 7 year old piece of hardware.,Gameplay is solid and satisfying.,I spent days after finishing the game thinking about the story and discussing with friends.,Do yourself a favor, play this game, open yourself up and you'll come out the other side a changed person.
3017) Goty. This is one of the best game I have ever played on PS4. Thank you ND.
3018) This game is incredible. Naughty Dog have really mastered the art of story telling in video games. The combat is very intense, and the gameplay is smooth and fun. I can see why people might not agree with the story choices, but at the end of the day it’s Naughty Dog’s story and they are free to do what they want. Easily one of my favorite games ever along with the first one.
3019) At least as good as the first one witch was an amazing experience. Can’t give this game enough praise!
3020) What an amazing game with such a strong story to tell! Naughty dog pulls no punches in setting the theme, playing with your emotions, and challenging your perspective. Make no mistake, this game tells the story of an epic tragedy void of heroes and villains, and full of rife and conflict, leading to an emotional payoff that teaches us the lesson that acts of evil resonate, but so do too, acts of kindness; and while these acts of evil or vengeance can be destructive, a single act of kindness can be the sole light that guides someone out of the darkness.
3021) When you're lost in the darkness look for the light,,I hate and admire. Masterpiece 10/10
3022) A perfect sequel full of emotions and twists, my heart is pumping, angry about what happened to Joel, loved the man, but that’s what life is. And Ellie :( daamn, felt sorry about her in every moment of the game. Abby was a perfect addition, wanted to slaughter her from the moment she killed Joel, but as i learned her story, she went through hell :(
3023) One of the best game I had ever played excellent story and gameplay, good characters and great way to tell the story
3024) Literally the best video game I’ve played. It’s an emotionally challenging story that has yet to be done by a video game. Not to mention the groundbreaking animation and gameplay. Hats off to Neil and the crew.
3025) Pros,Story - Despite what people are saying this is not a revenge story. It has some aspects of a revenge story line, but to call it that is simplistic at best. Ellie's part of this game is occurs mainly because of the scene between her and Joel on the porch after the party. This scene is her motivation more than Abby killing Joel. I think the Abby killing Joel in that manner was more for the player, and making the player want revenge. Ellie also has a happy ending despite what you might think. In the last scene at the farm she shows no emotion to the farm being empty because she knew it was. Quite a bit of time had passed between her last fight with Abby and that scene and she is fully healed an appears to be wearing the bracelet Dina gave her. She is actually coming from Jackson in that scene and has already made up with Dina by that point.,Joel and Tommy trusting the WLF group was not bad writing. Four years had passed between the first game and this one. They had been spending much of that time bringing people into the community. They had no reason to mistrust a group of kids that are not much older than Ellie.,Abby's story was mostly about the fact that killing Joel did not bring her peace or closure. Her story was much the same as Joel's story from part 1. Yes you can call this lazy writing, but the writers were trying to make us feel some empathy for her.,Graphics - Yeah...I think pretty much everyone agrees this is the best looking game on the PS4.,New Characters - All the new characters were great. Some the of WLFs were a little one dimensional, but they really seemed to flesh out Dina and Jesse, and of course Abby.,Character Development - Both main characters, Ellie and Abby, had great character development. I don't feel like ND undid anything from the first game in terms of Ellie's character. I do not believe they destroyed Joel's character or made him the villain. Ellie's development is really hard to get until the scene on the porch and it was brilliant for ND to put that scene near the end of the game.,,Neutral,Game play - The game play was pretty similar to part 1 with some added mechanics. i put it in neutral because there was nothing really groundbreaking here. I did like the fact they found a way to have you play the guitar with a controller though.,,Problematic,Story Structure -The structure of the story was a little problematic because there were flashbacks and the same story told from two different viewpoints. You can die in some of the flashbacks. For example when you go off as Ellie with Joel to find guitar strings you can die. Having Abby's 3 days come after Ellie's 3 days has a similar issue where you can die as Abby during this time even though you know she ends up at the theater. There could also be an issue with the way Lev gets up onto the balcony of the theater as Ellie could technically leave a bomb trap at the top of that ladder. I don't know if that changes anything if you do this, but either way if it's ignored there is an issue and if Lev gets blown up there is an issue. I guess Lev could see it and detonate it without getting hurt. It may have better to play day 1 as Ellie then day 1 and Abby and so forth. I do not believe playing Abby's part first would have been the correct way to go though.,,Tommy - I don't really like where Tommy ended in this. It would have been nice to see if he was able to move on or not.,,Abby killing Joel - I put this in the problematic because I think ND may have underestimated how much people would hate her for killing Joel especially the way it was done. This seemed to leave a lot of people in the mindset that they could never like or feel empathy for her. I don't know if this was a mistake, but since the second half of the game is set up to try and make you feel empathy for her I have to believe ND believed that people would despite her killing Joel, and that just didn't happen for some people because they their mind was just made up to hate her no matter what for killing Joel. Since the game is set up this way it seems to me ND did make a mistake here in not recognizing just how beloved Joel is. Of course they have stated the game would be divisive, but to me the 2nd half of the game contradicts that as they obviously were trying to get the player to sympathize with Abby.,,i gave the game 10/10 though because despite not being perfect it is still masterpiece. The story really sticks with you and I liked playing as Abby and I liked the choices they made on the characters and while I think the story would work better if it was structured differently it doesn't take away from the fact that the story was brilliant.
3026) Improves on every aspect of the original. It’s storytelling isn’t just remarkable “for a video game”,  it’s up there with the best on any media, definitely one for the ages. ND delivers once again.
3027) THE LAST OF US PART2 is a masterpiece and the best game I've ever played so far.
3028) One of my favorite gaming experiences ever. I'm so impressed with the risks they took with the story and with how well they pulled it off. The switch of perspective was jarring but despite the shock despite I ended up forming a strong connection with both characters. So all in all, I loved the story. The game play was super fun too, much improved from the repetitive nature of the first game. Visually it was gorgeous.
3029) This game has absolutely blew my mind in how well a story can be told within a game. The emotions that this game was able to bring out of me is a testament to Naughty Dog's ability at creating complex situations where characters' feelings, motivations, actions, and choices all feel true to those characters, not in a small way that is glimpsed over by the game, but with deep analysis that you the player get to partake in.
3030) Feels bad to see so many people not having enough IQ to understand this game
3031) One of the best games ever! Make your own opinion and don't believe the trolls. Naughty dog ​​created a masterpiece!
3032) This game is nothing short of a masterpiece. An emotional roller coaster ride from start to finish, this is one game that keeps you thinking long after the credits roll. Like its predecessor, it's beautiful yet brutal. The world is extremely detailed, visuals are simply breathtaking and the level design and combat are truly amazing. But what truly stands out, is the story that's unlike anything seen before, and the stellar performances by an extremely talented cast. A sequel done very right.
3033) Some of the best stealth action gameplay, amazing graphics, ran without issue on my 5 year old base PS4. Story is controversial game itself is a must play
3034) Best game I ever played. People are so pathetic who downvoted it before it even came out. Their fav character got killed so they throw a tantrum and cry. If you are a person with any self respect play this game for yourself and don’t listen to the pathetic losers who hate on it for no reason
3035) Writing this as a fan of TLOU I and someone who completed both games. TLOU II has its controversial moments, but overall the game is a masterpiece. As an experienced gamer, never before have I seen a level of detail like this, acting, story (main and hidden ones), and especially realistic and breathtaking combat. An absolute must-play: form your own opinion. Notice that most negative reviews are from people who could not physically finish the game: it takes way more than a couple days to complete the story.
3036) You must have an open mind for enjoying the story, but the gamelan and graphics are perfect.
3037) Countless jaw-dropping emotional moments. The best facial expressions and acting I’ve ever seen in a game. Simply put, a masterpiece.
3038) I don’t understand the hate, well...kinda people were mad from the beginning and most of them haven’t played it. Just read the leaks and hated it. Game was absolutely FANTASTIC.,Just wish if it was longer or had a DLC for what happens after.
3039) Gameplay: Super fun all the way through,Graphics: Among the best of all time,Story: The most engaged I've been in a game since The Last of Us,,There are no politics at play in this game whatsoever, so go ahead and ignore any review stating that The Last of Us 2 is somehow politically motivated or forced to be politically correct. It's a story about love and hate– unfortunately, to many misguided people, love is somehow political, and a warning against hate is interpreted as "wokeness". Also, many people struggling with the idea of being told a linear narrative-based story rather than being given the option to change the outcome. That's not a critique of the game, that's a critique of storytelling in it of itself, and represents a terrible ability to take in new ideas and information. The Last of Us 2 is a brilliant game containing a powerful story that takes maturity to digest, hence its M rating. Maybe the thousands of manchildren bombing this game should stick to games more in their mental territory.
3040) I think this game has a powerful and impactful storyline. It's very hard to move on after finished the game. And of course because it's so sad and depressed. This game succeed to bring emotional feeling when you play it. The only thing i don't really like is when you've to play Abby in a long time. But this game still masterpiece!
3041) If you really love a game, you appreciate it! But do not criticize it, because its history and its development is very good, you must play it before speaking.
3042) I guess video games are still just for little boys, considering the reaction of the anti-SJW woke scolds.  You people are the biggest hypocrites in the world; if something doesn't 100% pander to you, you whine about it a million times worse than any "woke" person.  Just die somewhere.
3043) The Last Of Us Part II is a very controversial game. The Gameplay along with fluent animations, makes this game a spectacle to play. The Story is Bering moving and sends an important message that revenge does always provide closure.
3044) Atmosphäre, Story, world building, Grafik alles 10 von 10. Muss man mitnehmen
3045) Best game of all time. The story is absolutely incredible, there’s twists, it’s heartbreaking, the themes are deep, the flashbacks are amazing. I could go on and on but I’ve never felt so emotionally affected by a game or even another piece of media. Joel dying so early was gut wrenching but set the game up so well. Even with that I actually grew attached to Abby who was a very complex and well written character. All the side characters were also amazing and unique. Besides the story the game looks mind blowing, the fear factor is fantastic and makes you feel vulnerable and like you’re just trying to survive. The combat is extensive and offers lots of variety, gameplay is extremely smooth and satisfying. This easily goes down as my number 1 game of all time and it will take something special to top this. I get why people hate on it because a lot of the story is very controversial and hard to stomach. But if you go in with an open mind and challenge yourself to really understand the characters it will make it a hell of a journey. I applaud Naughty Dog for making such bold decisions as it created a truly remarkable experience.
3046) Masterpiece.Simply sensational. Adding Abby as a playable character was a huge gamble that Naughty Dog handled in an incredible way. All the characters, even the secondary ones, are gorgeous and real, everyone travels to complete their goal. All accompanied by a sensational story telling and worthy of the successor of one of the video games that marked history
3047) WOW !!!,It is a fantastic game, it has transmitted a thousand emotions. The plot is much more complex than the first chapter which makes it a game not suitable for everyone. Graphically it is spectacular, every single ravine has blown me away. The music made me goosebumps.,In short, overall wonderful, a game genre that unfortunately is not seen every year. Naughty dog ​​has dropped a bomb and many video solidarity houses can only admire and try to do the same. This game has remained in my heart like no one ever.,The actors have been nothing short of,fantastic.,I love you Naughty dog, good job.
3048) Honestly, I felt just as uncertain about this game as most people, and I let myself get driven by all the review bombing. But after the 30 hour experience The Last Of Us Part II was for me, I can say that everything the community is thrashing the game for is complete and unjustified nonsense. Some points may be valid, after all, art is subjective. But people are seemingly not looking at this game objectively, they are pissed and blinded by emotion, but TLOU II is not bad at all, the gameplay is so detailed and well done, you won´t find a better looking game on ps4. It is fun. But the real issue here is the story. If you haven´t played this game yet I truly invite you to do it, don't get on the hate wagon just because. And if you have played it, I invite to do so again, but don´t be so simple about it, try to look at the bigger picture, look at the character motivations, the build up to the major events. Remember, the plot might be revenge, but that is NOT what the story is about. Overall, one of the greatest games I have ever played.
3049) The Last of Us Part II is the Apocalypse Now of video games. Some people just aren't ready for that. A powerful journey that addresses the conflicting nature of perspective(s) and reality - and how two seemingly valid perspectives can clash, violently, if one is unable to see beyond himself.,This game, like the first one, will become a cult classic, transcending its value as a mere mainstream entertainment object, and becoming a true cultural event. The noise of fake outrage will die down. The Last of Us Part II will endure and survive. To be played with an open mind by unbiased, unpolluted gamers, with love for good storytelling and powerful emotions. Truly a masterpiece.
3050) Best Game Ever Released On Ps4 Don't Let Hate Get You Play And See. Naughtydog Has Done It Again.
3051) The best game of all time. The GOAT of the videogames.,Incredible story, incredible graphics, incredible cinematics, all perfect
3052) The first installment naughty dog gave us into this universe was nearly perfect masterpiece of story telling and character development. It delivered a cinematic game in a way that gave you everything you wanted in a story in a way where sometimes what isn’t said is more important than what is. While part one gave players exactly everything we wanted TLOU2 did exactly the opposite. And while at first that statement seems very negative give me a second to explain. TLOU2 mastered the ability to continue an amazing and immersive story line while giving us everything I didn’t want and it did so beautifully, and tragically. At the end of part1 I didn’t want Ellie and Joel’s relationship to continue to unravel and be strained. But it did wonderfully. I love Joel and I didn’t want him to die in the first act, but he did tragically. I didn’t want to watch my favorite video game characters Ellie slowly lose her morality and spiral into the darkness, but every scene I was force to watch it as a slow motion train wreck. I hated Abby for killing Joel, I didn’t want to know her reasoning, but I had to in order to understand she’s the moral anchor. I didn’t want to play as Abby as we brutally beat up Ellie and everything in me just wanted the fight to end. But I needed to see it. I didn’t want Ellie to lose everything in the end, but in this world there isn’t happy endings. This world is dark and brutal and in the end.. that’s what it is.. just..the end. It can never be a fairy tail ending when the first part set the theme. People are monsters. So as the first part gave me everything I wanted. TLOU2 gave me everything I didn’t want, and did so beautifully and wonderfully. My favorite game... ever?
3053) The game is just wonderful, beautiful, the way they drive you to their story is amazing, the graphics, the soundtrack, the story, everything is beautiful, the end of the game it’s sometimes that make you feel empty, because Dina is gone, and you (Elli) realise that the vengeance was something wrong, and the fact that Elli forgives Abby is beautiful, because, if she would done murdered Abby, this child, Lev, would done the same that Abby did, because he wants to revenge from Elli. But she didn’t because she understood that it was something wrong and Joel will wanted that for Elli, that she understand that vengeance is wrong, and it’s horrible. So yes, in my opinion, the las of us ll deserves that 10 :)
3054) the game is incredible the themes portrayed in it like post traumatic stress, social inclusion ...,the story is very good seeing both sides of the plot makes the experience even more crazy I see a lot of people complaining about the death of joel and the lack of victory but if ellie killed abby the game would be very predictable and riamacabar making several improper sequences to story i think that due to the simple fact that the game arouses anger or anxiety in the public it is already a good game, many games try to bring honor to the death of a person but the death of joel was the most real possible for the game universe
3055) Poor little kids couldn't understand the story, so they scream that the game is trash XD,All I can say is that I enjoyed gameplay and the story from the beginning to the very end.,If you are open minded person, who understands that life isn't all about good stuff only, then I can assure you that you will enjoy the game either.
3056) Amazing game. Graphics are stunning and the gameplay is brutally tense. It may not be for everyone, but I found the story to be harrowing, heartbreaking and poignant. Features incredible performances from the cast. It has stuck with me for days since completing it.
3057) People still don't understand that this game is real life bruh, these are things that people do when they are lost, angry, sad, scared u know? Like they dont think  fully and thats why they end up doing things that they realise are wrong to do,  and thats why i think this is the most realistic game ever, and im not talking abt the graffics, it reflects life perfect
3058) One of the best games I've ever played. Amazing characters, story.... Everything! I've loved this game. Thanks Naughty Dog. A true art!
3059) It is a masterpiece! I don’t understand the people who criticize this game, they just did not understand the hidden meaning of the second part. The graphics, the gameplay at the height is probably the only minus of the game is the frequent pauses in the dialogs, well, it was possible to make a slightly interesting process of lutting. And there is no more claim to the game.
3060) Almost perfect. Absolute must play. Amazing. This is the game of a generation, it deeply affected me.
3061) Fantastic game. Completly different but so f....... cool. ♥ One of the best games ever Made, yet.
3062) Simply sensational. Adding Abby as a playable character was a huge gamble that Naughty Dog handled in an incredible way. All the characters, even the secondary ones, are gorgeous and real, everyone travels to complete their goal. All accompanied by a sensational story telling and worthy of the successor of one of the video games that marked history.
3063) F*ck haters) I love this game, this story and these characters!) be constructive)
3064) An absolute master class in gaming. The story the characters the atmosphere is fantastic. I played spoiler free and it was a ride start to finish. The game definitely has some uncomfortable viewing but it makes you feel for the characters. Some of the pacing won't be to everyone's tastes and aspects of the story people disagreed with . I personally loved the narrative and felt it represents what the characters went through and consequences for actions taken within the game universe.,,You are doing yourself a disservice for not playing this game based on review bombs and spoilers leaks .  Don't miss out on game of the year!
3065) Was worried about all the negatives reviews, but the story did get me hooked and I understood what they wanted to do making you play Abby AFTER playing with Ellie, understanding the motives after the “bad actions” took place. Great game!
3066) This is awesome thx Neil for this game.The story is not that bad.I liked it.I think the greatest game that i have ever seen
3067) The barrage of red numbers breaks my heart, for art was not designed to be spot on. Art was made to make the individual think, contort in uncomfortable stupor, and gasp in awe.,,While I understand games are not TV shows, games are not primarily stories aiming at showcasing a disastrous world that can perhaps divide an audience, The Last of Us II is a game that does just that. As an aspiring writer, I always think of taking risks with storytelling, but I worry that my audience will not respect my choices. While I know I love my characters, do they ultimately belong to me, or the people who read?,,The Last of Us II is phenomenal for me because it makes me uncomfortable to live in my own skin; I had to constantly look over my shoulder while playing this game, I felt like I was in trouble, and watching Joel's death did a number on my mental health, but while this made me angry, while this made me hate the game, I trod on. I felt Ellie's pain, I felt the discomfort that crept in Dina's mind when watching the woman she loved make such decisions, I felt these character's ideologies being spat at on their face because the world that they live in was not kind. We knew this starting from Sarah's death in the first game, this world was anything but kind, but this game showed us just how monstrous.,,While I did not entirely enjoy playing as Abby, some of the best gameplay of the entire game was in her play through. I understand the need to hate on her, because GOD I hated her, and I not sympathise with her, and I understand that ND failed there to induce any sort of sympathy in my mind for her being, but I could not deny her existence. Abby existed in the world Joel did, and what Joel did to her was enough to have him killed, even though the way he died was just downright brutal. I jumped out of my skin while fighting the Rat King, I hated any part that displayed Abby's kindness, because who was she and why the heck did she have to be kind? She had no right after what she did to Joel. And by the time I could get accustomed to playing her, as if I were in a limbo and weren't playing The Last of Us 2 at all, I am forced to fight Ellie. I am nauseous by now, my ears were ringing, my hands were trembling and my temptation to see Ellie kill Abby was so tumultuous that I actually let it happen a couple of times, just to see it end.,,But then we begin to play as Ellie. Ellie's living with her trauma, but is she really living? She can't forget the images Abby left behind for her, she can't forget what happened to Joel. Obviously, she goes after Abby. Obviously, she finds her after immense struggle, and quite practically leaving behind everything she could have loved. The image Abby left behind for her, Joel's dying form, keeps ringing in her mind, ringing in MY mind. I will kill Abby when I find her and man, how satisfying it'll be.,,But we find Abby. We find her, but she's not Abby. She's a shell of who she was, lost everything and the look of pathetic desperation in her eye. I am awed, disgusted, and I know what's coming. I am praying in my mind, 'No, Ellie, it's not worth it, don't kill her', and I say 'It's not worth it', because Abby is no longer a threat. Abby is a dot in the scheme of existence itself, Abby is dead. Abby is gone. But, we fight her and my goodness, what a troubling experience that was. Neither one want's to fight, while both are struggling to live. Tired of having merely survived all these months.,,The image of what Abby left behind, Joel's dying corpse, is now replaced by the image Joel left behind. A loving man, drinking coffee too late in the night, playing his guitar. He is soft here, because given the chance, he would have always been, and he is proud of Ellie, because when was he not? Killing Abby the way she is would ridicule the very life a man like Joel had lived.,,The game was heartbreaking because the emotions were spilling out. I did not like Abby, but playing as her made me sympathise with Ellie more. Playing as Abby made me understand that the world is not black and white, but shades of grey plastered over the horizon in uncomfortable shades, shades meant to push and pull, make your mind ebb and flow with the current this game chose to flow with. I am thrilled to say I loved this game, loved every second, while I wasn't too sure while playing it. For the mere fact that it destroyed my psyche, I think the Last of Us II is a masterful genius in its genre, and while the hate breaks my heart, I think it is not a game meant to be enjoyed by everyone.
3068) Amazing game, a true masterpiece ... but you have to stop and think. The game’s story of hate, revenge and redemption is even mirrored in the first game’s fanbase ... just check the 0-rated reviews. Can we save ourselves and not only Ellie?
3069) Gameplay is a bloodied brilliance and shows awesome perspectives that would otherwise be ignored. Nothing quite like pursuing a justified yet irrational revenge killing from both sides of the story. It's a shame there's so many people who can't appreciate that or accept that when faced with death and rage, people do rash things. One of my favorites now, for sure.
3070) It's a game that will leave you thinking a long time afterwards. It has the best story telling in a game I have ever seen. It also builds up tension more than any other game.
3071) Perfect emotional beats, i'm so sad but what a journey it was, it effected me more than any other story in a video game. Bring on Part III
3072) Masterpiece. Game of generation. Unjustly undervalued by users. Thank you Naughty Dog.
3073) Loved the character direction and how the game centered around revenge. Excellent writing and gameplay. The graphics were out of this world too.
3074) This game is a masterpiece. In the game characters has the things that must be done, but must be stopped. In this situation, we can experience extreme suspense and conflict. We are survivors in the game. No supplies are found easily and nothing is enough. It makes every action is risk a shortage, and every moves matter.
3075) I don't know what to say, it's just amazing. I love this game and the characters, well done
3076) I love the game, you just have to be very thorough and pay attention to the details, that helped me a lot.
3077) The only reason people don't like this game is because they lack the emotional maturity to deal with the themes and are victims of the tribalism that permeates the world of the last of us.
3078) One of the most impressive games and stories that I've seen for all my 30 years of game experience.,Thank you the Naughty Dog team for all that you have done for the game industry and us.
3079) Last Of Us- Part 2; An interpretation.,,Last Of Us 2 has been an incredibly divisive game. Some loved it and some hated it. I am in the former category. To me, it is the greatest PS4 exclusive, tied with God Of War(two extremely incomparable games). Seeing many negative reviews all around the internet, I felt like I should voice my thoughts too.,,I am completely neglecting the negative reviews because of the homophobia and misogyny, because any time spent entertaining those thoughts(including typing out this sentence) is a waste of my time.,,And I guess I don’t need to speak about the gameplay, graphics and the horror(gameplay horror) of the game, coz that is almost unanimously agreed as stellar.,,The main criticism about the story was that it was ‘pointless’, and ‘unnecessary’ in many players’ eyes. I read many people saying, the story was ‘all for nothing’ at the end, when she forgave Abby.  Some loved what happened, and some hated it.,,We must begin by asking ourselves the question- “What is the story of The Last Of Us 2”,,If the answer is- “When Joel was brutally murdered by members of an organisation, led by Abby, in front of the eyes of Ellie, she seeks vengeance and to rain down agony on everyone responsible”, I think you got the answer wrong. That, I believe, is the plot of the game, not the story. And that is where, this transcends to above anything we have ever seen in this industry.,Let’s take Last Of Us(1). The plot is- “following and outbreak that rendered much of the population top be zombie like creatures, the protagonist Joel, must take an apparently immune child, to an organisation to develop a vaccine for the disease”. But what was the story that you took, away? It was about a father, trying desperately to right a wrong from his past. Ask any parent, and it is very likely that they consider “protecting their child” to be the most important duty in their life. Joel would've been no different either. But he failed very early, when his beautiful daughter, Sarah, died in his arms, terrified and defenceless. He is a hardened man weighed down by this pain. When he travelled across the country taking care of this little, foul mouthed girl, deep inside, he was in some ways seeing his own daughter there. When he first thought she was in danger, he ignored the excruciating pain he was under and rushed to save her. And when it meant that potentially saving the world would mean, letting her die, he could not go through with it. He failed his daughter once, but he cannot do it again.,,Last Of Us Part 2, has a similar tale to it. On the surface, it seems that Ellie is driven by the anger towards Abby and the rest of the WLF crew. Her fuel was the raging vengeance, one might think. But I think the flashback scenes prove that it was different. She was driven by anger, surely, but it was not towards Abby and WLF. It was towards Ellie herself. Just like Joel felt like he failed Sarah in Part 1, Ellie feels that she failed Joel, when she was not there to save him. Or worse, she feels that Joel died thinking that Ellie hated him. For taking away the meaning of her life. Deep inside, even she knew that she meant a lot to the man and she meant a lot to her. Enough for a lifetime. Her journey through the game, was her over circles of hell, that she put herself through.,,Then we have Abby. A girl who saw hope for a second, when everything was taken away from her by a mad man. She has not known peace since then. Her nightmares were filled with those memories and she had no escape. When she finally found him, she unleashed all her anger on to him, hoping for an escape. But she did not find it. Until, she tried to make more of her life. By fighting with everything she got, trying to save a boy and girl, whom she was trained to kill. It is there, that she was close to finding peace. But again, it was shattered when this girl came out of nowhere and killed almost everyone dear to her. But this time, she chose forgiveness, because she knew that therein lies true freedom.,,With this, we reach the final act, where we find these two incredibly complex characters, battling it all out. This is where Ellie REALLY sees herself, Abby and Lev. The woman dying Ellie’s clutches was none other than Joel himself and the little boy dying in the boat, was Ellie herself. This crushing realisation pulled back Ellie to stop this chain of hate.,In the epilogue of the story, we see a final memory of Ellie and Joel trying to mend the broken relationship. Was it a real memory, or an imagination by Ellie? Her wish to believe that he knew, that whatever happened, she could never hate Joel? That he will always be like a father to her? Whatever it was, that brought peace to Ellie.,This is what I take back from the story. If this interpretation intrigues you in anyway(lovers and haters of the game), please do try to play it again. See if it means more to you, this time around.
3080) I was moved by this game！I love this game！！The game made me experience a different experience！！
3081) Good game. Great plot. 8/10 minus the ball for feminism and minus the ball for LGBT. I put 10 because of unreasonable 0 and 1
3082) This game is beautiful, both visually and narratively. It will break your heart and have you follow the character's grief and anger. I loved it and began replaying it a few days after I first finished it.
3083) Naughty Dog spent several years on this game, with two delays, the time put into this game is reflected in the gameplay, the story-line is not repetitive, there are no tedious tasks, the game puts alot of emotion within it, which I appreciate. This is a game which you cannot watch on a Youtube/twitch stream, it needs to be played. I recently played through all 4 uncharted games, and replayed the last of us Part 1, to refresh my memory. I can honestly say Naughty dog has outdone themselves. I am sad to see the toxic culture of the gaming community base the quality of the game, on their beliefs on what is acceptable in society.,,I did not rush through this game, it took me about 10 days to play, so after each session of playing I could actually digest what the hell had just happened, there remains alot to question in terms of the story line, but the biggest questions are answered, why, what when and who. I myself would love to see a third, heck even a fourth.,,All in all, I recommend this game to those who seek to play it, and those who are familiar with story driven games.
3084) This was an experience that will stick with me for life. i counted the days to the release of this game and it was worth every second. with some totally understandable divisiveness, this game has done things that no other game has been able to do. Naughty Dog have managed to make a game that made me feel grief, terror, heartbreak, happiness and i came out of it feeling totally drained in the best way possible. This much emotion tied with some of the most entertaining gameplay in years makes this one of my favorite games of all time. Congratulations to the whole team. be proud.
3085) The most beautiful and emotional game of the decade, loved every minute of it!
3086) Dare I say that I enjoyed this more than Pt.I Not only is it a work of art, it is raising the bar for everything which comes after it and elevates the whole medium to the next level. It is an accomplishment. In a sea of “Avengers” this is “Taxi Driver”. Of course it‘s not perfect. It opens itself to criticism. But it is done with a bold and unapologetic vision and with artistic integrity and for this alone it needs to be commended. Not everyone might like it for different reasons but it just needs to be clear that this is a major milestone for the whole industry.
3087) The story is so well thought out. I enjoyed the parallels between both the first game and Part 2. What happened to Joel was was happened to Sarah in the first game except now it was someone we loved that we lost. Joel is far from perfect and we see that Ellie is no different and it takes a lot before she realises that she has to let something go otherwise it will drive her to madness. It happened right at the end before that realisation came and we had to witness it and it makes you realise that you yourself have gotten caught up in the idea of revenge that it's disappointing to not see Abby get what she deserves. Even after learning her reasoning behind killing Joel. That's life and it sucks. Sometimes you have to just let it go.,The gameplay is much improved from the first game and the combat and inventory management is so much better. The world itself feels fuller and the infected are somehow even scarier. I think the Audio in the game is amazing and it helps make it more scarier.,Playing as Abby is very jarring, especially once you get to Ellie. So much confliction. I can't wait for my second playthrough.
3088) Game and graphics is just one of the best things I've ever seen In my life (and I'm a Pc player), you can kill an enemy and watch his face while you're staving a knife over him (THAT kind of detail).,,About the plot, I didn't care too much about what people said that game is just made to make LGTBI happy and all that.... you don't really care too much about that when you are enjoying yourself killing and surviving with Ellie or even Abby. Story is very well written but is an adult and kind of sad story (as one of the best movies you've seen)... Naugthy Dog made one of a hell violent game but with a price... so they decided to make players think about deep stuff as revenge... or losing someone special.,,10/10 for me , Ellie is one of the most human characters you can find out there.,And if you don't like the plot it's still lot of fun to play
3089) One of the best games of this generation !!! Starting from gameplay to story telling they managed to surpass once again my expectations! Well done Naughty Dog.
3090) One of the best stories I’ve ever played. Gameplay is fun too. I feel for those who are upset about an important character’s death, but think the story rides that death so well to make an amazing game. Getting to see the reality that “the bad guy” (Abby) is facing through playing as her really blew my mind. I’ve never played a game that did something like this. I obviously was a little upset with playing as Abby at first, but I learned that she was a human too living through her own experiences with love and loss. In the fights between Abby and Ellie I really couldn’t choose a side, and at the end when I was tapping square to stab Abby I had a hard time doing it. It’s all quite bleak, but an interesting look at the reality of humans and their quests for vengeance. I respect the opinions of people hating on this game, but If the queer themes get to you I recommend trying to be more empathetic. If these themes ruin the game for you you’re probably a bigot who can’t look past people loving each other or being who they want to be.
3091) Say what you want about the story... but there is no denying the fact that all other aspects of the game are bar none amazing and excellent in their own way.
3092) Masterpiece! I'm still crying! Abby is queen.. Ellie is queen...,Lev is King...,RIP Yara!
3093) I really love this game.  I love Abby and ideas of this game. I totally recommend everyone to play that game before putting your score here.
3094) SPOILERS AHEAD,,Its been a long, long time since any piece of entertainment made me think about my own feelings in the way TLOU2 has. I can't say that I'll ever forgive Abby completely for what she did. But I can say that I understand her, and that I wished for her to overcome her pain. I think this story will grow on people over time as they come to terms with Joel's death. Like Ellie, we may not ever forgive those who have wronged us, but we can find a way to escape our own anger.,,As expected from Naughty Dog, the game is a technical, artistic and audible masterpiece. Even though the PS5 is coming to us very soon, I expect that the bar set in this game will take a long time to raise.
3095) A masterpiece on so many levels, pushing the console to its technical limits and pushing its players to their own moral and emotional limits.
3096) This game perfectly captured how to write a morally gray character, the parallels between Abby and Ellie completely went over peoples heads. People wanted a 'happy' story where Joel and Ellie just killed 'bad' guys and zombies without an repercussions but instead we got this masterpiece. Play this game and form an opinion for yourself, don't listen to angry 'gamers' who didn't get the story they wanted, it wasn't their story to tell.
3097) By far the most thrilling game of this generation.  It is at least equal to the predecessor, if not even more gripping and emotional.  Compassion is required here, as well as looking at things from different perspectives.  It is understandable that this does not meet with mutual love.  What is incomprehensible is that hate speech about the developers and artists behind this or any other piece of art breaks down. Here artistic freedom clearly applies.  That not everyone likes it is perfectly fine.  But insulting artists for your art is absolutely wrong. I have great respect for the performance of Naugty Dog and everyone involved in what has been created here.  Thanks a lot for this!
3098) this game is simply surreal! it shapes all the feelings inside you, you feel like you're in the skin of the characters, living all the stories and it's impossible not to be moved! a game that takes you off the axis, shows you that life still has its nuances even after the end of "normality"! surreal, divine and incredible! Nothing will beat the last of us II
3099) Amazing Game! Don't believe the review bomb! Play the game yourself and build your own opinion on the game!
3100) Beautiful environments, great mechanics and an interesting story that will make you rethink your position on character development and personal morality. Should be a 8-9 out of 10 but since the majority of negative reviews were allowed on day one of release before the game could even be completed I am giving it a 10, just to slightly offset. Don’t let people that were upset they didn’t get their way or are just outright bigots dissuade you away from a great game.
3101) The greatest game of this year! T.y.Naughty dog for this. Good story plus awesome design!
3102) very elent saying but also very good,and I agree with the director but I don’t either,common sense should not be hated
3103) This is a game you should play, even if you dont like the story this is a must play. Graphics and detail in this game are top notch.
3104) This game is just as good, if not better than the first. Don't listen to the reviews from people who are upset about the story. The first game's story was just as sad and Judy as happy at the same time. The game is well-polished, gameplay is very similar to Part I, with some new mechanics added and new infected. I had a blast playing and Will soon play again. If you have some doubts about the game, please waaaaaatch some gameplay rather than listen to these reviews that have been brigaded by cringe gamers from Reddit.
3105) Amazing gameplay.,Waiting multiplayer.,Greatest graphics.,Good Story, But not incridible.
3106) This game is a Masterpiece. The work that went into creating and caring for even the smallest of detail is staggering. The characters are in a class of their own and the story is both engaging and thought-provoking.
3107) in 10 years a lot of people will understand to have been really stupid for had criticized this game
3108) Gameplay is just superb..do intense and well animated. both stealth and combat mechanics are really well done. This is further complemented by the levels themselves being big and having multiple branching routes and secret or hidden locations. This games rewards exploration of it's environment and combat mechanics.,The audio and soundtrack and the guitar were really well done.,I really liked the story and i am glad the story was narrated the way it was..not knowing any of the wlf while playing as ellie made me much more brutal towards them just like ellie was. And then understanding abby and wlf and scars and owen,mel,lev,yara really made me see that nobody is right and all are just a product of their environments. The end really stood out. This game is poetic.,Also such lush environments and visuals.,Currently on  my 2nd playthrough. Appreciating the masterpiece that this is.
3109) i just finished this game 2 days ago and all i could say is.. what a masterpiece . its the best game i have ever play on the PS4,,i could understand some people really hate it becuase they killed their fav guy. But dont listen to haters. just play it yourself
3110) I really liked the game, different from the first part, I would have liked to impersonate even a little Joel but, outside of this an excellent game with a studied and well detailed plot!
3111) I more than loved this game. The first was, for me, the best PS3 game and the second that of the PS4.,,Before talking about the story, it's worth talking about the graphics, the gameplay ...,This game is very immersive, killing an enemy and hearing his companions yelling his name makes it very real, the moments of "hide and seek" where discretion is a real advantage in front of his enemy. I found it all very logical and real again. Depending on your level of difficulty, the adventure takes on a different meaning. I played as a survivor and it was very complex!,,The story is full of incredible subtlety and detail. I was lucky not to have been spoiled, Joël's death was very hard because I did not expect it at all. I must admit that I was crying at that time, the actors did an incredible job.,,It was at this precise moment when I felt a pain comparable to that of Ellie and a desire for revenge to be satisfied. Throughout history, Ellie maintains a notebook that can help us better understand how she feels, which is very useful.,Her relationship with Dina is sweet and authentic, I really appreciated it. Much less appreciated than seeing Ellie sink into darkness, as with Nora's torture. For me, from the time Joel died, Ellie died inside too. PTSD. Killing a pregnant woman was the last hammer blow, driving it into darkness.,,And here is the big moment: Abby finds Ellie. And something I didn't expect either, we end up playing Abby. I was disgusted, I didn't want to play this character who had killed one of the characters who had touched me the most in any work. And yet, getting to know it, understanding its feeling of revenge humanizes it and we are "forced" to appreciate it a minimum.,We are all someone's bad guy depending on where we stand.,I can't say I loved this character, let's say more than I accepted her. I found a form of symbolism between her and Lev, like a feeling of seeing the beginnings of the relationship between Joel and Ellie.,,Then here is the big moment, the confrontation between Ellie and Abby but from Abby's point of view. Big shock for me, I expected to be Ellie for this fight which pushed me to do things which I did not want. I had never felt a feeling comparable to this during a game, literally I refused to do that! The fight ends, Abby spares Ellie thanks to Lev.,,And finally a moment of peace and sweetness, Ellie marrying Dina's dream of having a farm and living away from all her problems. Except that the shadow of the PTSD still hangs over Ellie and Tommy did not help her having lost everything and now became thirsty for revenge.,I was against this decision, to see her leave her family, wife, child and her existing happiness for a quest for revenge. I was against but ... What if it was my father who had been tortured? I don't know what I would have done.,,So here we are in Santa Barbara. Abby and Lev kidnapped by slavers and Ellie on his tracks.,Ellie finds herself in a calamitous state in this last quest for revenge, open deep in the belly, emaciated ... She even wonders about her death, perhaps imminent. Thanks again to the notebook.,,The beach, Abby unrecognizable ... Ellie blinded by his revenge demands a last fight.,I also didn't want to fight, feeling pity for Abby and finally for Ellie. And it is there, in a last moment of rage that Ellie sees her last moment with Joel. It all makes sense and Ellie releases Abby and lets her go with Lev. Killing Abby would have destroyed Ellie even more, or at least the little humanity she has left.,,This quest for revenge will have lost everything Ellie had. Dina and JJ left the farm and Ellie lost two fingers, she can no longer play the guitar. The guitar representing his link with Joël. A last flashback, a sublime moment that moved me to tears. She was going to forgive him, she had started to forgive him. But in an apocalyptic world (or not ...) death is everywhere and nobody is safe. Popular video game character or not.,,The end is sad, I had a hard time getting over it. As if emptied by this adventure. Again, I didn't expect such a sad ending for Ellie. She who was so afraid of being abandoned alone, it is her actions that will make her be.,,What an incredible game, everything is sublime and well constructed. This story is a wonderful experience.,I have never felt emotions comparable to those that I felt during these 28 hours of play.,The details add so much depth to the story.,,For me, as for its predecessor: it is a masterpiece.,,I hope to be able to play a third game one day, bringing a conclusion to this license.
3112) I understand if the direction the story took wasn't what you were expecting, or wanted. But it wasn't your story to tell. It was Naughty Dog and their characters. I think it was a painful, but amazing journey they took us on. It wasn't what I wanted for the characters but thats what separates good fiction from bad, in my opinion. This game is amazing and you should experience it without being clouded by all the negativity.
3113) The last of us 2 took me to a place a game never took me before. It gave me all the feels. I enjoyed every second of it. I highly recommend it to everyone prepared for a mature and intense experience.
3114) I love this game ❤️.  I like the way heroes open up.  I like the way my attitude towards them changes.  I like the way my feelings for each of them change.  I think it's a story about pain and loss, a story about disappointment and rebirth.  There's no antagonist and no protagonist in history.  Both heroines represent the best and the worst, both for themselves and for each other.  And it's delightful.
3115) This game is a masterpiece! It makes you change your perspective throughout the game, it's a surreal experience. Nothing like you'd find on any other media platform. Don't let anyone fool you, play it yourself.
3116) Well done team. All the hate is undeserved. It’s an incredible story that tugs and pulls your heart in every direction. Prepare yourself for a roller coaster before you jump in.
3117) I won't talk about the incel discusion of the gender of characters in the game but i've seen people complaining about the end. It's not suposed to be nice or fullfill your revenge desires, it's just like a movie, a good one.,Technically speaking the game is just flawless, perfect. The middle level might be a bit easy if you've played a lot but is just a matter of changing dificulty.
3118) As the game began, I was hit with immediate nostalgia when I saw Ellie. The snowball fight while being a tutorial was also a welcome introduction to Dina. I knew nothing about this game and I was able to soak it in. My mind was coming up with theories left and right and then when we first switch over to Abby as she’s talking to Owen I immediately went to “oh **** These are fireflies “ When IT happened I gasped and felt outraged. Pure hatred toward the WLF, but with the outrage also a slight bit of understanding. Abby saved Ellie. She didn’t have to, but she realized after delivering the killing blow that she didn’t get the satisfaction she wanted. She stopped herself. The game escalated quickly from there into a pure revenge story. Once we hit Seattle and got the stack of photos, I thought it would open up into a free form murder quest where you can go after them all how you want. But Naughty Dog delivered something so tight and considered and the story was allowed to play out in the darkest bleakest ways. But with the darkness comes the light. When this game has bright spots, it is blinding. I loved the jump back to Museum. The little jokes between Dina and Ellie, the song that you would miss Ellie play if you didn’t go back to the record shop and all the other tiny nuances that left this as a great book that I couldn’t put down. Then the switch happened. They pulled an MGS2 on us and made us play as the ‘villain.’ I saw it from the jump that oh okay I get it, you want me to feel something for the baddie so that when I kill her I am felt feeling gross. A few mins in, I figured I would do a quick scene with her and then we would snap back to the Theater. But no, we went through the whole game again. Slowly but surely I began to feel things for Abby and even worse, began to feel remorse because I knew what would happen to each and every one of these WLF characters. Poor Vita girl. Just wanted to play Hotline Miami. As I got closer and closer to this antagonist I began to empathize with her more than I did Ellie. Ellie: she’s immune. Could have been the cure and had her life mean something, finds out her father figure doomed humanity, then he gets murdered for it. Goes out on a revenge mission. I get it. Abby: a firefly. Dad is on the cusp of developing a cure to save the world. Everyone she knows and loves gets murdered. Misses out on the chance to live a normal life and instead trains her body to become the perfect yoked killing machine to get the boogyman who took everything from her. I get that too. (Abby never missed arm day in her life) I love the fact that the scar leader, in any other game would have had such significance. She would have been Yara and levs mother or at the very least a big boss battle. But no, in this game she’s long dead and it’s only through letters of people that come after her and passing dialogue from Lev that give you insight into who she was and the religion she founded. Lev and Yara. They are a fantastic pair. From the onset, I knew I would like them and then when it’s hinted at why the Scars call Lev an apostate. Just such fantastic writing. It’s understated and not even played up for a shock. I’m pretty sure it’s just two separate lines of dialogue and a letter. But it’s handled like just another situation in the last of us 2. Understated and with respect. I found myself dreading getting back to the theatre as Abby because while I have now grown to love her, I really didn’t want to see her kill Ellie, let alone Dina.  Thankfully the game did not end there. This game is a game about revenge, no doubt about that. But it’s also a game about the consequences and of the after. Both Abby and Ellie get what they feel they needed and both are able to walk away. Both stories end in darkness, but they also move to the light. ——,Gameplay-wise, this is probably the best stealth game I’ve played since metal gear solid 5. Everything is always by the skin of your teeth, and enemies have weight and consequence. You feel as though they are real people and such I went out of my way to kill as few as possible in certain situations. Graphically, I’d say it’s the most impressive game I’ve played. I stunned with what they do with lighting. The audio especially with headphones is probably the best I’ve been immersed in a world especially hearing those horrifying whistles close behind me and not knowing exactly what it means. This game is by far the best piece of media I have ever experienced. As a game, it has its issues, but as a piece of interactive media this is by far my favourite thing that I have seen, read or heard. This is not the story that I had created for Joel and Ellie in my mind. But this is something so much greater. This is the story that Neil Druckman, Troy Baker, Laura Bailey, Shannon Woodward & Ashley Johnson created with a team of brilliant individuals. Phenomenal.
3119) The gameplay the graphics are unbelievable,The story is original and unique very bold Ppl just mad cause of Joel and the leaks but it shouldn't define how amazing overall this game is
3120) This is a 10, but we have to revise our reviews of LOU1 up to 11s because it was perfect
3121) For me it's 9/10, but i will give it 10 because a lot, really a lot of dumb people who even didn't played this game rated it 0, I think worst call of duty is worth at least 2 score. Tlou2 is really better in gameplay than 1st part, but story is a little bit worse than in the first part, but 1st part was game of the decade so its really hard to make game better than 1st part. I think players had very big expectations for the game, but how Kratos said :,, Keep your expectations low and you never will be disappointed. "
3122) Nothing but a masterpiece. An incredible experience with a powerful story which could not be told in any other type of media. One of my top 3 games of all time. Sadly, the controversy and review bombing of trolls will detract programers from producing games like this. Maybe decades will pass before we see something so powerful that is not afraid of going places, like The Last of Us part 2.
3123) Do not let someone else's opinion of this game influence your own, play it. Go in without expectations and you may hate some of it but that is the intention here. Best game I've experienced, and the only collector's edition I own. Highly recommend even if you only ever play it once.
3124) Naughty Dog has done it again! Incredibly emotional story, engaging, immersive. Super rich environment details and some of the best combat mechanics I have ever seen.
3125) Another great game by Naughty Dog! Everything from the visuals to the acting and story is top notch. The gameplay is significantly improved over the first. Especially in the variety in how to approach enemies. Gameplay feels really fluid. Deaths are really brutal and they turned the brutality way up in this game. Kills feel much more weighted than a standard goon that's meant to be taken down. The first time an enemy begged for their life I genuinely stopped for a moment to see if mercy was an option. It isn't.,As for the story that has become so divisive, I genuinely enjoyed it thoroughly. I won't type spoilers in my review, but the story was really bold and took big risks that you don't see in video game stories. This feels like a large jump forward in narrative based video games, much like the first last of us was.,If you're considering whether to play this game, my advice is to go for it. Go in blind. Read as little as possible before jumping in. I did that and I loved the game. A shame the game became a proxy war. Even the review score on this site can't be trusted as you don't know how many are genuine and how many are fake.  It's obvious a large amount of fake reviews exist by simply comparing the insanely large amount of reviews to this game to games that made more sales than the last of us 2, like red dead 2. Plus, a **** ton of reviews popped up within the first 24 hours of the game being out. The game is roughly a 25 hour game, so those reviews couldn't have been genuine. Oh well, all in all, great game and I highly recommend playing it
3126) This game took my heart, stomped on it, shot it, and threw it off a 70 story building. No other form of media has made me feel in this way. Following the first game with a simple plot but an intricate and engaging story. Coupled with amazing gameplay, graphics, and performances makes this one of the greatest games I have ever played. Thank you Naughty Dog.
3127) 100% worth it, best game of the year! I've never felt that much of emotions before, while playing a game, a real masterpiece.
3128) Phenomenal game. Makes you feel so many things. This is definitely the swan song for the PlayStation 4.
3129) A great story about revenge and reality with excellent graphics, enemy AI and actions. Though some plots are too real to be easily accepted , it deserves totally a 10.
3130) It took me sometime to analyse and understand the heap of emotions I experienced for the past three  week ever since I started playing this masterpiece. I have been playing video games for more than 20 years now. All these years I have enjoyed all type of games but I haven't experienced such a deep and profound video game experience ever before. Naughty dog have really taken the narrative driven video game genre to another level, this is the first time in the history of video games where a game have completely resolved the problem of  ludonarrative dissonance which we often associate with narrative driven video games.,(SPOILERS AHEAD),In my humble opinion last of us 2 even surpassed the original last of us. This time the story is more creepy, dynamic and scary.,Most of the video game developers nowadays don't take story in video games seriously, they simply put stories in their games just for the sake of putting it, as a result you would end up getting an Amateurish, and outright silly stories in almost all of the video games. It's always a challenge for developers to blend a mature story with  gameplay elements which an average gamer might expect,since both are conflicting in nature, some of the developers have tried and ended up failing miserably on both the fronts. But naughty dog took  bold steps to resolve this age old conflict and I can very well say that they came out with flying colors.,I have finished the game in survivor mode and the gameplay experience was very challenging and  satisfying at the same time.,And the story is something which is worthy of a Netflix series on its own, throughout the game i often wondered am I really  playing a video game?? That's how matured, deep and dynamic the story was. Even while playing with the NPC as your allies, the conversation which they have between themselves sounds quite natural and genuine and it doesn't feel forced, its pretty apparent that developers didn't take any aspects of the game lightly.,Despite unanimous approval from all of the reviewers some of the users are disappointed with this game and it's story, it happens mainly because of the fact that most of the average gamer haven't experienced such a deep dynamic story and character arcs in a video game ever before.,All they want is some straight to the point simple average story. Naughty dog knowingly took the bold risk  of  choosing a story which will divide the fan base into two and yes it actually divided the fan base, and it's fine as a video game need not satisfy all of the gamers out there, and I completely understand why some people don't like it. Most of the fans of the first game got  emotionally attached to protagonist of the first game Joel, and they didn't like the fact that their favourite character died  in the initial act  of the story itself and the worst of all in the later part of the game they have to play as a character who killed Joel. But the main reason behind that idea was to understand different perspectives and for me personally it really worked, I started liking Abby over the course of the game, yes,at certain parts it was challenging for me, especially in the part  where she had to fight with Ellie, but if you remove your unconscious emotional bias towards certain characters and play the game mainly for the sheer experience of it,then this game rewards you with a profound, real experience which you wouldn't have experienced in any other video games before.,It's been more than 3 weeks since  I finished this game but i feel somehow sad and empty ever since. No other video game have impacted me this much.,Does it make this a perfect game?? the answer is "NO"  but the game flaws can be forgiven and it's shortcomings can be ignored,since what you are playing is not some other random crap, it's a genre defining Experience which will inspire many more developers to take this route and this gem will be remembered as one of the greatest achievement in the history of video games.,5/5.
3131) Besides impeccable scenarios, tense gameplay, amazing soundtrack, and incredible performances from the cast, this game presents an extremely brave and complex story that addresses mature themes in a way no other game has done before.
3132) Great game, the haters are just gonna hate. Neil Druckmann had a prominant role in TLOU1 which a lot of people seem to forget. Anyways, go buy this game.
3133) Easily my favorite game of the generation! Has some best and craziest moments in gaming History!
3134) It takes a true mastership of craft to make something this emotionally manipulative. The visual fidelity is unmatched, the gameplay is tense and chaotic, the storytelling is bold and ground-breaking. As a sequel, it serves as a reflection, a mirror to the original game; which may upset some, but its position as a reflection, rather than a replica, is why The Last of Us Part II is a modern classic that will stand the test of time, just as divisive games of the past - like Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty - have before it. Naughty Dog have once again showcased why they're in another league compared to their competitors.
3135) This game is an incredible and unforgiving continuation of the previous story which does so much to the players psyche. It is not for the faint at heart or the closed minded. It is a visual wonder, with intense, versatile gameplay and a storyline that reflects the cruelty and beauty of reality. There is no such thing as heros or villains. We are all human. I waited 7 years for The Last of Us II, and the massive range of emotions it made me feel proves it’s masterpiece status. The review bombing does not reflect the game and I would urge anyone to avoid any spoilers and form an opinion on the game by playing it blind as I did. I commend the game for its accurate representation, it’s rough emotional edges, and sparkling graphics and smooth motion. If a game can make you cry, laugh, jump, and play everyday, it is worth it. Your personal views will be put to the test as it shows the truth of love and heartbreak among us all.
3136) I know most people don't agree with some parts of the story. But I think it just depends on your perspective. And yes things we don't like happen, that's life. I personally love it and I think it's very well written. As for gameplay, graphics and stuff like that, it's just done flawlessly. A real masterpiece.
3137) This game is brilliant. A masterpiece. Couldn’t be better. I’m so happy that I made to play this game... I recommend to anyone who wanna have an incredible experience for life!
3138) Excellent Game. a history very emotional with characters fabulous. graphics amazing and gameplay 10/10.
3139) I understand the divisiveness of this game but I personally loved it. My high expectations following the first part were exceeded. Masterfully done by Naughty Dog, cast, and crew. A true high point in the artistry of video games, for sure.
3140) Masterpiece, Naughty Dogs best game. Surpasses the original, A must play for anyone who owns a PS4. Story driven cinematic tour de force.
3141) Surely the game of the year and it will be the best for years to come. People doing review bombs should put their stuff together and think of how stupid a human being tgey turned into.
3142) Sorry for my bad english ! you cant go kill big cut of a crew and then expect they leave you on your way ! Gameplay geraphic everything was perfect The story was real not like stupid popular tv series or movies we see these days goin on top like peaky blinders or got ! Yeah it would be great if ellie and joel kill them all and live  till the end of part 5 or 6 but this would be just for money and these people who love those tv series would love game like this too but i appriceate naughty dog for not doin dis !
3143) All of the insults to the game have a lot of things in common, like men being babies and its apparently sjw garbage, so when looking for a review try to look for one that isnt going to immediately call it bad because of either abby or Joel, it is literally the single best game I've ever played and I vowed to never buy it after seeing the leaks but they absolutely do not speak for the game, dont let neither me or anyone else speak for it either it play for yourself and decide
3144) Great game that I enjoyed playing very much. Would have bought twice. Very recommended.
3145) I was one of the few who went into this game without seeing any spoilers, and I must say that people’s expectations ruined it for them because this was a phenomenal game. The story had me captivated the entire time and while the gameplay is very long it was worth it.
3146) Joel’s death did create a lot of hate towards this game, but this just shows how how well people naughty dog has immersed its players into this story, Nonetheless... I did not like what happened to Ellie, I have found the moment of her being unable to play Joel’s song too much, she did lose herself like Joel’s song said ‘If I were ever to lose you, I’d surely lose myself’.
3147) A true masterpiece in story telling and character development! And the best acting I've ever seen in a video game!
3148) This is the best-designed storyline of all the games that I played.  I have not experienced such emotions and sensations from games before.  Each protagonist and all their connections are revealed as much as possible. Experiencing each main character.  The authors raised the theme of the circle of cruelty of malice and hatred.  The outcome of the story is very realistic, it is not always possible to get rid of the void after loss.  The main thing is not to stop and will learn to let go and put up with these losses.,First of all, for me, this is the best game for its plot, authorship and graphics.  Authors can start creating serious scripts for films!
3149) No spoilers. This game is incredible.  Like nothing I've ever played before. You must experience this game first hand. No stream or review will do it justice. If your a fan of the first one, go in with as much of an open mind as possible and dont pay attention to the haters. Also the gameplay is top notch
3150) TLoU2 is hands down the best game I have played this decade...and that's saying something after playing and enjoying the likes of original tlou,god of war,spiderman,bloodborne,uc4 etc.,The gameplay is fun..the variety of ways in which you can approach an encounter is just astounding. Great replayability and very flexible gameplay not to mention the amazing difficulty modifiers which change up things like ammo, enemy pattern and behaviour etc.,Drool worthy visuals and F-in-amazing audio design.,Great voice acting and performances from the cast and crew.,And a very nice complex story which just keeps on going and giving. really good writing. the structure of the game is a bit odd, but serves the story and more importantly the narration really well.,I am glad nd had the guts to do this game and commit so hard to what they wanted to do with it.,It really shines for me personally. Highly recommended to everyone who has played and liked the first game. Tlou2 really tops the original in every way.
3151) The game is very good, the story God forbid this is incredible, the graphics, the gameplay, the relationship between Dina and Ellie the smallest details that Naugthy Dog made.  she managed to get me out of the real world and put me into a post-apocalyptic world.  This game has no defects.
3152) My brother is ranting and raving about how the game is bad even though he hasn't played it, and I haven't played it either lmao
3153) The games truly fantastic, but can it live up to the first game? No, sequels never can! But it was a hell of a lot of fun to play. I’m glad to see the average score is rising for the game, because there are a lot of butt hurt toxic ‘fans’ out there, down voting this masterpiece because of some dark story telling choices and some political themes they don’t agree with.
3154) The Last of Us Part 2 takes everything that made the first game a masterpiece and pushes it forward in great new ways. It evolves the gameplay to become more kinetic and intense. The story plays with a range of all your emotions. It’s not afraid to make you happy, upset, uncomfortable, or to let you think about what just happened. The characters in the game give you new and old faces to bring life to let you see the different viewpoints they all have. Naughty Dog delivers another great game, and when everything is added together, it adds up to another generation-defining masterpiece.
3155) Very fun! Great story and gameplay!!,All of the story events make sense and I loved the character change like MGS2. It really helped to give the point of the game of Revenge is worthless and both sides loose.
3156) One of the greatest game according to narrative part, the best from the point of graphics and animations. For other mad people, you have to play games without any thoughts about lgbt.
3157) I finished the game on 20/06/ 2020 and even today I can't stop thinking about it and the feelings and reflections that this game gave me. This game made me feel things I had never felt before. This game made me get into an internal conflict with myself, I didn't know what to feel anymore. The Last Of Us Part II gives you an inexplicable and very personal feeling that you can only feel when playing it. The story of this game is very well written! People who didn't like the game, probably didn't play it or understood the story in a completely wrong way. I've been a fan of The Last Of Us since 2013 and played both games at launch, and my favorite character was Joel, without a doubt. When he died, I felt emptiness inside me, I felt worse than Ellie, I was filled with hatred and all I wanted to do was kill everyone responsible for it. When we go on our journey of revenge with Ellie, it is gradually noticeable that she is losing humanity and her essence. "If I ever were to lose you, I'd probably lose myself." and that’s what happened to Ellie and us players. Ellie was completely lost after losing Joel. She was filled with hatred and continued an endless cycle of hatred and revenge. Abby lost the person she loved most in the world, her father. She had that pain inside her, and she only thought about it every day, because she had lost everything and she thought that the only thing that would bring her peace would be to kill Joel, to avenge her father. However, when she killed him, nothing changed. Abby continued to have her nightmares and kept thinking about her father's death every day, in addition to carrying a huge guilt for killing Joel. Abby lost her humanity and essence at that moment when she killed Joel. She didn't regret killing Joel, but she realized that none of it was worth it. Ellie is a mirror of Abby, because the two were lost because of the death of the person they loved most in the world. The two were feeding on hatred and losing their humanity, because of revenge. A quote that can define this whole situation, is "Before you embark on a journey of revenge, dig two graves" (Confucius), and one of these graves is for you, because you will get lost in the middle of the process of revenge, you will become someone else. Abby's journey is a journey of redemption, which is why she felt so compelled to help Yara and Lev. In that moment we can see how similar Abby is to Joel, because Joel lost his humanity after losing Sarah, he became a totally different person, he became cruel and sadistic, he was not a good person like before, and that is exactly what happened to Abby. Joel found love and his humanity again, when he met Ellie. Abby found love and her humanity again, when she met Lev. Ellie and Lev were like little lights of hope in the darkness of Joel and Abby. Abby managed to find her peace and redemption in Lev. You realize that when Abby was going to kill Dina, but she looks at Lev and decides to stop, because she knows that revenge never brought anything good to her life, and now she had one reason to live and move on: Lev. However, although Ellie lived a happy life on the farm with Dina, she did not eat, was sick and continued to have her panic attacks and nightmares, she would only find peace in herself. So she decides to go after Abby to find that peace. Abby refuses to fight Ellie because she was already destroyed inside because of revenge and had already realized that it was never and will never be worth it. She lost the love of her life and all of her close friends, she lost EVERYTHING. When Ellie was about to kill Abby, she has a memory of Joel and decides to stop. This memory of Joel was a good memory, he was happy and alive. In the last times that Ellie remembered him, she just remembered him dead and suffering. That memory was like "Stop, baby girl. It won't change anything and it will only destroy you", because when Ellie killed Abby, she would completely lose her humanity and her essence, and she would stop being the person Joel loved and cared for. I personally felt at that moment, that that "Ellie" was not the Ellie that we knew, it was not the Ellie that Joel knew and loved. She also saw what Abby felt for Lev, it was what Joel felt for Ellie. She let the love she felt for Joel, overcome the hatred she felt for Abby and it completely broke the cycle of hatred. Naughty Dog was very brave in producing this game and I really admire them for it. The interesting thing is that Ellie's memory of Joel at that moment, was their last conversation, their last words. Hate destroys many things, but a small fraction of love and forgiveness fixes everything. There are no heroes or villains in this story, only humans. It is a pity that many people failed to understand the message of the game... I'm sorry for the people who couldn't feel the experience and emotions that this game provided for us. I hope people have more love and maturity and don't spread unnecessary hate messages. MASTERPIECE
3158) The single best game ive ever played. Unparalleled experience that eclipses it's incredible predecessor.
3159) This game is unlike anything else, it’s a real masterpiece. It provided one of the most stunning, harrowing, conflicting, emotional, gut-wrenching and intense experiences of my life. It broke me in ways I can’t even begin to explain, it made me feel everything with such intensity that no other piece of fiction or media has been able to accomplish. You can have your opinion and disagree with some narrative choices, but Naughty Dog gave us a real story in a world where bad and horrible things happen. It was a story that needed to be told. And is brutally uncomfortable but equally astonishing. And you can’t deny either how well-crafted it is as well as the heart and soul poured into bringing this game to life. The gameplay, the visuals, animations and graphics are unparalleled and situates this game in a whole other level. So thank you Naughty Dog for delivering such a complex and beautifully crafted story and video game.,,Even if leaks and spoilers “ruined it” for you, give this game a chance. It is so much more than what you think it is or think you know. Play it, live through it and let it take you to one of the most gripping experiences a video game has ever delivered.
3160) If it is compared to the rest of the AAA games that are out there it is a definitive 10, there is no other game that can be compared in gameplay except MGS V, and if we talk about graphics it is the best that exists today it is almost  not to believe that it is running on a PS4 and not on an RTX, the audio quality is just as sublime the audio is so good that it becomes something that is part of the same gameplay and gives total immersion, listening to the Seattle rain is  more impressive to be a PS4 which the audio is not as good as it was on ps3 and the music of Gustavo Santaolalla because we all know how good it is, the art design, needless to say, it is the best of the game just like  it was in the first, artificial intelligence is one of the best there is, enemies are always alert, they communicate with each other, they flank you, they track you down and they notice if something is wrong or if a partner is missing, in addition to going in front of  an enemy or being exposed for a long time is very complicated,  one thing for sure is that it is the game with the best lighting system (not RT) of all, and the characters (except for the unmentionable) are very good, Dina, Jessie, Owen or Lev have very defined personalities and can be empathized  and feel interest very easily, and if we talk about the voice acting work this is something that was already a guarantee of excellence with the actors that we know lend the voice, and if we play on the subject of animations it is definitely the most natural and refined that  It exists so much so that people came to think that the gameplay trailer was cinematic because it was not to be believed, the studio animations are to date the best in the industry. The game when compared to everything that exists out there is a 10 without problems, there are not many games with this level of quality.
3161) Some pieces of media feel so perfect they don't need sequels, and that was the camp I was firmly in with TLOU2.,,And yet this game proved me wrong. The story NaughtyDog manage to tell is perhaps the most incredible exploration of grief that I've seen across any medium. Narrative aside, they delivered on systems that elevate the gameplay of the first game to new heightsn whilestill maintaining the same DNA that makes TLOU special. A game thst contains the most powerful scene in gaming that I've ever seen. It will stay with me forever.
3162) I didn't look at any review before finishing this game so this is my honest opinion. Also, my real score for the game is 9.5. Graphics are amazing. Music is good but not as good as the first one. Story is great too but the order of way that they told the story was the weak part. Gameplay is great too but it can get repetitive sometimes. Overall I highly recommend the game.
3163) I love it. Great story, gameplay, atmosphere, direction. 35 hours in. Masterpiece
3164) Best game best story best graphic best scenes  for only playstation gamers!!!
3165) Best experience of this year,-———————————————————————————————————————————-
3166) It's the best game ever. Neil Druckmann is a genius!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
3167) Definetly one of the best games on this gen. Continue the way of the 2st game and improves it a lot in EVERYTHING. Seems like the perfect mix with metal gear solid gameplay. Absolutely a must, with awesome characters, gameplay and story
3168) Extremely good story, which does not let you go after days and makes you overthink.
3169) This game is near perfect in every way. Don't listen to the haters. Most of them lack the emotional and/or intellectual depth to fully understand the game. The people I know personally who were disappointed by the story or the structure rate it 7 or 8 out of 10. This is not a 1-star game by any measure.
3170) Don't listen to the haters, this game is fantastic. The gameplay is very similar to the first one, they did not take leaps and bounds ahead on that front. The story is amazing, conflicting, heartbreaking, and so much more. Most of what people are hating about it is that it isn't the story they wanted, it isn't what they thought they were gonna get, but if you go into the game with an open mind and just wanting to experience an amazing emotional journey, this is a must play game.
3171) The game is a masterpiece. I was hooked from start to finish. The world the characters inhabit and how it ultimately shapes every interaction they have is incredible. I can’t remember the last time a game took me on such an emotional journey, not just sadness but anger and joy. 10/10 well done.
3172) I enjoyed it far more than I expected to and I actually prefer it over the first game.
3173) A masterpiece and better than the first! There are some story problems,but that’s all! Gameplay,graphics,detail and runtime,this game is my favorite game this generation!
3174) It's a good game, beautiful graphics, good gameplay, the only thing that leaves you wanting is the story in some ways
3175) People are upset that the developers didn't make the most predictable boring happy ending plot that they had dreamed up in their unimaginative heads like most garbage marvel movies' plots spew out on a regular basis. One of the best games I have ever played. The people complaining cant even give a proper reason for hating it other than the fact that a certain character dies. The game shows you that Joel was not that good of a person and that him killing dozens of people that were trying to save humanity... has consequences... what did you think was going to happen. I knew 7 years ago he was done for in the next game.,,Hopefully this rating spamming does cause them to cancel a potential 3rd game.
3176) One of the best games of the generation. Beautifully crafted environments, brilliant voice acting and a fun game play loop alongside a brutal sad narrative.
3177) Hi, I'm from r/thelastofus2, here to leave my 50th 0/10 metacritic review on Neil CdrUCKmann's badly written, social justice agenda pushing, plothole ridden, flop of a sequel. I didn't play it, but the leaks were 100% accurate and I can't believe they killed the good guy, Joel. Joel wouldn't just say his name to strangers. Why did they make him soft? I don't want to play as his killer. I stopped played after 30 minutes, when the game makes you play as evil buff woman. She has arms bigger than mine and it makes me insecure. Why does Ellie find real love? I can't believe Neil would represent a trans person. This is America! Most of these 10/10 reviews are PAID! Hitler wasn't even as evil as Abby. Do not buy this game and form your own opinion! Make sure you tick helpful on this review!
3178) For me, this game is truly a masterpiece. Yes it is not a PERFECT game, but i loved every part of what this game had to offer.
3179) An outstanding achievement in world design, technical flair, and performances. Gorgeously rendered environments, tight and gripping gunplay, and voice acting and mocap second to none. The negative reviews you see here are from manbabies who can't handle a little complexity in their narrative.
3180) Devastating story. It's hard to get used to Abby after waiting for a game about Ellie for so long, but it closes wonderfully. A brave and risky developer move, another gem
3181) Like many others I saw the leaks and the bad reviews before the game came out. And at first I was disappointed that naughty dog could not come up with a better story. But i still played through the whole thing taking my time and catching every detail that I possibly could. By the time end credits rolled, I was an emotional mess. There has never been a game that could make me feel like this. I encourage all of you to give it a chance, even if you don't like Abby by the end you might still understand why she killed Joel and feel empathy for her. Also Ellie is a brutal bad ass!
3182) beautiful game. Loved the story. Couldn't fault it.  I can understand why people got annoyed but I found the overall experience great.
3183) This game, like it’s predecessor is beautifully crafted. Expect to be romanced by the wonderful graphics of Naughty Dog, while gritting your teeth into a carefully considered story. The game is story and combat focused. While the difficulty provides a range for all players, a hooting and stealth are your main options. The environments provide players with many diverse opportunities. Outside of combat players can immerse themselves in the story of the characters, or just roam around enjoying the scenery.,Naughty Dog is a company that always pays attention to detail, from dust on window-seals, to scratch marks on surfaces. While not ever scene is eye-candy, the grotesque scenes are still a masterpiece.,What you put into this game you get back, so if collectables are your thing, you will thoroughly enjoy exploring the world of Last Of Us Part 2. And if not, you can bypass them and still enjoy the length and very moving story.,Thank you Naughty Dog, this is my first review and your game has given me a reason to write one.
3184) Because it is a game, it gives you an experience that you can provide emotions that are superior to movies.
3185) Mint. Reallllly mint. Thought provoking and mint. Cracking. Sadness, happiness, anger, frustration... it’s got them all
3186) Too many people are blindsided by Ellie being lesbian ( like they didn't pay attention to the first game or play the DLC) , intimidated cuz Abby is buff and can probably beat your ass, or mad cuz a trans 13 year old exists ( who was supposed to get married off to some elder in their religious group) in the game that they automatically disapprove of the game -_-. It is not pushing any kind of agenda for people literally existing in a post apocalyptic game..Game and theme of vengeance was handled really well. Conflict was definitely present and showed repercussions of seeking vengeance from using Ellie to show conquest to achieve that goal and Abby as showing the aftereffect of completing vengeance and the void it creates after obsession of something for years.. it was foreshadowed hard in beginning of game during Joel song " if I lost you, I'd surely lose myself". Which is exactly happened to both characters. Game was superb to me. Of course it can have subjective criticism for how the gameplay and pacing can effect your experience but existence of lesbian or trans character shouldn't be a crutch for a problem in game. Just saying.
3187) This was a phenomenal experience. I enjoyed every moment of playing through this game. My heart raced the entire time and I ultimately fell in love with all of the characters. Such an amazing experience. Disappointing that people would rather complain because they don't have a character in a bikini than play through this masterpiece.
3188) Sure, I may not agree with a couple of the story decisions, but nonetheless this is a riveting narrative with gameplay hooks that kept me interested across the vast story.
3189) This game is the best game this generation story gameplay.  It's got it all.
3190) Absolutely fantastic game. I love the theme of revenge is a cycle not an end. I guess a ton of haters missed that.
3191) Smart and bold take on the story that require of your thinking and analyzing. Composition of the story is flawless.,And unusual theme for the game industry about empathy.,Real classic.
3192) IGNORE THE NEGATIVE REVIEWS.  I can understand someone giving this a 7 or 8 if they weren't completely happy with it but anything less and they are either A. A bigot who can't stand that homosexual love is normalized or B. They're the types of fans who throw a tantrum because something happens to a character or in the story that they didn't approve of. This is a wonderful breath taking game that everyone should play. Even if you didn't play the first one, give this a go. It might just become your new favorite game
3193) For one, I'm really not sure why this game gets so much hate? I for one, really enjoyed it. I went through so many emotions while playing this. From complete dread to moments of happiness to feelings of emptiness. Game-play is top tier, story is also top tier. Perfect game from my point of view and even rivals the first game. Definitely play through this game.
3194) Don’t listen to all the haters who gave it a zero without even playing it. This game is a masterpiece. The gameplay, graphics, and stealth all are top notch and a natural continuation of the first game. The story is what has made a lot of people mad, but for me it was a stunning success. The story IS challenging. It will ask you to walk a mile in the shoes of your enemy. It will ask you to be empathetic to the other when all you want is to hate. If you keep an open heart and mind I promise it will be one of the most audacious and thought-provoking experiences to be had in a video game. Give it a try, play it all the way through, and judge for yourself.
3195) The world of TLOU is harsh, cruel, and sorrowful, where humanity has been long strayed from its original values. A lot of people here say that the game is bad because of its story but I think TLOU part 2 deserves at least an 8, in an objective way for the landscapes, visuals, and gameplay - it's a breathtaking game and a mindblowing experience.,Personally I loved this part a lot, the story was really great in my opinion and I never shivered, cussed, smiled and felt so many controversial emotions while playing a game before! I deeply love this game.
3196) Great game, one of my favorites. If you play to the end and put your anger aside and give it a chance instead of being a petulant child, the characters and motivations make sense. Not a happy game, but a satisfying and beautiful one.
3197) Good game! Amazing quality of game, interesting storyline and available graphics. I love it
3198) The last of us parte II is the best gamer ever,This history is very good,gameplay is awesome and game is beautiful
3199) I cried, I was angry, I was scared, I laughed, I cried some more. What an intense experience! I feel physically and emotionally drained.,Play. This. Game.
3200) One of the best games this decade! Superb graphics, very good game audio and music and an academy award winning story. The story has excellent pacing and characters are very deep!,Absolutely no regrets buying this game! Very good sequel to TLOU1!
3201) A heartbreaking masterpiece!  I am a die hard Last of Us 1 fan and came to love this sequel more than the original.  The story goes to some difficult places but it is absolutely a worthy successor to the classic that is the first game.  The gameplay is so much more fluid and immersive than the first game and the stealth is really satisfying.  Everyone has their own opinions they are entitled to and this one is mine; between the roller coaster story and addicting gameplay I don't see how anyone could hate the game.  This game's story is a heartfelt one that turns a mirror on the player and asks you to actually use your brain and its reception has been a reminder that empathy is a trait that the general public is severely lacking in.  Please play this game, I promise you will leave the experience having learned something new about yourself and what it means to be alive.
3202) A real masterpiece, well done Naughtydog. I really enjoyed this experience all throughout. Just some minor bugs encountered on the way but surely will be patched up. Looking forward for part 3.
3203) The hate on this game is not Fair, it is not a perfect game but honors the first part
3204) I have to confess that the ending was heartbreaking but that dies not mean I didn't love it. I understand the motives of Abby, but I still don't like her as much as I like Ellie. I didn't like the fact that I had to play so mucho time with Abby.,For me Ellie kill people because of self defense except for Nora, but Abby dedicated the last 4-5 years to became a killing machine, you can see that she actually enjoy killing when she almost kills Dina and Ellie has a panic attack.,To be honest, I really want to know or if possible that Ellie and Dina are back together, because we know that Abby and Lev have a "happy ending" joining the fireflies but what about Ellie? She deserve a happy ending, she starts to heal and she can earn Dina's trust again.,So, my final grade is:,Gameplay 9 because of the amount of time playing with Abby.,Story 10!
3205) I don’t know why people are criticising this game so much.,Maybe you should first play it, so you can talk about it.,Also start appreciating this kind of games cause there are not that many of them. Really enjoyed it!
3206) Game of the gen. Despite the boycott (which colossally failed) and the rampant review bombing (made redundant as the user score is slowly going up), the sheer quality of this game has drowned out all of its bad faith detractors. Truly a masterpiece.,Also, who would’ve thought anti-SJWs were the real SJWs? Funny how that works.
3207) I think this game is one of the best ever made. It’s not just a game, it makes you think about choices, about relationships, about a lot of mistakes that people do. The effort they put to make everything so realistic is incredible, actors are incredibly skilled, music is just perfect. Congrats Naughty Dog for this masterpiece!
3208) Played the game twice so far. Just as amazing as the first one, Naughty Dog knows what they’re doing.
3209) Seriously the best game that has ever been made in the history of games. It is absolutely phenomenal. People hating on it couldn't be bothered to actually open their brains and understand what the writers wanted the audience to do. It's a masterpiece in every sense of the word.
3210) Just The Best Game i've ever played on all my life just like the first was! Surely deserve "Game Of The Year", this game represents the "ultimate" of game design! Just AMAZING! Perfect History and very hardly to critic it, The most
3211) Hello, good. I will not lie, but for me it was a great game, the story unfolds very well, not everything is a happy ending. At first I felt anger, fury, a little revenge for the character Abby, but by showing her side and how her life makes me understand that revenge is bad, it kills the soul and poisons it. I give it a 10 for how well it is done.
3212) I am not someone who normally reviews anything. This game compelled me to do otherwise. The way ND got you emotionally invested in this game is like nothing I have ever played before. The story is elevated to new heights, even when it is absolutely difficult  to play through at times, but that is just a compliment to the creators. 10/10 best story I have ever seen a game pull off.
3213) The Last of Us Part 2 is a special game. It sets the bar high for storytelling in video games, and storytelling in general, while making you consider and question the ways we interact with and experience gameplay. Can’t wait for the HBO adaptation so those who don’t play video games can experience this adaptation.
3214) With very few pacing problems, this game exceeds my personal expectations. The first one was but a mere taste of what storytelling can achieve, with the second part, the narrative and storytelling is by far an evolution of what storytelling is  achieved by AAA games as of today.
3215) Awesome game that definitely has me looking forward to the next game in the series.  Don't believe all the haters who give this game a poor rating.  Thumbs up to Naughty Dog for an  outstanding game
3216) ‪The Last of Us Part II is a story about how far you’ll go to revenge the ones you love and what it will cost you. It’s beautiful, tense and heartbreaking and Naughty Dog continues to prove that the video game medium has the capacity for more intimate and affecting storytelling than any other.‬
3217) Without to much doubts, one of the most fun and thrilling games i have played. A very good sequel after the first game. In my opinion its a good thing to add crazy twists. It makes it very realistic, because in an apocalyptic world, anything can happen, loved it a lot, good game, very curious about the next one,!
3218) Loved the game. One of the most memorable gaming experiences. It's a shame that a lot of people leaving negative reviews decided to hate the game without even giving it a chance.
3219) That's a truly amazing work of art. Since the beginning, the player gets into the story and comprehends its development entirely. It's a very deep, strong and brutal story, even more harder than the first game's plot. Graphics, gameplay, environment, characters... every single thing is absolutely perfect in this game. As the first one, it's one of the best games I've ever got the chance to play. Thanks Naughty Dog Team, your job was successfully accomplished.
3220) Great game. The atmosphere, the graphic and the audio works are phenomenal. Strongly suggest to play the game in the survivor mode.
3221) Amazing game if you play it and ignore the spoilers. If you have seen the spoilers it still truely is amazing despite the asswipes **** their pants over a girl with muscles.
3222) This game is something else. It's beautifully connected with the first one and makes you think if that there are no heroes nor villains in the vile world that Naughty Dog created.,,If you have not played this game, my advice for you is: Don't listen to either haters or lovers of this game, people have different opinions, just play it and see it for yourself.,,There are many collectibles that reveals the story untold of that world, so pay attention to that.,,Also, if you are looking for a fairy tale happy ending story, play something else. If you're hoping for a happy ending you haven't been paying attention.,,Ps: As Neil Druckmmann said, first one is about love, what it does to you. Part two is about revenge and what it does to you.
3223) I don't understand why those who claim they've played the game say they hate it.,Sorry Joel died. I loved him too, but he is literally the reason that there is no cure for the world.,Playing as Abby was such a breath of fresh air.,Ellie is a rampaging lunatic, even though I understand and agree with her motivations.,The whole point of this game was to show how violence is cyclical, and thankfully, Ellie and Abby are able to break that cycle.,If you didn't like the game, then you clearly weren't able to get over yourself and see what Naughty Dog was truly trying to show you.
3224) It is a very well made game, only idiots would qualify with less than 5 are those who live in a very different world than the one we are actually going through, they want a happy ending to their **** life
3225) the game is gorgeous and the story is amazing, I think that most people saw the spoilers and played the game thinking that it was bad so when I played it I didn't know any spoilers so my expectations were good, when I saw the Joel death I was mad and I thought this game was gonna be just some revenge story but when you play with Abby you understand what is the point of the game(one of the points), the game shows compassion and that revenge is not worth it. I waited 5 years to play this and I love what it did in the game industries, this game is beyond this decade. 10
3226) Is this game perfect?,,Of course not.,,But is it an incredible feat of the medium and something I will never be able to forget, nor get out of my mind for the next few weeks?,,Hot damn, YES.,,This is without a doubt one of the best games I have ever played. It has some minor flaws, nothing game-breaking or soul-crushing, but it made me think, feel, laugh, cry, shout, jump and physically shake with anxiety during the most pivotal story moments. I've never played something so subversive, heart-pounding, emotional and gripping in my life. This is not just a game; it's so, so much more.,,I gave it a 10/10 rating to try and balance out the shameful number of less-than-2 reviews. But it's no less than a 9/10 for me.,,Because like I said - it isn't perfect. I've seen a very small number of weird graphical glitches, some strange AI behaviour in particular from allies (yes, usually the enemy still can't spot your friends when they run out of cover right in front of them - but this hardly ever happens), and the slightly clunky controls which sometimes leave you frustrated when an easy headshot suddenly becomes a frantic fight for your survival (normally not an issue - as when the gameplay devolves from stealth to action, I have never wanted to reset the checkpoint, because both forms of gameplay are exciting and super fun).,,But honestly? That's about all I can think of. Anything else would be nitpicking. The people who are review-bombing or slating this game for their sad and frankly toxic personal and societal reasons, seriously need to get their priorities straight.,,If you're going to take a story about infected, mushroom-headed zombies taking over the world, and simply complain about the incredibly realistic human stories nestled inside it, and call it outlandish and stupid - you're a complete moron. It's that simple.,,Video games and the stories they tell are going to continue to evolve into something more real, believable, and human than ever before. If you refuse to evolve with them, slither back into the primordial soup from whence you came.,,If you voted this game anything less than 7 just because you didn't like LOU2's "LGBT agenda" (also known as "a bunch of real-life, believable human stories") - perhaps you should stick to the ballistic knives and dual-wielded shotguns of Call of Duty, where you can call strangers "gay" to your hearts content, and scream down the mic when your mother calls you for supper.,,After what I would easily consider an absolute triumph of a game, Naughty Dog at least deserves fair reviews. Not the utter bile being spewed by hopeless, societal rejects.,,And if you've posted story spoilers without even trying to hide them, just to ruin the story for everybody else because you spat your dummy out and had a tantrum - shame on you.
3227) [No Spoilers],An essential experience for fans of the genre.,The Last of Us Part II has the best gameplay compared to all modern Naughty Dog games, the best visuals in the industry, top-notch performances and animations, and the best accessibility options ever so everyone and anyone can play the game.,But the controversy is in the story. I went to the game with an open mind, and I loved it. Its lengthy 25-hour campaign has a lot of powerful things to say. It takes a lot of narrative risks, that worked for me and pays of at the end. There were some pacing issues, but for me they were minor and didn't detract from the overall experience.
3228) One of the best games ever made! The graphics on PS4 is stunning! The story and improved mechanics are also terrific! Don’t believe this stupid low rating! Go and play! You wont forget it!
3229) Great game! Why so much hate? Everything is well done in this game. A masterpiece
3230) I have no idea how to use words for how good this game is!.................
3231) Just registered on metacritic to leave my review:,,Best game I’ve ever played. Love Abby.,Thanks.,Bye
3232) Great storytelling, great graphics, one of the best games I have ever played.
3233) Great game, amazing story and character writing. Abbey is probably my favorite character of the past decade
3234) It is an excellent game, exquisite soundtrack, delightful graphics, smooth move, dinamic, a great develope of characters, even the new ones which initially you hate them, you finish for love them, you can connect with them, great written, and most important, fine inmersive history and feelings, all that we ask for in an one last exclusive Play Station generation game. Thanks Naughty Dog, for giving us the opportunity of made this sad, enjoyable trip, part of our gaming souls, now, and forever.
3235) I dont care what anyone else says about the gameplay and the story. This is still easily the best game I've played on the PS4 this year...,,I know some people are mad about the game because they either expected a fairy tale ending or had strong opinions about matters not pertaining to the game itself. My advise is to play this game with an open mind and not focus too much on what people spoil for you here without actually finishing the game completely....,,All in all, in a cut-throat lawless world that Ellie, Joel and rest of the characters live in, there is no such thing as justice and predictability, TLOU 2 is meant to be a dark game with unpredictability. I hated Joel after the first game for his selfishness and last minute change of heart. Naturally everyone in TLOU universe would hate him and want him and his allies dead... Everyone wants to survive and everyone is a hero in their own story.,,The story is as unpredictable as it gets and the game-play arcs for each character is worth playing for. I have had enjoyable moments looking for all collectibles, safes, trading cards and notes left all around the environment in each chapter. It's interesting to tie all these artifacts together to piece up stories of all the bodies and infected people you encounter in the game... The developers really really put in a lot of effort into the game and it shows.... Please see the early gameplay trailers from 2017 and now (there is a youtube video out there showcasing that...) Plus, it also shows, like the current world we live in, nobody is perfect when making decisions. Everyone has some good moments and everyone has some bad moments. Plus, fate decides whether you live or you die...,,Keeping to that tone, this game is a masterpiece. I agree with the game creators to end the game on such a note as it leaves space for questions and thought. I found the story arc similar to Pulp fiction. Naughty Dog can now work on newer projects in peace regardless of spoilt meta fans and review bombers...,,The whole story can be encapsulated into a one liner - "An eye-for-an-eye leaves the whole world blind!" - befitting the title itself THE LAST OF US
3236) an Absolutely amazing journey of revenge with gripping characters. Characters I have never seen be portrayed in video games before. The world, the mechanics, UI and cinematics were all smooth and beautiful. This game deserves more recognition as it is a masterpiece. 10/10
3237) best game i've ever played, highly recommend.,definietly game of the year. :p
3238) I believe it is just a hate train now.  Personally I really liked the game. Have played through first TLOU three or four times. Didnt see any jewish propaganda, those who played TLOU 1 dlc, already knew Ellies view on females. So it is just a trend to hate the game now.
3239) This is absolutely the most impressive game ever made in every way. DO NOT let the haters stop you from experiencing this masterpiece.
3240) Simply one of the most beautiful and well-written games I have ever had the pleasure to play.,The first one is still my favorite, just for the fact that at the time of playing I had no idea what was waiting for me in that game. But this is just Naughty Dog showing that they are masters at what they do. Thank you, Naughty Dog.
3241) One of the greatest games ever made. Bad reviews are simply IMPOSSIBLE. Play it.
3242) The Game is the best! This is the first game who give this kaind of emotions.
3243) The Game DOESN’T deserve this hate , everything is good even the story , even though if you don’t agree with some choices the characters made but this is doesn’t mean it’s a bad story !
3244) Amazing! 10/10! Great gameplay and story/s!,A revenge story that backfires for both of them
3245) The Last of Us Part II gave to me emotions that i haven’t experienced in any video-game before, I,know that are some controversial aspects in the story but I appreciated that Naughty Dog took a risk and give us a more complex sequel. I loved how your feelings for a character changes drastically throw the game, a game that shows you that there are no heroes or villains, there are no winners or losers, there are  only human beings trying to survive in an hostile world, a world that shows the monstrosity but also the magnificent of the human race.,,The Last of Us II  game-play is very visceral and raw (the animations are insane) and the AI is the best that I have seen in years and like the previous game the art direction is astonishing and beautiful.
3246) It's not the game I thought I was going to play, but I enjoyed it nonetheless. I liked how they flipped my perspective and allowed me to see the world through the "villain's" eyes. I highly recommend that you give this game a chance
3247) This is why we need critics.  It seems like an outdated thing to have, until a group of you morons decides to get butt hurt over decisions that the developers made (If it were up to you both games would likely have been awful).  This was, in my opinion, a masterpiece and a brilliant next step in the Last of Us 2 saga.  I can only hope that they do an equally amazing job on Last of Us 3.
3248) The best game I ever played in my life, graphic, plot and gameplay deserve the highest score. Don't listen to a bunch of morons who don't even play. Try it yourself and you never regret it.
3249) This game is masterpiece. People are giving bad reivews and are writing that graphics and gameplay is good but give 0 points.. Yeah sure. In the world of the last of us not everyone can survive and not everyone has a plot armor. Things happen because is it realistic. The world is cruel and brutal. I loved every second of the game. And even the ending was great. I think people who think the ending was bad doenst get the message the game tells. People are hating it and didn't even realise that this is excatly the problem in the game. Not everything can be solved with hate.
3250) I have no words to describe this masterpiece. An incredible and unique experience that no other game can give. Absolutely recommended. 10/10
3251) Awesome story!!!!! Awesome gameplay!!!!! I highly recommend experiencing it.
3252) Graphic and game play are one of a kind, never seen before action-adventure. State of the art.,The story is dark, tense, surprising, upsetting and most of all haunting from the very beginning and doesn't let go of you until you finished and beyond. It took me one week to play and another to wrap my head around it. I didn't like every aspect of it, but I love the way it made me feel and think as no other game ever before.,Naughty Dog did an amazing job, brave enough to jeopardize some fans in the process. No hard feelings from me. Thank you instead! Well done!!
3253) Don't listen to all the haters. The game is 10/10. Great characters, music, graphics, gameplay. I seriously have nothing to criticise.
3254) This game put me against myself and made me question morality as a whole, thinking of raw human motivations versus rational ethics. From the fantastic graphics to the solid gameplay and absolutely phenomenal story, The Last of Us Part II was an absolute marvel that destroyed me emotionally and will haunt my memories for years. If you're here to see another action movie with a generic ending, you won't get what you want. And LGBTQ+ was present but not forced whatsoever, as characters were part of the spectrum either naturally or as a plausible storyline. If this bothers you, you shouldn't be in a 21st century society.
3255) The Last of Us has always been the best game for me. But Part II surpassed everything. I'm just stunned. No other artwork has caused such a storm of emotions. Masterpiece.
3256) How could somebody give this masterpiece a bad rating? Are you all serious? This is one of the greatest games I've ever played - if not THE greatest.
3257) Masterpiece. With Storytelling With Gameplay With Animations This Game is One of the bests.
3258) It’s a masterpiece... Great grapics, great story. That‘s my opinion. Try ist out to get your own...
3259) GREAT game. incredible visuals, so much energy invested into details. I liked the story, and how they made it so that you play the timeline with 2 characters.,,By the way, Ellie came out since the first game's DLC you reviewbombing idiots.
3260) The most astonishing, intense game I’ve ever played. It’s a unique experience, let yourself experience it.
3261) Great stories and very challenging game concept. Exceptional Graphic, Gameplay, Music, Cutscene, Design, Cast, Concept and world building. You can't find any game like this anymore. It a very unique, painful, fearsome and the most beautiful gaming experience I ever have in gaming. Respect
3262) Honestly, one of the best experiences I've ever had playing a video game. The level of quality in this game in terms of gameplay mechanics, visuals, sound design, music, and of course, story is some of the best that gaming has ever offered. I've played both parts fully, and although the first game had an engaging and high quality narrative, I felt that part 2 improved upon it in every way. Never have I played a video game that made me think and feel like this. Absolutely do not miss out on this experience.
3263) Great game mechanics and animations. Only bad parts are some side role characters are weak.
3264) This game broke my heart, and hopefully it will break yours too. It improves on the first game in every conceivable way. The graphics are excellent and the gameplay has been finely tuned. It’s the little touches that really make it special; like seeing weapons actually being modified at the workbenches. The music was perfectly chosen and provides an emotional touchstone throughout the narrative. I didn’t know that it was possible to make Take on Me sound melancholy, but Ashley Johnson managed it beautifully. I would also strongly encourage people to re-listen to Future Days (the Ellie/Joel song) again after they’ve finished the game because it takes on a richer significance. Where the game really shines though is in its story and the character development. We see a softer, more vulnerable side of Joel and a harder, vengeful Ellie that built on what was set up in the first game. This isn’t a game that panders. If anything, it is asking fans to trust it as it leads us on an emotional roller coaster. I never felt like my trust was misplaced. Every scene struck an emotional chord and even though I desperately wanted different outcomes for some of the characters, the game’s events fit the tone and theme that they were going for and had an internal consistency that I could accept. I ended the game bereft and emotionally drained which, while not the usual gaming experience, did illustrate how video games can be a place to grapple with difficult and even uncomfortable emotions.,,TLDR: not only is this the best game I’ve played all year; it is the best game I’ve ever played.
3265) A beautiful game unlike anything I’ve ever played. It’s given me a lot to think about.
3266) Huge improvements in gameplay and overall level design. The story is excellent, but suffers from some pacing issues, overall it absolutely lives up to the expectations the first game left.
3267) wow. this games was amazing! I like everything about the history. I hope the last of us lll in the future, I want to know what happened with Ellie after all that. :) thanks for this game! too sad in the ending but no problem
3268) Amazing game. I don't get the hate, its in my top 5 games of all time now. I didn't spoil the game for myself before its release so maybe thats why I loved it. You definitely need to play this.
3269) I personally loved this game from start to finish. I can see why people disliked this game, but it was worth the 7 year wait for me. Naughty Dog told a great story, just not one everyone necessarily wanted to hear.
3270) Spent 30 hours on this game. Loved every second of it. I highly recommend it.
3271) The story is magnificent, the moral compassion and moral struggle inside you is delivered in an incredible way. I know people are downrating it for certain reasons because they always want a superhero happy ending, but this, this is just, pure beauty and reality. I would definitely recommend.
3272) It is a perfect game with great plot and gameplay. Yes, it is slightly long, but very beautiful and realistic.
3273) This second title is really amazing surprise naughty dog prepared for us. I'd risk to say that is the most incredible narrative I've ever seen in games, many important topics appear in this game- even though the "basic line" is pretty simple: a revenge story. The choice by two protagonists- one the villain of the other, both heroes of their own story, is an absolute revolution in games narratives. Graphics at their best in this game, so resuming:,Graphics: 10/10,Characters development: 10/10,Narrative: 10/10,Soundtrack: 10/10,Gameplay: 9/10 - It could get a bit repetitive,,For me this is easily the game of the decade- for sure deserves the GOTY. An only experience everyone should try!,Many "Joel's widows" are complaining about the game, but it just tell us about themselves- most of them really incapable of accepting new experiences and thing more seriously about the whole game experience, this game is not for those who can't have empathy.
3274) Review regarding the story: it was a great story, shows that death does come out of nowhere, with no warning and not everyone gets a superhero death like Iron Man or gets to live happily ever after like captain America.  Once you truly understand the story you become more understanding of all the characters. No one is a hero, everyone is a villain in someone else's story. We are all used to happily ever after and that is what we expected in this but in the first game Sarah died, Tess died, Marlene died, Riley died and there was no cure. The story has always been dark and death in an apocalypse is common. Doesn't mean that it won't hurt but you can't really prepare because it is out of nowhere.
3275) Most likely the piece of any kind of media ever that has made me cry the most in my life. This is most likely one of the most divisive games in the history of the industry and, no doubt, it isn't for everyone. With that said, what an amazing game. I can't say that I enjoyed all of the experience because this is a story that makes you SUFFER, and feel everything the playable character is going through, be it Ellie or Abby. It makes you complicit with their bad choices, fear what is ahead and empty inside in the moments that life is just too painful to live. An absolute masterpiece.
3276) No spoilers. This game is fantastic, but it is very challenging to get through emotionally, and can make one very uncomfortable. It’s made in such a way as to feel like getting two games. Gameplay and graphics were amazing. It’s a real achievement in telling a narrative through a video game. It was nothing like what I expected, but far from a disappointment.
3277) No spoiler included.,Would like to give honest like 9.5 but there're none choice to do that. Still i'm willing to give it 10/10,For short version i felt that,"There maybe a lot of good games in this world. But only few can be meaningful to others",,And this one is sure does meaningful for me that's why i appreciated it so much.,,Still it was the best experience for me that this series has ever give. It's like you watch movie, you can related with the content whoever you are, wherever you from and there're nothing wrong with that.,I understand people despite the concept that they thought they are able to "choose" that's why i gave it 9.5 since you can't choose anything. We just an observer of this story, and also nothing with that because it's developer choices. I don't feel like i was force to do anything since i just pursue this game as it meant to be as for entertainment. But i don't find the story is disappointing for me. I already try my 2nd play through too and each time progress i reach i found more and more small details i have missed. And if you can compile those details together, you can say this game is really well done like piece of craftsmanship works. The expression, body physical reaction, realistic of light / sound and visual. I can say it here out loud that people who gave 0, never play game or they are bias / troll. If you gonna give it fairly you must take it as a whole,,Graphic 10/10,Sound 10/10,Mechanic 10/10,Acting 10/10,Ai responsive combat design 10/10,Environment design 10/10,Story i did enjoy so i give 9-10 / 10,,hope people considering to try it out because i can say it's worth trying for.,It's not a happy full with rainbow and enjoyable story but it's seem so real and really about human-being
3278) An amazing game. Great story, perfect gameplay. I would love to play an online mode. Please do it, this game deserves it. Never trust the hate, they're just fools. This is a master piece. One of my favorite games. You have to be adult enough to understand this amazing game.
3279) i finished the game around a week ago, and i’ve had some time to think about it. this game is a beautiful masterpiece. while it wasn’t what i was expecting, i loved every second of it and cried for a lot of it as well. beautifully written.
3280) After just finishing this game, this is in contention for my favorite game ever. I know some people are upset that the story didn't go where they wanted it to, but rest assured, everything happens for a reason, and the story this game tells is more resonant and powerful than I can recall in any other game. The gameplay, while very similar to the original, is still extremely good. Turning out the lights, playing this in 4K on a big screen with surround sound, you will get lost in the game. You will experience fear, dread, sorrow, relief, and a myriad of other emotions. Anything that can make me feel things that this game does as effectively as it does is clearly doing something right. I recommend this wholeheartedly, with one reservation - if you are open-world are bust, you might feel hamstrung. This game is not structured that way. It's not meant to let you tell your own story like Mass Effect, and it's not meant to let you go anywhere you want like GTA or Red Dead. But that is what makes it so good at what it does.
3281) This game challenged my empathetic capabilites like no other game has done before. While the game is known for being controversial (and for good reason), I believe that it shows depth for the circumstances these characters are in. The gameplay is super refined, as well as the animations and cinematic, the story is incredible and heart wrenching. It is a masterpiece that truly raises the bar on gaming as a whole.
3282) This game is a masterpiece.,,It is designed according to a clear and pure artistic vision and does not pull any punches. It isn't made to conform to the desires or the whims of anyone but purely with the story and characters at heart. Games like these set an amazing precedent for the industry as they promote artistic expression and auteurism within gaming as an art form. Beyond any superficial critique that the story didn't go in the direction anyone may have wanted, everyone must at least acknowledge that it is a worthwhile and important piece of art.
3283) Best Sony experience of the generation. Best Naughty Dog game ever, an absolute masterpiece doomed to be remembered in the future.
3284) It's a bit of a shame that you don't get to play as Joel for more than a few minutes. Joel is one of my favourite game characters of all time and it was heart breaking to see him die in part II.,At the time of that event happening in the game i was so sad and upset at the same time. It really made me hate Abby to bits and I couldn't wait for Ellie to get her revenge.,,Halfway through the game you suddenly get to play as Abby which was so annoying at the time. However, as time progressed in the game and more events happened I actually began to understand where she was coming from. By the end I kinda liked her.,Abby actually has some pretty epic moments in the game. Especially when she goes down in the basement of the hospital where it all started. That was seriously a crazy, dark and claustrophobic place where you take on the rat king. It was so epic to use the flamethrower here - truly an unforgettable experience.,,Ellie has her moments as well. She also gets some pretty wicked weapons such as the exploding arrows and trip mines. These weapons will rip people apart and it just looks absolutely mind blowing to watch. I can't remember a game that handles explosions so well.,,I would have liked to see more of Santa Barbara since you are not there for long. I really liked the environment and the way the Rattlers were keeping infected on chains. It was really fun to release these infected and watch them chase the Rattlers down.,,The story is not as good as in the first game but I do think the gameplay and mechanics are so much better. You can even go prone now! The game certainly feels way longer than the first one which is expected since there is currently no multiplayer available as there was in the first game. This game is one of those games that you HAVE to play. It sets new standards for sure.
3285) I'm here to scare gamers. Y'all are just mad that her arms are bigger than yours.
3286) Great game! The two sided story is amazing.  Naughty Dog always has something new to offer.  Compared to the first game, this one builds characters that are more realistic. Still love TW3 better though.
3287) Perfect game. You should play it and try it on your own. And after finishing the game just turn off ps and think for some time and after this time you can say you finally finish game.
3288) This game was incredible. I felt Naughty dog took a big risk with writing this story this way and I'm happy they did because it came out beautifully.  It's really interesting seeing so many people having issues with it, but very few are actually backing up their argument.,,Gameplay: Super solid. I felt in control, and coming from Souls games, i really enjoyed the addition of dodging. This added a new branch of strategy when planning out how you would handle encounters.,,Environment Design: Insane. I  couldn't believe how much time it took to get from one area to another until i started reading how long it took some people to finish the game. Just starting from one side of the room or area and moving to the other for loot and to just admire the way everything was put together, i can't express enough how beautiful the world is. The effects, the lighting, the sound, the foliage on everything. I love all of it.,,Story: I can see why people would have issue with a few things. I gotta say though, I was on the edge of my seat for every second of the experience. I love the direction they took, and i fell in love with the decision they made. It's a real rollercoaster and if you just let the story take you, you're in for a wild ride.,,I am sad about the main thing people seem to be upset about, but that character had to go for this to be what it was. I can't wait to play through again! I think I'll wait for ps5 and play both through back to back.
3289) Absolutely epic  Absolutely epic,Absolutely epic  Absolutely epic,Absolutely epic  Absolutely epic,Absolutely epic  Absolutely epic
3290) It's brave storytelling. ND decided to tell their story without fanservice. Many "fans" anticipated fanservice, second TLOU, same stories, same atmosphere, same pacing.,The last of us Part II is so much more than this. As much as I've loved the first part and its simplicity, this continuation is bolder, much more emotional, more complicated, bleaker, deeper with themes it talks about, and just... better (in my personal opinion). I've never felt so much while playing a video game. And I think I'll never will.,It is not a game for everyone. But if something is made just to be good for most gamers... sorry, but it needs to compromise the artistic value of the production. TLoU Part II doesn't and bless Naughty Dog for that. And no, it is not perfect, but it is the closest I've seen in video games.
3291) Absolutely adored this game, doesn’t deserve half the hate it’s getting.
3292) The Last of Us part 2 is one of those experiences that once concluded mark you deeply: to remain inside is the awareness of having witnessed one of the most emotionally devastating stories of recent years: a perfect representation of how war and revenge  are cycles of violence that do not see good and bad opposites, but only people with different reasons, who lose themselves and their humanity in a struggle that will never be able to fill their inner void. The characters of this story become an expression of this concept  .  Ellie is probably one of the best ever written in videogame history: characterized, in such a credible way, as a tough and disenchanted girl but at the same time fragile and profound. Beautiful in this sense the scenes in which the guitar plays, vehicle through which he manages to find Joel (in particular with the beautiful Future Days of Pearl Jam which has a text that seems written for them 2). We see this character in constant search for a meaning in his life, which would have willingly given it in sacrifice for the good of humanity, drive Joel away, guilty of having prevented him.  And it will be precisely this estrangement that constitutes a fundamental reason for Ellie's journey: it is not for the simple taste of revenge that Abby wants to kill, but because it has deprived her of the possibility of being reconciled with the most important person of her life, giving rise to her in a  exhausting sense of guilt for excluding her for so long.  Reconciliation that had started just the night before Joel's death, where the girl had in fact found the strength to try to forgive him.  Just as in the end he will find her to save Abby. He will make it after a last minute flash, by Joel playing the guitar: this means that the memory of love and sweetness drives away the brutality that was consuming her and makes her come back human, allowing her to go on through  acceptance and to abandon that desire for revenge that leads to nothing (and has taken away everything).  Ellie finally understands which direction to look.
3293) The Last of us 2 was so gripping while playing as Ellie. Lost the motivation to play as Abby tho.
3294) From a narrative point of view, The Last of Us Part II opts for some daring prejudices, either by its realistic temporal approach which allows to highlight the difficulty of crossing such a world, or the fact of proposing a scenario particularly  divider whose orientation should generate some lively debates.  It is however difficult not to salute the execution, largely due to a gallery of successful characters and whose credibility is ensured by meticulous work of characterization and deepening.  Cutscenes, gameplay sequences, optional exchanges or even scattered notes and documents: Naughty Dog does not neglect any support to bring depth to its scenario and its protagonists.  These biases can certainly cause a few lengths, but these last demonstrate their usefulness at  time of being moved by the fate of a character: without such work upstream, it is not certain that The Last of Us  Part II would have managed to hit the mark with his narrative proposal.
3295) amazing  game,fully apreciated, i ilked the story, gameplay and everything else
3296) Absolutely loved it!,I'm sorry some people couldn't handle it.,I'm gonna go ng+ soon
3297) The story:,The backlash that this game has received confirms that Naughty Dog accomplished what they set out to do. The story is as polarizing and self-sabotaging as every decision the player character(s) and supporting characters make. The solution is simple: to be apart of the intense and passionate discussions surrounding TLOU2 in an honest way, you need to play it for yourself. You can't experience certain parts of the game through a youtube video--you need to be the one to hit square on the controller to fully experience it. Whether you like the story or not, you cannot deny that it is compelling and evokes extreme self-reflection. I truly grieved for each character the way I would for my own friends and family.,,The gameplay:,As a casual gamer, I thoroughly enjoyed the gameplay mechanics. Compared to the first installment, TLOU2 is extremely inventive and provides endless possibilities to accomplish the same goal. There are much fewer monotonous "Go grab that ladder"-type scenarios. I've already played through the game twice and have watched while several of my friends play through it on my console, and each time I discover new details. The boss battles are much harder and more frustrating than the first one, but beating them is just that much sweeter.,,Overall, this game will be the center of discussion for a long time. The initial wave of hate will die off, and Naughty Dog will continue to be one of the top names in the industry for their groundbreaking storytelling and thoroughly enjoyable gameplay.
3298) I really have to admit that I really liked this game.  No matter what you have heard or read, play this game for yourself. Enough is already been said about this game but in my eyes this was really a unique experience that deserves to be played. This is just my personal opinion, so feel free to think what you will about this  :p
3299) Masterpiece in storytelling when you are not blind of hate like Ellie and Abby, see what ND wants to tell,  an unique story, where nobody is good or evil. Amazing graphics, stunning story!
3300) Since its clear most the negative reviews are from people that never played this game I am going to give this a 10 despite thinking it could be lower just to counteract the review bombing.  This game had more reviews in the first 3 hours than the first game did in 7 years,  so its quite clear that none of those reviewers have played the game and simply review bombing based on the leaks.
3301) A **** masterpiece. Loved everything, the ending not so much but i understood the point of it. In the horrible world of the tlous no one is truly evil or good. I think the game did a good job of exploring that. The graphics, voice acting, gameplay, and writing were all amazing. Not going to say much more than that. BTW WOMEN CAN HAVE FKN MUSCLES FFS.
3302) Simply, I love this game with all of my heart. Please please please do not listen to the negative reviews.
3303) This is very nice game. 12/10,Go buy and rate 10/10,Lets go baby,I go to sleep
3304) This game is honestly something we didn’t want but that we needed , it does things that many games don’t even attempt because it gets reactions like this one had. Story wise , this is one of the finest stories and more impactful in either a Negative or Positive way, for me it was a positive one but it was not an immediate reaction , I wasn’t sure how I felt , I felt hopeless after the game , but the more I analyze it, the better it gets. My complaints are simple, unlike able characters , weak dialogue at times , and forced themes throughout with ideas that the story could work without them anyways. A lot of people see this as a bad thing , but I just think they weren’t necessarily needed for the story. Gameplay wise this is the funnest game I’ve played since god of war 2018, it’s action-intense packed and I love it.
3305) I found the character shift in the middle of the game to be jarring, but I was also intrigued.  Within an hour, I started to find the new character far more sympathetic.  By the end, I had come to care about her nearly as much as Ellie. Well done. A fantastic game.
3306) Awsome game  i love it ALL the experience ALL the emoticons and The visual of The game até increible
3307) I hated the story and the writers as much as everyone,  of course i didn't want Joel being killed by some ma'am, but as the game goes on you realised that it is masterfully crafted, like, i really hated abby, but you can't avoid to feel some kind of empathy for her. I love this game cause it was brave and it did things that could have gone awful, but it worked so ewell that now i even like Abby, my man's killer.,I'm sure that almost everyone who disliked this game, didn't even played it, like, i get it, maybe some people didn't get to connect with abby, but c'mon, it's a good game and it can't fail so bad when it is that great.,And c'mon, don't disrespect my man Neil, he write the first one, at least save your words for him just because of your love to the first game
3308) The best and the deepest story game in my entire life. Thank you Naughty Dog for this.
3309) Truly stunning work of art and a next step in gaming industry. Must buy for everyone
3310) Once again, Naughty Dog raises the bar for what can be done in the video game medium. A beautifully painful story with some of the most realistic characters (in both graphics and writing) I’ve seen.
3311) Absolutely loved it. The fact that a lot of people hate it is because the game takes strong choices that can make feel the players a lot of pain. That kind of intensity is what i think makes the game so great, plus the graphics are really spectacular, it is truly a next gen looking game.
3312) I think it was really fun and had a lot of detail this 75 character thing is dumb. Please just know that the game is fun
3313) I adored the first game, it was one of the first games I’d played outside of the platformer/racing genre and certainly the first survival horror – I hated zombies.  But the first one just drew me in and made me love it, in large part due to the relationship between Joel and Ellie but mostly Ellie’s character, I just loved her.  First of all, the graphics, the atmosphere, the immersiveness were 10/10 for me.  I was on the edge of my seat so many times, heart racing, holding my breath, I yelled at my OH a few times for making noise in case the clickers heard me.  The soundtrack, ramping up the volume as I got closer to combat, the noise when I could be seen by an enemy, the first whistle by the Seraphites - all just added to the fear, the panic and experience.  I got so into it. The gameplay for me was a step up from the first one, it was cleaner, it was more imaginative – I enjoyed the new actions such as going prone and climbing ropes – blatantly lifted from Uncharted, but I enjoyed it nonetheless. I did miss the controller sounds – both when shaking the flashlight and the clickers – the sound of the clickers through the controller in Pt1 put the fear of god in me like nothing else ever did. I went in blind to the story, I had no idea about what was going to happen. I knew opinions were divided, and I was nervous because I wanted to love it, I really did.  I didn’t know who Dina was and it took me so long to like her. TBH Jesse barely registered, and maybe it says a lot about me but but I wasn't that fussed when he died.  I couldn’t wait for the inevitable moment when I got to smash Abby’s head in. And then the split happened, and I hated it, I sped through her Day 1 as quickly as I could and I thought this is dragging and I knew that the bad reviews were right, and they’d ruined it and I was so annoyed, but I’d looked forward to it enough to continue going…and I fell for it hook line and sinker, I started to empathise with her, I felt like I understood her. I adored the parallels between the stories, and how her story explained part of Ellie’s – the zebra was her giraffe. The aquarium was her museum. Her relationship with Lev had echoes of Joel’s relationship with Ellie to me. The easter eggs were great – I yelled out loud when I found the Sic Parvis Magna ring in the bank. Don’t get me wrong – my loyalty will be forever with Joel and Ellie - the museum scene, and the guitar scenes, and the flashback at the end where they decide to try and rebuild their relationship ruined me and I’m tearing up even thinking about it – and if I had to choose it would be Ellie all day long. But I loved that my empathy with Abby’s character made me feel remorse for what I’d done as Ellie. Playing fetch with Alice broke my heart and I genuinely cried. I could take or leave Nora (definitely cheered when Ellie called her the C word), Owen (what a dick) and Mel (pregnant, but a **** and with issues around controlling her boyfriend) but the dogs really hurt ☹,When it got to the theatre fight I was chanting to myself “please don’t make me kill Ellie” but equally at the end fight I was “please don’t make me kill Abby”. I get why people didn’t like it.  Such a brutal decision so early on is so polarising and I can totally see why people didn’t warm to Abby – as Mel put it, she was a piece of **** But forcing me to realise the consequences of Ellie’s actions and that I was just repeating what she had gone through really got to me and I really wanted them to get to that “it’s not worth it” moment. And I was glad that they did and I got an incredible experience – it was enjoyable but it was also stressful and scary (I haven’t even mentioned the rat king!) and I loved every second of it because it wasn’t the typical a-to-z teenager gets revenge for her father story (of which there are many, clearly).  Overall, hats off to ND for an emotionally challenging, thought provoking, ****-my-pants-at-times experience.
3314) Thanks ND and all people who helped create this masterpiece. Look for the light.
3315) in my opinion , this the best game i've ever played in this year, the most awaited for all the gamers, maybe the part of the story of the game that happened with joel is the most tragic, and for that reason , a lot of people are angry for this situation , but, The Graphics, Story , and all the game, for me, it´s perfect.
3316) 7 years of waiting, but it was absolutely worth it! As legendary as the first one was,shocking story, brutal graphics and a game play that never gets boring. A masterpiece!
3317) After Waiting So Long For This Game To Release I Can Say It Was Really Good Wit It's Strongest Points Being It's Game play And Mainly Stealth Mechanics Which Are The Best I Have Ever Seen In A Game Before! But The Story Which Everyone Is Saying Is Horrible Is Utter Nonsense, The Story Is Some Of The Best In A Form Of Media With Being Very On Par With The Original Part 1, Granted There Are Parts Which Annoy People Yes But Ignoring That The Story Is Great And If You Look Past The Negatives It Is Very Good.
3318) The initially low user score reflects unfortunate review bombing by people who dislike the themes and representations within the game before release, or by people who were unhappy that the story didn't play out how they wanted it to.,Naughty Dog have done a great job of polarising players. Whatever your take on it, you can't deny the care and attention the team poured into this game. Like the devs said: part 1 is about love, part 2 is about hate. They're able to present a story using this medium that they couldn't in film, and that's fine by me.,I honestly don't understand the "lazy writing" or "political agenda" narratives. You're playing damaged individuals who are consumed by hate and vengeance. If your expectation is that you'll play a game with the same uplifting character development as the first game, you'll be sorely disappointed. The whole point is you're experiencing the descent into unadulterated hate above all else.,As for representation of LGBT and race: it's not forced into the story to tick the diversity box. It's a relationship. The last relationship Ellie might have, and how she balances that against the all consuming memories of her past. The fact that she's female is irrelevant.,ND told the story they wanted to tell. Love it or hate it, it's up to you.
3319) great game, loved the combat and scenery. the story wasn’t the best but the gameplay definitely made the game stay strong to me. overall i did really enjoy the game.
3320) Despite the small flaws in the game play (like the underused rope mechanic and lack of open area you can explore after seattle day 1)  THE STORY set the bar to a new high.,No piece of media that i previously consume compares to what this game made me feel, and it will be a long time before something like this happens again.
3321) What a beautiful game! Heart- and gut-wrenching. Easily the best acting and writing I have ever seen in a video game.
3322) The game is sad just the first part, i wait a long time to play this second part.  I hope the third part doesn't take that long.
3323) A deep, complex and reflective game that needs maturity to understand.,A masterpiece, GOTY from that year.
3324) Incredible game, impeccable story, close the narrative circle with praise!!
3325) Simply awesome game, the graphics sometimes makes you feel like you are playing a movie, the action sequences are pure adrenaline, the horror factor is superb, and the story in my opinion is very well done and the characters blend in just perfectly, i thought i was going to hate Abby but it was the very opposite  so that being said this game must be played with an open mind, i really don't understand why so much hate and negativity this game is receiving.
3326) Masterpiece! Best graphics and sound design of any game. Environment design is incredible. The story takes you on an emotional rollercoaster and challenges you to ask questions of everything you thought you knew about these characters and the world. If you have been turned off by the leaks and review bombing do yourself justice and will experience it on your own.
3327) It's an incredibly beautiful but also sad game that made me feel happy, sad, angry, revengeful, calm and crazy, sometimes all at the same time.,It's very bold and some choices surprised me, and I found myself sympathising with characters I wasn't expecting. The graphics are stunning (obviously) and gameplay is terrific and so immersive, much better than the first.,Overall, people are mostly butthurt one of their favourite characters didn't have a happy ending, but even though I was incredibly sad, it made me invest even more time in the story and the characters, and the journey was worth it. And I will do it all over again.
3328) Amazing immersive gameplay from start to finish. The options and ways to can get through a situation were impressive, and I loved and was moved/conflicted by the story. Can't wait to start New Game+.  Maybe my favorite game of the year.
3329) Brilliant gameplay, fantastic story and excellent accessibility.  A very unic game!
3330) A true masterpiece. But should be played only to open minded players. I saw many idiots complaining about Abby's action, complaining about Ellie and Dina relationship. Guys i don t know but we are in 2020 and reading some medieval comments it's embarassing. Go play Fifa please.
3331) An incredibly interesting story, that I haven't been able to stop thinking about since finishing the game. Obviously the game looks and plays great, as one would expect from a Naughty Dog game, but it is the story that elevates it to a masterpiece. Bravo!
3332) The game is incredible, thoughtfully written and incredibly intense. The gameplay mechanics have improved over the first game drastically and the combat is a heart pounding experience. The story is richly layered and resonates on an emotional level If you’re a person capable of feeling empathy. Disregard your preconceived notions and Challenge yourself to look deeper into the characters at their humanity. What an experience
3333) The game is a masterpiece, the story of both characters are breathtaking! Abby's story is so well intertwined with the history of the first part and actually fit in  so well, definitely reccomend!
3334) Absolutely the greatest game ever made. What a masterpiece of story telling.
3335) A truly unique experience, has powerful meanings and really touches your emotions. A graphically beautiful game with superbly cinematic gameplay. Naughty Dog has made a masterpiece yet again.
3336) Incredible game, you can feel every emotion, the angrr, the tension, the joy, the sadness, grief, loss, everything through well writen characters, with personality, motivations, got me chills many times. That's great level writing and storytelling you don't find anywhere else. Love the game.
3337) It’s a great game. The TL;DR here is that most people who are review bombing either haven’t played it, or are traumatized that a character they really liked died... which actually speaks volumes about how good the writing is. Almost like the characters are written in such a likable and believable way, that people would be so worked up and emotional about their death that they’re sending threats to the developers.,It’s similar to something like Game of Thrones, where G.R.R wasn’t afraid to set up cool and interesting characters just to kill them off abruptly in the same book. And while it totally sucked, it sucked because I liked the characters, not because I thought the writing was bad. It just reflects the reality of living in a harsh world. People die. People walk into the wrong place at the wrong time and die. People get cocky or let their guard down and die. People you love may have made bad decisions that come back to haunt them... and they die. That’s the world characters in The Last of Us live in.,And onto the idea that they’re forcing diversity and making this game political... that’s total bs. The diversity that they show in the game probably simply reflects the diversity of the people that make the game. Not only that, but there’s no character that’s like LOOK AT ME! IM THE GAY ONE! Or IM THE BLACK ONE! They’re simply... people. Some of them happen to not be straight, happen to not be white, or identify as a different gender. Just like in real life. If you don’t like that, then maybe you need to travel a little bit and meet some more people.,Also Abby is a woman and she could probably bench press a car. It’s also a reflection of her character that makes perfect sense in the context of her story. How the F is that political?!,If you played and liked the first one, you’ll be emotionally invested to play this one. Simple as that.,Gameplay-wise, everything is improved and expanded in the first one. The levels are physically bigger and give you plenty more choices on how you want to tackle an encounter. Exploration is also very deep with a lot of thought given to the story behind the environments. I can expect to find certain items in bathrooms, others in office spaces, etc. so if I’m running low on tape, I’m on the lookout for an office space, instead of opening every drawer in an abandoned building.,As far as criticism goes, I do have some. I think the game goes on for a bit too long, and there are at least 3 spots I thought were the ending (and I was happy with it) and then it kept going for several more hours. I think at least one big section could be cut from the Ellie section and another from the Abby section and I’d be very happy with the length. That’s it.,Also ND owes me an extra pair of pants because that infected boss literally scared the crap out of me.
3338) Best game! most favorite! Thanks Neil Druckmann, thanks to everyone who worked on this game! everyone you are best! ❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️
3339) Sad it gets such bad reviews. If you look at the score from people who actually played it it gets really good scores.
3340) Stunning game. Can not believe so many people hate it because they don't like what happens in this game, it's great and unique storytelling when you understand what the story is about!
3341) Masterpiece. This game presents a story worthy of Oscar, with a complete enlargement of the first game, a very satisfying gameplay. The negative reviews were caused by naughty dog, lying in the trailers and not presenting Abby properly, bringing the game an experience that few expected. However, the story remains brilliant, and the game is worth a score of 10. I feel sorry for the   developers suffering child attacks from people with weak minds however, I admire the courage to go against the tide. People were not ready to The Last of Us Part II.
3342) This game surpasses most movies and novels with an uncompromising vision for the story it must tell. Naughty dog has crafted more than a game and simply reducing it to nothing more would be asinine. The Last of Us 2 skirts the line of moral ambiguity in the name of artistic expression and for that there are people that won’t appreciate what it tries to convey, hence the overwhelming negative reviews. If you enjoyed the first game you must ask yourself why. Why did you enjoy a game set in a post apocalyptic world hellbent on making survival for humans so difficult? The first game tells Joel’s story and within minutes rips your heart out of your chest forcing you to feel the way Joel does. While progressing through the game you meet Ellie and both characters establish a Father Daughter relationship that gets tested numerous times only to become stronger at the end. Joel does some heinous things in the name of love. Ellie witnessed all of it and the player at the end is left with a moral dilemma as to whether it was okay for Joel to betray the trust of the only person he cares about. The Last of Us 2 takes us on a journey about what it means to love and at what cost we do things that may go against our moral fiber. Let’s get this out of the way... Joel isn’t a hero. Ellie isn’t a hero. There are no heroes in this game. No good versus bad only people doing what they feel they must to survive. Who are we (the player) to decide what is right and wrong? The game forces you into an uncomfortable perspective many people will push against. It will evoke anger, frustration, sadness, happiness, despair and hope through many of the cleverly placed cutscenes throughout that make up the game’s narration. It begs to be played more than once and will gladly provide you with perspective “IF” you as a player keep an open mind to accept it for what it is rather than what it isn’t. This is not a love letter to fans. It’s not a happy game and will likely leave you with a gaping void right through the middle of you after it’s finished. The graphics are some of the best we’ve seen this generation. The sound is nothing but high quality from the effects to the sound of gunfire in the distance. Voice acting rivals that of Oscar performances in movies and the music fits perfectly. This is a game that is finely crafted and isn’t afraid to show you in the least what it’s capable of. Make no mistake, this isn’t just gaming at its finest. It’s nothing short of gaming nirvana and will undoubtedly leave you breathless if you’re willing to step into it’s world and play by it’s rules.
3343) Left me speechless.. It's the best work of fiction I have ever experienced. It's a brilliant continuation to the original masterpiece. I got me riled up like nothing else. It'll test your emotions, your morals..fudge. I absolutely love and appreciate every bit of details in this masterpiece.
3344) Wonderful game with great character growth! So much better than I ever could of imagined for a sequel.
3345) The best game of this generation,Pros: level design, face expressions (owwww), the story and the narrative, gameplay, combats.,Cons: loooooong explorations, medium AI, some characters can be more explored.
3346) Oh what an emotional ride! This game takes you through a roller-coast of emotions, it takes *you*, the player, and smacks you into a physiological experiment that opens your eyes (or others’) to see how one can handle their emotions, it tests your EQ. It definitely is not a game for immature youngsters. Graphics are excellent, gameplay mechanics are fantastic, challenges are challenging but not impossible. A lot of “holy s**t” moments that tie the story together and (can) open players’ eyes to (in)humanity. Amazing game!
3347) Beautiful game. Complex and tragic story that requires a certain level of emotional intelligence to understand fully. Indeed, I'm still coming to terms with the characters actions, why they made them and their implications on the ones they love.,,The story is set in an unsympathetic, cruel and dark world where morals come and go like the wind. People show kindness and warmth, but are susceptible to a change where they show an inner, uglier strength that has kept them alive this long.,,I'd probably give the game a 7/10 based solely on the graphics, acting and music which are all absolutely phenomenal. Throw in some really enjoyable gameplay (which is similar to the first game, and still great) and you've got yourself a game that's extremely addictive. Now throw in a mesmerising story that invites you to partake in some hauntingly beautiful moments, and some grotesque and tragic ones. You'll be laughing and crying throughout the game.,,If you haven't played it, I hope you do!
3348) A superb game.everything Is great,graphics, Gameplay,Ellie ,how she starts to.change AND the fact that there are no good guys or bad
3349) TLOU Part 2 makes TLOU like a well-made indie game.,,The subject has become more profound, the scale has become larger, and the story that is essential in these days is strongly explained.
3350) A wonderful telling of the world and characters beyond the first game. The world And graphics are beautifully put together. Unfortunately some seem to have never given this game a chance and decided to attack it without playing it. Don’t be like them and go in with an open mind.
3351) Masterpiece. The plot leaks simply don’t do it justice. Go in with a open mind and realize this is a new story. ND does the impossible and makes you empathize with a character you thought you never could. Best graphics I’ve ever seen and gameplay is improved in every way
3352) I absolutely loved the original Last of Us and I thoroughly enjoyed the Last of Us part 2.  This game took risks that, in my opinion, payed off.  This game gets you emotionally and psychologically in ways I did not expect.  I managed to avoid all trailers, except for the very first one that came out, articles and talk about this game as I did not want it ruined for me.  The original is my favorite game of all time and this may be my second.
3353) The story of the game is incredible for those who have maturity to understand it. The way in which it is told was excellent, in addition to the great graphics and very fluid gameplay. Naughty Dog did a really great job.
3354) Emotions after the game go through the roof.  At the same time, playing the game is pleasant, interesting and atmospheric, for me there is no need more, 10/10
3355) The game was simply great. The graphics were the best I’ve seen on PS4, and the gameplay was phenomenal. The story is still the best part of the game though. The way it makes you question every single one of your decisions, and shows the cycle of violence, can’t be described in words.
3356) This game coincidently met the types of stories in general that I prefer. It's very deep, dark and unique. I love it!
3357) Probably one of the best games ever created Graphics 9/10 (ps4 things meh),Gameplay 10/10,Story (the story is incredible if a) you arent a bigot or a complete idiot b) you dont have some magical fan fiction prewritten in your head before you start the game c) you are a functional human being that can experience emphaty
3358) Absolutely beautiful game, sizing up to the first one, story may not be quite on par, but its close call.,Absolutely don't get why this game gets so much hate, just because one of their favourite character dies in a brutal way or because of the ending being far from the happy one.,Anyway, it was en epic journey, thanks Naughty Dog.
3359) The detail put into this game is astonishing. I really hate that people are review bombing the game because they don’t agree with some of the decision making. Naught Dog worked very hard on this game and it shows. The Story, Graphics, Sound Direction and emotional impact this game has is unparalleled. This game with have me thinking about it for a very long time.
3360) I got completely hooked by the story and characters. Made me feel uncomfortable at times, in a good way. Made me questioned things. Music great as always. Beautiful graphics.
3361) People who hate this game for story is wrong,Story is not bad Only they don't like it because it's a story that has never been seen so far
3362) Finished the game. Really the best ND's work yet. Story is controversial, but still is really good. Gameplay is sublime.
3363) The greatest game of the generation and a story-telling milestone.,The change of perspective in this game is something you never experienced before! It's a triumph. The many debates about it are proof that this is a true work of art and one of the most important interactive experiences ever. If TLoU1 was gamings Citizen Kane moment, then TLoU2 is, don't know, maybe gamings L'Avventura or Breathless moment, when new ways of story-telling were explored, when directors were radical. I love Naughty Dog for their courage and I'm very thankful. That was one hell of an emotional rollercoaster! :-)
3364) With the first chapter, this is one of the best game I played so far.,Finally a game that is not only a trivial game, but it try to inspire reflection in people.
3365) Spoiler free. Clearly the terrible reviews since release of the game where made by people who haven't even played the whole game until the end. The decisions that naughty dog made with tlou2 were brave. It all makes sense if you finished the game. This game is a masterpiece and deserves to be GOTY
3366) From gaming mechanics, gameplay to the graphics and gore its one of the finest in every aspect, Its an Experience. Cant say more.
3367) A true masterpiece. Now this is my favorite game. And by far the best game of the decade.
3368) A deeply harrowing experience that pushes the envelope on narrative direction in video games.
3369) The best game on ps4 and most impressive game since mgs2. Naughty Dog made an absolute masterpiece of interactive media.
3370) A masterpiece in every aspect of the game, graphics, sound design, gameplay, music and of course story and character arcs.
3371) Not sure why this game has received the amount of hate that it has when it had such a complex story and characters as well as fantastic gameplay. It's a game that when you finish you cannot stop thinking about and although it is dark, you want to replay it again straight afterwards to see if your feelings have changed from the first play. Every single voice actor did an amazing job as each of their characters and the graphics were beautiful. Will definitely play again!
3372) Mr. Aleksey Shevtsov said that the game is good. Well, what am I going to argue with him?,i myself have no opportunity to play, but Alexsey's opinion is the ultimate truth for me on this 10/10
3373) Great game. Shocking and brutal combat. Took me places few other games have. Different story archetype than the first game. Stands on it's own. Wonderful graphics and visuals, great combat system.
3374) Issa masterpiece. Not many games have dared to attempt things that this one does very well.
3375) This game challenged me as a player and I don't think it's unfair to say it made me better as a person.
3376) Not a perfect game, but one of the bravest and most thought provoking game designs in a long while. The story is dripping with moral ambiguity (something the gaming community has been crying out for for years) and is a chilling reflection on the realities of war. Whilst the gameplay remains similar to the first, the combat is brutal and visceral. Some of the initial gameplay was a bit slow, but the experience rapidly built as the game progressed, ending in a crescendo that left me with shivers. Some set pieces actually left me laughing in surprise and enjoyment. All in all, a game that has its flaws, but  deserves recognition for going where no other publisher will go.
3377) The best game ever,Pd: F Joel
3378) A wonderful tale in the horrible world of The Last of Us ! I've finished it after 54hours of play-time and just...WHOA ! What a amazing adventure ! Even better than the first one ! Game like this are very rare... You need to play it, at least once in your life and I hope you'll feel what I felt when I was playing it. For me it's a truly masterpiece  that we are not about to forgot... just like the first one !,Well done Naughty Dog !
3379) The action game play is stellar and tons of fun. Really top-notch Naughty Dog style combat.,This game will stick with me for a while. The story takes players down some roads exploring the nature of vengeance, redemption, and the relativity of morality.,The story line definitely didn't go the direction I expected, and that's OK. The story was instead much more appropriate to the world in which the characters live. It's a gritty, dark world. This is a great story about how the last of us humans might act at the end of our line.,This game will definitely make you feel something.
3380) I do not care what people say. I loved the story, i loved the game and it is a fantastic experience worth playing.
3381) this game caused me a lot of emotions....and i'm happy. It is realy cool game.
3382) It was such a rollercoaster of emotions - only Druckmann and ND could make me love Abby by the end of the game
3383) Some games transcend genre, and "The Last of Us II" is one of those games. "Survival Horror/Survival Action" is not typically on my radar. I'm an RPG and sports game guy, but when a huge game like this comes along, I usually give it a shot. I played the first installment in this series on last gen, and I liked it a lot, but I don't remember liking it as much as "The Last of Us II".,STORY:,Somehow, Naughty Dog is able to go out of its way to be more "inclusive" than a junior college brochure without being obnoxious. I fell in love with all of the protagonists, and in the final analysis, the individuality and humanity of each character shone through enough to make me forget any intent of the writers to try to check all of the politically correct racial, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, etc boxes. That's quite an accomplishment in itself, and puts the focus of the story where it should be in my opinion: to make the audience identify with the characters, or at least feel what the characters feel. When that happens, the importance of group identity falls by the wayside, and the common humanity within all of us becomes the focus.,GAMEPLAY:,This game kept me always feeling like I was just a bit under-practiced and under-prepared for the combat I was facing, which I suppose is what the survival genre is supposed to feel like. The controls are intuitive, the game plays very smoothly with minimal glitches, and I always felt challenged and engaged.,GRAPHICS/SOUND:,I'm not much of a graphics snob, but in my humble opinion, this game is BEAUTIFUL. Again, minimal glitches. It's obvious that an incredible amount of care and attention to detail was put into the creation of this world. The score in this game is excellent: as I'm looking back on it, I "felt" it more than I noticed it, and that's a high compliment in my book. The choice of soundtrack and the performances of the songs were just right. A few memorable ones, some of them tear-jerkers.,OVERALL THOUGHTS,This game is not perfect. It's a video game. However, it's close enough to perfect that it might as well be. I can't imagine a much better product being made with current hardware. There are certain small gripes I have with this game that are mostly just part and parcel of the genre that this game belongs to. However, this game is more than just a survival game in the same way that "There Will Be Blood" is more than just a movie about an oil man.,"The Last of Us II" made me enjoy doing some things I thought I wouldn't enjoy, appreciate some things I thought I'd cringe at, and feel some things I didn't expect a game could make me feel.,If that doesn't sound appealing, then you probably shouldn't buy this game.,How this game could have an average user score of 5.3 at the writing of this review is beyond me. Like I said, I'm not deep in the world of this genre or this IP, so maybe most fans of the original were expecting something completely different. Regardless of their expectations, to not have a healthy respect for the sheer quality of craftsmanship this game displays is puzzling to me.
3384) Another masterpiece. Just like the first game. The game looks amazing and plays wonderfully too. The violence is brutal and shows what a person would have to become just to survive in that hostile world. The exploration is fun and finding and reading notes are a great world building device.
3385) Im sure that this game is one of the best that I played in all my life. Probably has been the best. A lot of thanks Naughty Dog for this master piece.
3386) As a fan of the first game, I had high expectations for this and I wasn’t disappointed. The gameplay is great, the combat, both shooting and melee, feels terrific and the stealth is improved with new terrain to use to your advantage and great level design. The soundtrack and voice performances are on par with the first game, which is to say they’re great. Storywise, I would have liked if some of the new characters had more screen time to get to know them better, and the pacing could feel off at times, but I still throughly enjoyed the game.
3387) Greatest game in the past few years. Pulls the heart strings really hard people hating on this game just think they can write a better story than the professionals. Its great!
3388) This game is truly amazing. Even tho it left me as an emotional wreck it was exceptional experience.
3389) BEST  GAME of all times.,Great story, characters, gameplay.,Thanks, Sony and Naughty Dog.
3390) The user ratings for this game is ridiculous. TLOU 2 is the very best narrative driven game to have been crafted. Models and environments are highly detailed, voice acting, sound, music, story are of the highest quality. The gameplay mechanics are also fun, leaning heavily into the stealth genre with a bit of survival mechanics baked in that vary depending on what level of difficulty you play. The devs were also very generous in content in terms of how much there is to see as well as game length. Get the game now if you have disposable income and care to experience the bleeding edge of game tech, or wait until it drops to 40$ and buy it then. Either way you won’t be disappointed and won’t have missed out on experiencing first hand this wonderful work of art.
3391) A masterpiece in design and story telling. Don't listen to the haters. The gameplay is familiar to the first game with many welcome changes. Very emotional experience, not without it's minor flaws. Definitely worth giving a chance.
3392) It took me two full weeks to make my way though the game, and let me tell you, the writing and direction of the game is unlike anything you've played before. Don't be fooled by the negative reviews. Most of the people who bomb reviewed the game didn't play it, and the rest did not get te actual point of the story.,If you a fan of films like "Se7en" or "Fallen" you will like the story very much. If you expect a good vs evil story, where the "good" guys win in the end, you will be disappointed. This is a piece of entertainment art for mature audiences, who can follow through a deeper plot than "Avengers" or "Transformers"
3393) Immense! Far too many idiots read nonsense comments about Anita Sarkeesian influencing this game and then they rated it badly. They couldn’t have been more wrong.
3394) The user score for this is absolute nonsense, it was bombed by idiots that hadn’t played it hours after release or by people that felt a certain character had a “disrespectful” death. I have never left a metacrtic review before but felt obliged after seeing how low the score was. This game is a masterpiece and everyone at naughty dog deserves the highest of praise. The story, the acting and the music are all phenomenal, easily one of the best revenge stories I’ve ever come across on any medium. Ignore all  was
3395) A game like no other. A story unlike anything you've ever played. A breathtaking visual presentation. To call this a masterpiece doesn't do the game enough  justice. It's a stunning achievement. Thanks, Naughty Dog, for making this the best game of all time.
3396) If this is what people's idea of a bad game is, then I'm happy to say I have **** taste and I want more.,,I am absolutely amazed by the game's graphic, sound, battle system, art style, map design, enemy AI. And also the new method of story telling that challenges what made the 1st game great, some people may hate the game for it, but to me it is actually the best part of the game.,,While I love the game, i will admit it is not perfect. I did notice some elements through out the gameplay that I instantly knew will displease some players (myself included), but the amount of hate towards the game was not expected at all.,But again, some of the things that people disliked did not even occur to me during the gameplay.,,Anyway, as someone who loved the first game and also managed to love this one, I really think it is a game that everyone should give it a go.
3397) The most beautiful game on ps4, the quality of the stages is world championship.  Many curiosities posted by the creators.  Beautiful character animations, great AI opponents.  Improved gameplay compared to the previous part.  fight and exploration is a great pleasure.  Many shocking and touching moments in the main story.  Characters played well by actors.
3398) This game is divisive. Extremely so. There are criticisms that can be levelled at it because nothing is literally perfect. But, in terms of showcasing the extent of what art can do to a person, I honestly believe this game to be the pinnacle of it. It's divisive because it will force you to feel. A lot of people don't want to be forced to have an emotional reaction to something. That being said, I don't rate this game a 10 out of 10 because of the feelings it gave me, I rate it a 10 out of 10 due to its ability to give them to me to begin with. No piece of media has ever made me cry with joy, made me sick to my stomach, made me feel love or hatred the way this game has. I was able to go into this game blind, and it was the most profoundly impactful experience I've ever had ingesting a piece of content, of any medium. Please, don't let it be spoiled for you. People are upset about this game because it WILL upset you. They're angry at the game because it WILL make you angry. But the purpose of this game is to reflect on the way that a person processes these feelings. If that isn't of interest to you, by all means, go and play anything else. This game requires bravery to face having to work through these feelings, but doing so is unbelievably rewarding. You're free to hate what you want, but this is a piece of work that many people have bled for, and it is deserving of your time. It isn't deserving of watching a YouTube run through, it isn't deserving of reading a synopsis on Wikipedia. If you can play this game, you really should, because bravery in this industry needs to be commended and, wow, The Last of Us Part II is brave; and incredible, and fun, and beautiful. It's everything that makes a great game, and it's backed by the most profoundly told story I've ever seen in Western media. This game deserves your time and your money.
3399) The Last of Us Part II is perfect in all aspects. I've cried several times, more than all other games that I've already played taken together. It's definitely a MASTERPIECE!!!
3400) A next generation game ! And one if the most adult ans clever game of  all time ! A masterpiece
3401) The Last of Us Part II is a more-than-worthy sequel to the excellent The Last Of Us, bringing familiar themes and gameplay elements while breaking new ground in the realm of dramatic narratives in video games. The end result is a harrowing and subversive story that effectively portrays the symmetry and reactive nature of the main characters' bloody pursuit for personal vindication. This, along with gripping gameplay and masterful art design, combine to form what is one of the boldest and most impressive video game experiences to date.
3402) Just loved it. Magnificent from start to finish. The only game to make me love the antagonist just as much as the protagonist. Naughty dog took risks with this game and they paid off, in my opinion. Tragic endings sometimes are the best way.
3403) Great gameplay, great scenario, great characters, insane graphics. Neil Druckmann is new ГЕНИЙ
3404) Best game I’ve ever experienced hands down, graphics 10/10 characters 10/10 actors 10/10 story line 10/10
3405) I created an account here just to give my opinion on this game. I see nothing but hate for having to play as Abby and people giving low scores because a beloved character was killed within hours of starting the game. That one scene should not warrant a low score! Everything about this game is phenomenal. The graphics, the music, the tension and the emotional roller coaster it took me on will never leave my mind. This story in this game kept me awake at night thinking about what is going to happen next or finding reasoning why a character did the things they did. The writers and directors clearly had a vision for this game and what transcended was an experience that not even a movie could make me feel. Seeing the story unfold from two different perspectives and seeing the two main characters juggle the same issues was awesome. Do yourself a favor and play this game and do not listen to all the crybabys badging the game! Life is not always rainbows. Bad things happen to innocent, good people everyday. This game is a masterpiece! Play it!
3406) This game is worthy of 5 stars. It is a beautiful game to look at and play! It made me feel such a range of emotions, from crying with sadness, squealing in glee and shouting at the TV as it had made me jump for the 50 millionth time!,,The theme of this game is revenge and how that emotion can build up inside a person and has the potential to destroy everything.,I think to enjoy this game fully you need to have the ability to empathize with all the characters in the game, yes, it didn't end how I wanted it too but that doesn't mean I hate it, far from it. As the game progressed Characters I hated I grew to love and characters I loved I grew to despair, that is the power of good writing and a good story.,,Ashley Johnson and Laura Bailey are amazing actors and deserve so much praise for what they achieved. All the actors do, it was like being immersed in a movie for 13 nights in a row.,All I can say to people reading this review is to please play the game and make your own opinion. If even you wait a year so get it cheaper, just please go on this journey.,,My only negative....why do I have to open so many draws only to have nothing inside it?! haha.
3407) I absolutely loved this game top to bottom. Beautiful graphics, gripping story, solid outing and a true contender for Game of the Year. Bravo, Naughty Dog.
3408) Amazing game. In my opinion it is up to par with the first. Would I have liked some things to go differently? Of course, but that’s what’s great about it. It was bold, brutal, sympathetic, and melancholy. Great job Naughty Dog.
3409) The game is amasing emotional beautifull and very fun.,It will be one of my favorit games 4 ever
3410) This is graphically beautiful game with improved game play from the first. It does not feel antiquated in my opinion. The story is great if you like realistic character motivation and growth. Overall just amazing. I almost never play story focused games a second time but I will with this one.
3411) Another amazing Naughty Dog game. Unlike what others are currently saying, the story is extremely captivating. Joel's death was saddening for all those that played the first game, but in my opinion, was necessary to continue the story with Ellie. Graphics are excellent as always, and the game mechanics were familiar and enjoyable.
3412) People who cant sympathize with Abby are not emotionally mature enough to empathize.,They can't possibly understand that in the world Joel and Ellie live in, you are always going to be the villain to someone else.
3413) I’m just speechless. WHAT A GAME! Naughty Dog did it again. Congratulations to Neil Druckmann and his superb team of developers and cast.,TLOU 2 is literally a game-changing for the games industry.,MASTERPIECE,10/10
3414) It's about 20 hours to feel, hate, understand and forgive choices and actions. The journey of vengeance, the loss, the pain and the lives in a world with uncertainty future. For me is GOTY for sure! Play and feel the history, and forget the rest!
3415) I really enjoyed the experience this game brought me. It made me feel some very complex emotions that were new to me. I could barely put it down after I started, and it took me 30 hours to complete. I’m seeing criticism that the message is just “revenge is bad” which is an oversimplification meant to disparage the game as a whole. To me, it’s a game about forgiveness, and how impossible it may seem for the most unforgivable actions, but how necessary it to try in order to move on in life. Without forgiveness, which can come in different forms, we can never progress. Maybe people feel that Naughty Dog did them wrong with the choices made this game... and maybe they don’t think they can ever forgive ND. But hopefully, someday, they’d like to try.
3416) I've never had any piece of media emotionally drain and uplift me as much as TLOU2 did. I sat through the whole credits staring blankly at the screen as I had not a clue what to do with myself afterward in the best way possible. It's been on my mind ever since.
3417) I exist here to balance out the whiny crybabies mad about this game because of WOMAN.
3418) just incredible. **** people anti lgbt. its a marterpiece a it doesn’t deserve a bad reputation
3419) Woman with muscles is very scary. Gay agenda. Something something SJW.,,I think that's enough to scare the gamers off
3420) This game was done masterfully. The subtle movements and facial expressions characters make within each cutscene give clues as to what each character is feeling.,During the scene that divided fans, you could see Joel uncomfortable while Tommy was relaxed. You could see Abby's shock and disgust after she went through with the act that she had long awaited. Because she realized revenge doesn't fill any holes in your heart. Those that angry at the game chose to hate the game from that moment out. They never gave it a chance solely based on the fact that a main character died. The story being done in a non-linear fashion angered many, but just because one does not like it, doesn't mean its a bad story. The pacing with the non-linear story could have been done better, but overall it made the experience of Abby better.,The game did exactly what it sought out to do and that was make the audience feel.  Overall, the graphics, gameplay mechanics, action sequences, and the attention to detail that the Naughty Dog team labored over pushed the level of games in 2020.
3421) This review is from the point of view of a dad.,This game subverts your expectations time and time again. As a gamer of 26 years I've guessed the second half of games usually before I've even gotten close, but this game had me on my toes every step of the way. You can play 30 minutes or 5 hours and get as much enjoyment. You don't get bored, you don't kow whats going to happen, you'll love the new characters and feel for them in the story. This game is cake with the best frosting.
3422) Absolutely amazing experience, just like the first game, yes people may be having a cry because of certain events in the game. This shouldn't overshadow the absolutely beautiful game and immersive story line! All the emotions you go through playing the game is exactly what Naughty Dog are trying to achieve. Thank you for another amazing game!  Neil Druckman, you sir, pure genius!!
3423) I was nervous about playing this game after reading the mixed user reviews for it but after playing it I have to say that it is without a doubt a 10 out of 10. It's a game that requires you to think and question the beliefs and assumptions you have coming into it. It's a story that takes a lot of risks. If there's something specific you wanted out of this game, you may not like it as much as me. If you can't keep an open mind or you're just a bigot you might even be on here giving the game a zero. The game isn't perfect in every respect and has some jarring transitions in story and gameplay near the middle portion. You may not even "like" this game. It isn't "fun" the way some other games are. It filled me with a sickening sense of dread at the fate or actions of my favorite characters. There will be painful moments where you watch characters make decisions you don't agree with. But the game isn't made for you to like it or to be traditionally enjoyable. It isn't a game that cashed in on the latest trends or played it safe to reach the broadest audience. It's a game that was made to get a point across and make you think about what's important to you. And by the credits I had no doubt that it had accomplished that goal. That's the mark of a true work of art. I can't ask for anything more than that.
3424) The last of Us 2 is a masterpiece of the generation, with its perfect scenarios, together with its environments, and the climate, lighting, game mechanics, gameplay and movement, the characters' facial expressions, sound effects and the soundtrack sound, all charming.,You enter the heart, the humanity of the characters, embody your feelings and your dreams, your desires. Interpret and feel, the soul of each one, in its details. Unlike a film, you are in the skin of the protagonist, who increasingly makes you empathetic.,In this post-apocalyptic world, we reflect and see, how the society of good is more united and human, like the society of jackson. Values ​​are different, there is no value for money, what remains are only the virtues of the soul, and your passions, be it for music, or dreams.,Unlike today, nobody needs to show off or put on makeup, hide their hearts, they have no futility or material possessions, only the truth, and pure emotion, soul, feeling, are properly valued.,Surviving sharpens your feelings. Living out of social status, and giving value to your feeling, and relationships, exchanges of emotions and affections.,That and passed in the lore of the game, all the characters, are more emotional and sentimental, deep in their being, being hard and brutal to survive, violent, but still loving and feeling.,Each subtlety, each attitude, you feel interpreting each act, each chapter of the protagonist's mentality, is a surreal experience.,You feel the soul, the feeling, the expression of Ellie in every song played on the guitar. This is incredible, just wonderful.,The story is impeccable, it was a great way to create a well done and exciting plot, which keeps you glued to the plot from beginning to end, and its impactful actions.,The game remains perfect, with a story that establishes principles and difficulties, demonstrating the brutality of survival. How people change for thirst for revenge, what they lose, and how far they go. Hate only ends when forgiveness begins.,In this game, as in the first one, it is not about heroes and villains, but about the behaviors and choices of the human life we ​​make, and how they will trigger actions.,The best way to cut the sadness of losses through revenge, is by forgiving, breaking the cycle.,We lose humanity, we leave our passions in search of that thirst.,However, even with forgiveness, the consequences happened, they were great and without return for all the characters involved with the protagonists.,The journey of revenge cost him everything, that is very sad.,Game to question yourself, to evolve emotionally. Game of the generation without a doubt.,Is it worth hating? Peace can only be found through empathy. Hate and revenge are feelings that have a vicious cycle.,This game changed my life a lot, it impacted my way of thinking, how a game can convey something so profound and true, better than movies. In every detail and affection, that naughty dog ​​put this eye candy for the eyes and soul .,Joel finds a new meaning in life, having feelings from father to daughter with Ellie, she changed her life, and transformed him into a new man, docile and protective.,Just as 1 made me change my relationship, how we should protect and love, and even about adopting a daughter, this made me go back to being emotional, and falling in love with the protagonist, and her little details, that pass so much from her soul and her personality. Ellie and lasts, and also a sweet person.,I recommend this game to everyone, it's a work of art.,A game that you feel, it changes your life.,Game to be admired, cultivated, reflected.
3425) The storyline isn’t easy to play through, and the gameplay is brutal, but all together it’s an amazing experience that will stick with you.
3426) Great continuation of the first game.,After completing the story i can safely say that it's one of the best games i have ever played.,Hats off to Naughty Dog!
3427) Best game ever.,Every character’s line open to you different views on main idea.
3428) Absolute masterpiece. I didn't think I would like it when I saw you play as Abby for a lot of the game and that Joel dies to her but it was a brilliant experience.
3429) This is just the the sequel the game deserves. As the first one left you with a feeling of love, this one is much darker. And when you try to understand the motives of the characters and don’t just hate because the story isn’t going the way you want to, you realize that this game is just great in storytelling and gameplay. But you have to accept the way the story goes. Many people can’t and this leads to their hate and bad ratings here without even playing the game.,It’s not often or maybe almost never that a game can left you with such a feeling behind, so much is lost and can be returned, but that’s the reality in such a cruel world. Hope Dina and Ellie manage to get back together, hopefully we will take part of that in a part 3
3430) Almost as good as the first one.I am glad that I did not give into the hate it is has received and played it myself to evaluate.
3431) A great continuation of the first part!  Added new cool mechanics and a lot can be done for yourself!  The plot is gorgeous and interesting!  I recommend to everyone!
3432) I’ve never played a game were I got to feel exactly what the protagonist feels more then I did with Ellie. Very well done. Easily one of the best gaming experiences of my life.
3433) Awesome history, wonderful graphics and a magnificent gameplay, you need to play it
3434) THIS IS AN AMAZING GAME. I would have scored it 9 or 9.5, but I think we need to offset the people rating it super low, that is just ridiculous. Play it and feel it for yourself! Super fun, super high quality everything (graphics, gameplay, in-game acting, story). There’s some controversial and heartbreaking stuff in it that may not be for everybody, but in no way that makes it a bad game overall. Superb job on this masterpiece.
3435) Great game, the plot has its gaps and minuses, but it's still very good. It is not a 10/10 game, but considering all the ratings about 0 from mental amoebas that hold burning crosses in their hands and jacksoff to photos of Donald Trump, I have to give her 10/10 instead of real 8.5 or 9/10. All negative opinions comes from idiots.
3436) its true. go through the first and second part before writing a review. this game is the best gameplay ive ever seen.
3437) This is real game, with real character and real gameplay. This game never die
3438) Last of Us Part 2 takes its time to develop the story. A story in a very hostile world that will end some beloved character’s lives. It also introduces many new characters, e.g. Abby who kills Joel at the beginning of the game. That death was a real shock (especially after playing the first game) but it fits into a world where there is no government, no rules and no law. It‘s a modern Wild West where revenge creates more revenge. At first I hated Abby for what she did, but after playing the second half of the game I was glad how the final confrontation ended. I wanted her and Lev to survive as I could understand her motivation at the beginning of the game. And I really felt like she changed over the course of the game. Please don‘t believe these review bombers. Naughty dog introduced some LGBTQ+ characters in this game but I (a 30 year old white cis male) never had the feeling they were forced into it. They fit so good in the story. Especially Lev - a trans character growing up in a religious fundamental environment. I‘ll never know how it feels to grow up in such a hostile group of people that want to kill you for who you are. But I‘m glad he found Abby who accepts him for who he is. You see I‘m texting about fictional characters as if they‘re real existing persons. That‘s what Naughty Dog did with this game - it made me forget it is a game.
3439) Wonderful story. Normally I skip through stories in games but found the events really compelling. Gameplay is just okay. Not sure there's much replay value, unfortunately. I'd give this game an 8/10 but giving it a 10/10 to cancel out the morons review bombing it.
3440) A masterpiece of script, storytelling, acting, art, and technology. Emotional rollercoaster with an exceptional complex story that you not expecting from a videogame. I hope this became a milestone for all developers — shows what are videogames capable for. It is not a joyride, it is a complicated long psychological trip that almost destroys you. Finally, videogames have truly matured. It has been several weeks after the incredible ending, and the emotions and feelings inside are not going to decrease. A big fan of the first game and this is not a sequel — this is part two of the story, bigger, better, and completely different. Big thanks to Neil Druckmann and all Naugty Dogs for courage and hard work. Videogames can be a true art — proved by The Last Of Us Part II and by all the discussions it created. If art does not give rise to controversy, then it is not art.
3441) You made me register on this **** site just to put 10 to this great game, which undeservedly getting put down.
3442) Don't let the original leaks turn you off to the game. Play it for yourself, and behold the brilliance.
3443) (First sorry for my English),Normally I should put a 9 but when you see the alliance between some thousands players I think I need to compensate cause I can't understand why you can do that ! The story is not what you want, ok cause you wanna play a new story betweenJoel and Ellie
3444) First of all, i usually don't care much for graphics, but this game stunned me. As for the story, it's a great spin on a revenge tale, perfectly in the same spirit of the first game
3445) Excellent games from beginning to end, three gameplay is phenomenal, the story is gripping and full twist and turns, the music and sound are beautiful and the graphics might be the best I've ever seen from a console. Do yourself a favor and play this game. If you enjoyed 1 or/and uncharted, you will love this game.
3446) Awesome game! Perfect history, characters! Gameplay is realistic and so fluid. The artificial intelligence of enemies are almost perfect...,This game is the best of 2020.
3447) Spectacular work of art.,A game that achieves that you empathize with the fall and the growth of the characters is something that we will remember all our lives.
3448) An emotionally and morally challenging journey of revenge. Naughty Dog accomplishes something that you wouldn't believe unless you played the game yourself and experienced the lives of its characters in an open and willing way. Featuring three dimensional characters with complex motivations, and the most intense and gripping stealth and combat gameplay to date, the game is deserving of far more than the review bombing it is experiencing.
3449) This game is incredible.,A beautiful and at the same time brutal experience that makes you feel so many emotions all at once. A story of hate and revenge well written and narrated in a realistic way that redefines the canons of the genre.,Technically the game is gorgeous, the highest peak the current-gen can achieve. The gameplay is so simple and fluid, with minor improvements compared to the first game that work perfectly whether you play stealth or aggressive.,The level design is fantastic, with large areas and different paths that give you a lot of variety in the approach of the enemies and exploration.,Excellent music and sound design that provide a great immersion into this horrible world.,I can understand that the story can be very divise, but all this attacks to the game with the review bombing is ridicolous. Play the game, craft your own opinion and then, if you want, give a proper comment about this game. It's not mandatory to like it of course, but give this title a 0 is just a signal of trolling or pure stupidity.
3450) I love this game, just like TLOU 1! 31 hours of great experiences. I do not understand people who rate this game on 0 or 1/10...
3451) Ok boys i want to tell you the true, when i finished my first run on tlou2 i was really confused and the end disappointed me.,But after 2 day i finally understand!,This is a story about humans!!! I know this is an weird thing to hear but think i little. In the whole story of videogames we can finally see all the story of the good (Ellie) and the bad guy(abby) with all their feelings.,Tlou's world is horrible and violent but there is also love. If you steal the the thing that a human loves most (like joel and abby's father) he/she want take his/her revenge, its obviously  because we are monkeys!,we follow our instinct and feelings first.,but if you know why your enemy have done this you star to ask your self if the real villain is you.,Now guys i want to talk about the ending.,If you are a kid and you want a good ending you can find it on comics and cartoons, because tlou 2 ending it was the most realistic one!,The ending is realistic because the protagonist's chooses have consequences and the Ellie's chooses was the most egotistical ones but their was the most human.,Im sorry if i have made some grammar mistakes but English is no my first language.,Thanks for reading,--------------------------------------------------,SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER,BTW i felt like an **** when i killed the dogs and in the final battle i dropped down the controller and i started to cry because i didn't want to kill abby.
3452) The game is amazing! Graphics and gameplay wise. Story wise, it’s a masterpiece! Making you play as Abby and having to sympathize with her, learning she actually isn’t as bad as you thought she was, and really feeling the pain she went through, and seeing it from Ellie’s perspective, watching her give up everything for revenge, when it wasn’t even what she wanted, all she wanted was piece, and it hurts me inside seeing how she ended up in the end, definitely GOTY in my book, totally worth playing, same for the first game too!
3453) The best game I’ve played in a long time. Everything from the atmosphere, the gameplay and the characters.,,Naughty dog has once again managed to create story that is far from black and white while being so captivating that you feel for the characters and their choices every step of the way.,,You start off hating certain characters but end up understanding their struggles and suddenly you realize that in an apocalyptic world anyone may do what they feel necessary to survive.
3454) This game is a masterpiece, both from a technical and a writing point of view. I can accept that the story is not liked, but boycotting this product for history means being retarded.,By the way, grades below 8 are unacceptable and are from people who don't understand a ****,This game is a masterpiece, and only ND could do it.
3455) The game is absolutely beautiful, technically amazing and its unique narrative really makes it stand out. It is pretty ridiculous that so many bad reviews are being given because of Joel’s death, even though he was quite a controversial character himself and, come on, that’s 20+ years of a post-apocalyptic world were vengeance is the norm.,Concluding this story in such a bitter way, but yet seeing Ellie and Abby finally breaking the cycle of vengeance... that’s superb storytelling!
3456) Beautiful animation, super entertaining, great for experienced players and people who’d rather just watch.
3457) I loved mostly everything, I just wished you would of let us play along as Elie first and at the end unlocking Abby's story. It was annoying how the story was cut at times when I was exited about what was about to happen.
3458) Finished the game today.  Oh what an amazing experience.  Even if you feel horrible about the story, play it for its gameplay.  A  true masterpiece.
3459) The game is amazing. Beautiful graphics, very satisfying realistic gameplay, really good level design and incredible atmosphere. The story starts out strong and the flashbacks with Joel and Ellie are really good. Although Abby is really annoying at first, it all makes sense at the end. If you stopped playing after THAT scene at the beginning, i think you should keep going. I also think it's stupid that most of the people here who criticize the game haven't even played it and many of them are trolls. The leaks also make much more sense with context.
3460) Story 11/10,Gameplay, Graphics 10/10.,,Best game I've ever played. Better than Witcher 3.
3461) A thrilling, impactful story about violence and revenge. If you try to keep an open mind and an empathetic approach, you have a very high chance of loving this game. Perfect visuals and atmosphere, a detailed world that feels so alive and full of history, improved gameplay and combat mechanics that will let you try many different approaches with different resources. The story is told so nicely that you are faced by a roller coaster ride of emotions: grief, happiness, anger, remorse, forgiveness, hope... Could have benefited from a bit better pacing, especially in the second half, the game in total is really long.
3462) its obvius some xbox fans gave this game red score. which game on metacritic has above 20k reiview? this game has 118k :|,do something about this fake accounts plzzzzzzzzz
3463) The best game I've ever played. There is nothing on this level that this game technically represents. Game of the year.
3464) It's challenging and sometimes difficult to play story-wise but the gameplay, graphics, combat, etc are all 10/10. I personally loved the story but ymmv.
3465) Hello!,I don’t have a PS, I did not play the game, but I saw a all the game from beginning to end on YouTube.,I registered here just to support the development team, you are really well done, this is a masterpiece, without exaggeration I can say that this game will become a cult like the Lords of the Rings in due time.,You are great fellows, thank you very much for the work done!
3466) I would say that this is one of the best games to come out this year. The scene with Ellie and Joel in the museum was so well thought out, I almost forgot I was in a video game while playing it. TLOU2 was one big emotional rollercoaster pulling at your heart strings the whole way. I especially loved how it went into both sides of the story showing Abby’s perspective as well. It was great to be able to play as this buffed out MMA chick where her takedown was literally strangling out the infected breaking their necks, a character type that not many game’s have really tapped into. When it came to the theater boss fight with Ellie I was a mess because I cared for both characters and their struggles. Both of them felt their side was right but in the end everyone was just fighting against each other for no good reason in all of the chaos. There’s this massive outbreak consuming humans rapidly but everyone was so focused on senseless revenge. I feel like it uncovers humanity’s true nature when calamity ensues. I can’t fathom why the game’s received so much hate. My hats off to you, Naughty Dog! Can’t wait for the 3rd!
3467) A beautifully nuanced story with incredible character development and immersive gameplay.,Looooooved it!
3468) It was a beautiful and powerful story. Thanks @Naughty_Dog. You do awesome things.,#TheLastofUsPart2
3469) I finished it Tuesday night. Breathtakingly... hauntingly beautiful depiction of the cycle of violence and what it does to the human condition.  Cant believe I said that about a computer game... but yeah phenomenal piece of art.  It's honest like a book you'd read for english lit where you could write essays on it.  Definitely a must experience game. Ellie and Joel will always have a warm place in my heart and I’m lucky to have experienced their stories, just a shame that we didn’t get more of them together.. but what we did get was
3470) Personally, I consider this game a masterpiece after having played through it twice. It's not a feel-good game; it's supposed to make you profoundly uncomfortable. ND didn't warp its story to placate fans of the last game. It's also the most impressive technical achievement on PS4, and its gameplay is really engaging. The stealth is great, the AI is some of the best I've seen, and the gunplay/melee combat feels weighty and realistic. It feels like a cross between Metal Gear Solid and Resident Evil. The backlash to this game is sad to watch, but hate is to be expected for any piece of art that's ahead of its time.
3471) One of the best story drive. games I’ve played in a while. I saw a lot of people did not like the story but I don’t understand where that criticism is coming from. I feel like people are over reacting because the writers took this game in a different route than the first.
3472) Probably The best Game i’ve ever played together with few other diamonds (FFX, Assassins creed II, MGSV, Persona 5,...) It’s a revolution in the gaming world always sterilised from subjects like LGBT. The way characters are built, the AI, the emotions you can feel while making every single choice (and kill) in this game are new std. and yes guys in real world we have LGBT and people can always die (even if cool and strong) so shut the f**k up with these 1/10 and at least play the game. Wouldn’t be surprised the see it ranked best PS4 game ever
3473) I’m writing this review after both actually finishing the game and taking time to reflect on it. Tlou2 is a game about personal redemption and the struggles and hard problems of trying to find redemption. Not only is this the best looking game on the ps4 or essentially of all time. It has a deep gameplay system with grear improvements form the first game. It also has a very deep and honestly heart ripping story. All the bad things and issues with story aren’t actual problems. If you want a game with a non story, then why are you Playing this game. This game stuck true to nature with the first game. There are twist and turns, and yes it’s not happy, but when was the first game every happy. So, After playing and taking time reflecting about this game, it honestly is a perfect game. Easily in the top 5 of this generation.
3474) My new favourite game ever! Uncharted 4, Red Dead Redemption and God of War pushed this generation to the limits. The Last Of Us Part 2, in my humble opinion showed how the future of gaming is, in combination with a bold Story full of raw violence! I just love the game! Thank you Naughty Dog, thank you for pushing forward the gaming industry and culture.
3475) Just Perfect ! Everything is perfect, I have just finished it and it was a memorable game ! Thanks Naughty Dog
3476) Playing this game was like playing a video game version of Johnny Cash’s cover of ‘Hurt’. And I mean that in the best way possible. (Someone said this on twitter, and that’s the best way I could describe it) The game did have a few pacing issues at some segments, but that can’t outshine the highs of highs in this game. This game has just as many great moments as the first game, shut the **** up, manbabies.
3477) I love it and hate it at the same time. Real emotional roller coaster. Amazing game!
3478) Hands down the best game I've ever played so far, state-of-the-art storytelling, beautiful graphics, amazing soundtrack, enjoyed every minute. The Last Of US Part 2 is an emotional roller-coaster from start to finish, Part 1 was my favorite game ever before Part 2 came out and rocked my world and kept me on the edge of my seat, I just can't stop thinking about it even after I finished it more than a week ago, and I still listen to the soundtrack on YouTube every day,  I find the story more complex and deeper than the first one, even though this is a post-apocalyptic game, it's very realistic when it comes to the relationships between the characters, and their choices, I'm still trying to process the ending and I'm going to replay it on survivor+ very soon, I definitely recommend this game!
3479) Just finished a full play through, and I have to say from the start that I didn't read any spoilers leading up or follow much of the political rhetoric being thrown at the game, though I was aware of it.  That being said being a fan of the first game..which I believe changed the way people thought about what a game could be..I was really apprehensive to play it seeing all the shade being thrown at it, not by political or ideologically minded people..but gamers who love the first one. Once I started playing though, it all dropped away and I honestly loved it..is it its predecessor..no..it was never going to be and quite frankly I've already played that game.  The last of us 2 brought something different wonderful in its own right.
3480) I did really enjoy the game. It seems a lot of people are bashing the game without even playing it. The pacing is weird and it's a little longer than I would have preferred but the characters are amazing and the gameplay is a lot better and more fluid than the first one. Scenarios are really diverse and fun to traverse. Art direction is unrivaled both in visuals and sound. I would certainly give it a 9 out of 10, But a lot of entitled people are giving it a 0 without any consideration that I feel the need to balance the scale a little bit.
3481) Honestly I don't know why people are mad at this game. Its solid gameplay and creative storytelling makes really unique experience. Thanks to naughty dog by putting out this ambitious work.
3482) Ignore the haters. Probably a 9 but had to balance out the fools putting 0!
3483) it is a masterpiece  better than the first part,Everything in this game is beautiful, do not let anyone spoil you legendary experience
3484) The Last of Us Part II is bad news for story-driven games as it sets the bar even higher than its predecessor.,The gameplay is phenomenal, but like the original, it's the story that sticks out. While having some pacing issues (mainly due to its length and bold storytelling format), this sequel surpasses the original in writing, dialogues and character development while working on a seemingly simpler theme, a revenge story.,If you think this game's story damages the first one's, you probably never understood The Last of Us.
3485) I totally understand why lots of people dislike the game. Just like many, when I was playing it through and it switched to Abby, I had a very sour view of it all. Some, as well as myself, regard the first Last of Us game as the one of the best played. In the first game, we fell in love with the characters and especially the chemistry between both Joel and Ellie. And like a massive punch in the gut, we had to watch Joel suddenly seem out of character in helping Abby and was pummeled with a golf club in the first two-three hours of the game. I was distraught and utterly disappointed. However throughout TLOU2, it made me feel. It was an experience where I was in the shoes of both Ellie and Abby. With everything the game illustrated about the revenge cycle, it made me realize as much as I wanted Ellie to kill Abby ... it would’ve made no difference. The last fight between both Ellie and Abby made me feel extremely uncomfortable, and I was finally able to see Ellie was absolutely entrenched in her own guilt of losing Joel through the whole journey. Right when Ellie was about to start up her father-daughter relationship with Joel again, Joel murdered the next day. To this, the utilization of the central song (“If I ever were to lose you ...”) almost wraps the whole journey of Ellie’s together. In the final moments of the game, I was able to feel how lost and empty Ellie must have felt. Sure. It wasn’t an experience I was expecting. Initially, it wasn’t one I was enjoying either. I would’ve instantly loved it if the game went as I expected. But, happily ever after was never what TLOU was about. Though we fell in love with Joel and Ellie, the first game made us oblivious to what was happening outside of a certain scope. Seeing into Abby’s story was a slap in the face. But for me, it was almost needed in order to understand the world outside of Ellie and Joel’s relationship. Most of us agree that the visuals and the game mechanics were stunning. And props to Naughty Dog for all the accessibility options. I rated it a 10 because I’ve never had such an experience with a game before. It’s a bitter game but it’s one where I really understood and soberly felt what Ellie was going through.
3486) It's been a really long year for everyone. What with COVID19 and all.. But I've waited even longer for this game to come out. And I just finished it. If a game is "supposed to be bad", why after 30 hours do I feel like I needed more? The story is masterfully crafted with very precisely calculated time jumps. 6 YEARs! That's how long it took them to make this game. 6 years! And I can't believe the sheer amount of hate it's received in only 48 hours since it's release, simply because it dared to do something different. So screw all of you who review bombed this game, because honestly, I absolutely loved the game from the start to finish. It doesn't affect the gameplay one bit that they're LGBTQ+ characters, so why should you care? I understand the toxic gaming community is butthurt about certain characters being killed off, but what did you expect was going to happen? That's it, I'm done. **** gamers and their overinflated egos.
3487) While the story is bleak, thematically it is flawless. For the game itself, it is one of the most beautiful looking games ever to be made, the action is brutal and satsfying, the stealth is challenging and the survival aspects will make you loot every drawer you see.
3488) Masterpiece twists and turns brilliant gameplay, graphics, realistic combat scenes
3489) The game is rated M for a reason ppl hate only cuz Joel dies and u play as abby Stop crying if you really think about everything what happend in the first game and now all the back story everything make sense.Story is amazing.Over all gameplay,graphic etc. Are insane. Definitely Masterpiece 10/10
3490) The people who score the game low has no idea of how deep the story really is, bunch of a teenagers who thinks in a shalow way...,The story is brilliant.,Think deeper you kids
3491) This game has a emotional and thrilling story. To understand the decisions of the characters you have to play to the end of the story. The story is good narrated and the cutscenes are sensible and have a high niveau. The game has a lot of settings for barrier-free. Graphic and sound is fantastic. The gameplay is a matter of taste, but it is a good improvement in contrast the first part.
3492) A brutal, masterful display of storytelling that subverted a lot of fan expectations. It's emotionally draining with intermittent scenes of joy and dread, tight gameplay, and beautiful visuals. I will not soon forget the journey.
3493) I give this game 10/10 without any doubt. Naughty dog did a great job an effort to give us this game. I have nothing but love. Thank you.
3494) No video game has ever made me feel so many emotions. It is a powerful game & the story is true to the harsh post-apocalyptic world. It does not do any fan service & remains authentic as per actions & decisions taken by the characters in the first part. It’s a long game with close to 30 hours of content that requires patience. An incredible amount of effort, time, love & thought has gone into making this interactive experience & it shows. Regardless of whether you like or dislike the story, this is one of those rare things that should be experienced first hand. Don’t decide to play or not play any game based on anybody else’s review. Trust your own gut feeling whether you should invest your time & money into any experience. Don’t play this game with any expectations & if you play with an open mind, you might be rewarded with the most gut wrenching, thought provoking & emotionally draining video game of all time that will make you think about its characters & their feelings for a long time even after completing the game.
3495) I love this game, don’t let anybody tell you otherwise! I liked that in the middle part it gave me the feeling that I hated it. But now 10 minutes after I finished it I am overwhelmed! Not only did they find an excellent way of portraying modern day equality but they did it in a way that wasn’t in your face. It was just there and wether you like it or not you have to deal with it. I liked it a lot. The gameplay, graphics and story are amazing and this truly is the best ps4 game!
3496) Ignore all the negative reviews. The game and storyline is epic! Twist and turns and completely engaging. Play the first game so you understand the characters. Foks that are upset by the story probably are thinking surface-level and not paying attention to all of the details and underlying character dilemmas throughout the game. LOVE LAST OF US! Cannot wait for the TV Series!
3497) I loved it, it had everything I was looking for, excellent gameplay, visuals, and story.
3498) This is a fascinating game. The story doesn't play out how I would have wanted it to go (I would have loved more time on the road with Joel and the older Ellie), but considering the direction the writers felt they needed to go, it's a very impressive and gut-wrenching story. I've never been affected emotionally by a game like I was by this one.,,Gameplay wise, it's nothing groundbreaking (save for the animations), but it's very fun and tense. And it's all wrapped up in superlative graphics and sound design.
3499) This game is a masterpiece !!,I Love how complex the characters are, and how can you see a history from different Point of views!!
3500) I really liked it. Probably because I played it and didn't just watch a salty YouTuber play it
3501) I have never felt so emotionally engaged in a game before, I highly recommend it, but need to have an open mind and let the story play out, instead of trying to fight it. Brilliant game!!
3502) Very emotional game!,People who played, or want to, this game, have to understand that, this is a human story!,This game isn't a superhero movie! The player plays a story realistic, with characters who are more real possible!,It's not a fiction, it's not a stereotyped movie, with beatiful characters and a banal storyline!,This story is the consequence of the 1st chapter.,Nothing you could expeted should happened!,For obvious storylines, there's other games...,And, tecnically, the vote for this game, starts from 8/10.,The full scale of votes it's nosense.
3503) Amazing! From start to finish!! Graphics, sound, gameplay, story 10/10,Hope naughty dog keeps delivering some of the best titles in gaming history
3504) Good game! Best of the best! passed with great pleasure.  I advise everyone to go through the game and not watch on YouTube.  Of course, I can shock people, but still you can play the games yourself and think with your own head and not be a herd simply because people
3505) The only problem I can find with this game is that is so far ahead than anything else before it that some people are not ready for it. Of course the game will make you upset, that is the whole point, it's an analysis of hate and its consequences. If after finishing the game you still feel hateful then some part of the message was definitely lost on you.
3506) Made a Metacritic account to counterbalance the negativity on here.,I loved this game. it's probably either my favourite or second favourite game of all time.,There are a few criticisms I've seen that I want to address.,Firstly there's the bigots who just dislike that this involves LGBTQ+ characters and their opinions can be immediately ignored.,,Secondly there's the people who dislike the story. To this I'd say each to their own, but I personally enjoy stories that challenge me. This won't be for everyone but by no means is it objectively bad. That's just ridiculous. Ignore anyone who says this. It takes some surprising and unusual routes, but the story to me was fantastic, challenging and original. I've never played a game that made me experience so much emotion, or stay with me in the same way. That said, that's my opinion, clearly a lot of people didn't experience the story the way I did. I think that's a shame because I found it truly astounding.,,Lastly I've seen some criticism of the scavenging gameplay. It's almost exactly the same as the first game, so if you didn't enjoy in that, expect to find it tedious in this. For me, it pulled me into the world and enabled me to truly explore the utterly stunning scenery.,,There's no denying the astonishing amount of work that went into this game. Regardless of opinions around the story, the environments, animations, textures, lighting and design are all the best that I've seen in our current generation. Please when considering this game, read the nuanced reviews, not the hate filled ones.
3507) Don't know why this game is getting so much hate,I loved this game not an idiot who can only do anger.
3508) Play as abby was awesome and the fact that we could understood both sides of storys in an apocalipty world is amazing, definitly, I liked most the story and tô play with abby which lost his fathers than play with ellie. I was very sad to kill the dogs from WLF, then the scenes were abby help animal and throw the ball to the dog make me confortável and happy playing, everything in this game was special... You Need to play and get your onw things about it. But for me me, its one more of the Bests games that i had played.
3509) Very enjoyable follow up, this is a game that will mature even more with time. Looking forward to Abby and Ellie getting back together at some stage as I think the next one will be all about the cure,,,Fireflies will have found a new doctor able to create a vaccine.,,Good game and amazed at the amount of reviews scores of 0 or roundabout that are posted on  the release date. It's a shame, this game is not what I expected with regards the story and I was sad to loose Joel early, but I kept an open mind and heart to the story and thoroughly enjoyed it.,,There are many plot holes in the first story too and to name a few - why drive through the town instead of backing up and finding another route even if it means walking - Joel would know what to expect? Joel and Tommy following Ellie's horse track through an enemy compound and she is not attacked or captured but they are attacked by 8 plus enemies? Tommy's compound is conveniently attacked just as Joel is talking about Ellie? Why rush the surgery, a surgeon not bothered about patient consent?,,I guess people see through different lenses when upset and I can see and respect why some are not happy with this story line. This game is not a 0 or 2 if you don't like the story because you loved part 1 so much you are offended by the path taken by the writers, just for quality, acting and sound it is a 5 minimum. Good job ND.
3510) I'm baffled by all the negative reviews that criticize why Ellie let Abby go at the end.,,I don't like when people say "you just didn't like the game because you didn't get it," but it honestly feels like most people were so emotionally invested in Joel's death that they literally didn't pay attention to anything the game was doing for the remaining 20 ish hours afterward.,,If the central messages of the game were this difficult for people to grasp... I guess it is valid criticism that the game wasn't clear enough? But then there's another crowd criticizing the game for being hamfisted in delivering its themes.,,All I know is that for me, the story totally worked. I certainly didn't agree with the character's decisions all the time, but this isn't supposed to be a game with player choice in a branching narrative. It's just trying to help you understand why the characters make the decisions they do, and for me it was absolutely successful.,,Ellie sets off on a revenge quest and gets so caught up in it that she sacrifices the bright future she had with Dina. Abby, meanwhile, has finished her own revenge quest at the start of the game, leaving her somewhat purposeless, and she struggles to find something to live for while Ellie hunts her down. In the end, Ellie finally realizes what Abby has learned, that protecting people you care about is the only way to truly rid yourself of your internal demons, but it's tragically too late as Dina has already decided to leave her.,,The internal struggle to move on from loss and past traumas in general is not a novel or earth-shattering idea, but the game explores this struggle fully, with compelling characters, and an insane level of detail in both world-building and plot consistency. If this isn't what people recognize as a fantastic game, I have no idea what they want...,,And what are people talking about the SJW agenda of the game? Yeah there's a couple LGBT characters. The game spends almost 0 time on this, so who cares?
3511) Just incredible experience, breathtaking visuals and kind of unorthodox story, which is going to leave you speechless
3512) This is a game for the intellectual, inclusive minded and adult gamer. It is not a game for kids or narrow minded adults who thinks the story campaign in Call of Duty is fantastic. Graphics,sound and gameplay is as you'd expect from Naughty Dog and is again pushing the bar of game design.,,But the story and characters are so well written that by the end of the game you will have completely different opinions about characters and their reasons for what they do. It's a masterpiece of storytelling and game design and it will without a doubt go down as one of the most important and impressive games for generations.
3513) This game is a masterpiece, its a bout what you could live with anger also it tastes you’re empty as human you can hate abby and love joel but you can see that what joel did is wrong and he payed for it the sequel takes the world of the last of us to another kind of level where the it’s not only the infected who are making the world a bad place its the human nature
3514) Really incredible game,I really think a lot of peaple just don't inderstand the story (maybe it was not told perfectly) but with a little effort and thinking you can see a deeper meaning and reasons behind both protagonists. Lots of parallels between them too,could tell a lot, but it'd be better to just play the game... that's also really fun to play!
3515) The Last of Us Part II is the definition of the perfect sequel. A sequel that respects the first part, is having a dialogue with it, but achieves something different and unique by its own, while remaining an authentic The Last of Us experience.,Part II demands a lot from the player. You need to get into it open-minded and willing to play something different. That being said, Part II isn't different for the sake of being different. The directors took the risk of adding totally anti-fan service elements, knowing that they will be hated by a respectful percentage of players. Those elements are there trying very hard to make you feel unprecedented emotions; emotions that only a video game can trigger.,Not even once during the game did I feel that a certain agenda was being forced on me. Everything felt so natural, so "unimportant" compared to the purpose of the game. Certain sensitive social issues are presented with extreme attention and success. Anyone feeling triggered or annoyed, should welcome themselves to year 2020.,The Last of Us Part II stands worthily next to the first part as a game that serves its purpose flawlessly. Only Naught Dog could achieve such a feat.
3516) don't listen to the nerd rage, this game is incredible. Incredible story and graphics with solid gameplay. A bit too long, but that is my only issue. Other than that, well worth the wait.
3517) I really enjoy playing the game, and only that matters. The game dosn't deserve that much hate
3518) I thought it would be a game of revenge, but it turns out to be a redemption.,It touches something deep inside my mind after 36 hours of gaming.,Thank you Naughty-Dog for bringing us such an extraordinary experience.
3519) Naughty dog made a huge mistake: it overestimates the people who play this game.
3520) The story might not be the one you want, but it's a great story nevertheless. If you have a heart and a brain, this game will move you like no other.
3521) Its not perfect, I could have done without the target practice 15 hours in, its a little bit bloated at times. But what this game achieves on so many levels will be a point of comparison for all AAA games for years to come.  What the narrative does with a simple revenge plot is incredible, and uses the medium of games in ways that no movie ever could.
3522) I ACTUALLY played the game, and im not much of a reviewer, but man was thus fame a rollercoaster of emotions. No game has made me cry so often as this. Gameplay was smooth and swift, the level design was beautifulky done s well as the ambiance. Story wise, did not expect how it went AT ALL. My biggest opinion on what i wouldved changed would be the organization if the flashbacks. It seemed a little thrown all over and kinda felt stretched out halfway through playing it. But **** its  a beautifully chaotic, raw story. Pulls on your heartstrings alot and makes you see things in a different persepective. Thoroughly enjoyed playing it and even though i had this empty feeling in the end, it took a whole day to take it all in and i accepted the ending as it is.
3523) The Last of Us part 2 is a phenomenal game in nearly all aspects including story telling, gameplay and graphics :)
3524) This game is great in story, graphic and game play. That's why it got 10/10 from me
3525) one of wonderful games that i play in my life!all things is wonderful!such as story , gameplay, characters, action scene!thanks Neil Druckmann for all of things!we want the last of us 3
3526) amazing game , story , graphics and gameplay. Anyone who doesn’t rate it isn’t mature enough to appreciate the story.
3527) A deep character study on darkness, pain, regret, forgiveness, and redemption. It's not afraid to take risks and never pulls its punches - it's an emotional rollarcoaster with no heroes or villains, just people with complex motivations in a harsh gray world.
3528) PLEASE. Do. Not. Listen. To. The. Haters.,,Seriously. I started a Metacritic account just so I could write this review to counteract all the negative review bombing happening from all these haters.,,The Last of Us Part II is the most amazing story-driven game ever to be released. I have played a lot of video games in my day and nothing even comes close (maybe God of War but still...). I personally think this game requires a certain level of emotional maturity to truly appreciate, which is part of the reason people have been hating on it so much. This game does not hold your hand. It won't be nice to you and play out the way you think it should. This game is rated M for Mature, and it requires that maturity to appreciate it. If you have a lot of psychological issues or consider yourself to be rather emotionally fragile, this may not be the game for you. The story and gameplay are both incredibly grounded in reality. It is brutal. It is heavy. And it is f*cking beautiful.,,If you only like action-packed games where you run around and kill enemies thoughtlessly to get more points or whatever, go buy Call of Duty or DOOM (which by the way, I am not bashing those as I enjoy them both).,,If you want something new, take a risk and play The Last of Us Part II. Naughty Dog has broken the mold as to what storytelling in video games can become. Just remember to go into with an open mind and a realization that your journey will be brutal. I cannot state enough how impressed I am. Each element of TLOU2 is immaculately thought out. The fighting, the gunplay, the stealth, the exploring, the puzzles, the collectibles, the voice acting, the environments, the enemy design, the music (god, the music... best ever).  It is all perfectly crafted to create a believable dog-eat-dog story set in a post-apocalyptic world. Naughty Dog outdid themselves. Don't believe all the negative hype. This game is the real deal.
3529) Thank you @Naughty_Dog for the awesome Last of Us 2. Today I finished it and I love how you managed to show the two stories and especially the aspects of Abbys story part. Pls don't get disillusioned from all the bad reviews. I LOVE YOUR WORK!
3530) This is a great game! Go into it and try to form your own opinion of this game. I was very upset and hated Abby when I first played this game,  but by the end I had understood her perspective.  It's a game that really makes you think.
3531) I cannot comprehend any of the negativity about this game. It's a beautiful masterpiece. The gameplay is thrilling and story is a roller-coaster of emotion. I didn't want a sequel to the last of us because I thought it was bound to spoil a perfect thing. Now I can't wait for a 3rd game to round out the trilogy.
3532) The Last of Us Part 2 was so incredibly amazing and sad at the same time. I found myself so immersed in the game that I felt like I was actually apart of the story! A lot of people will bash and hate on this game but the emotional rollercoaster you go through as you play is totally worth it. And the lession behind the game is something that you should pay attention to at the end. Do yourself a favor and play the game and find out for yourself if you like it or not. Don't automatically listen to all the haters. This game is truly a masterpiece. 10/10,-Joshua Ducote
3533) Brilliant game and will be game of the year! If you loved the first game then you will love this one just as much if not more.
3534) Exceptional game. There will probably never be another story or game experience as good as this in my lifetime. Nothing’s perfect - but this game and the series as a whole, is pretty damn close. Hats off to the Naughty Dog team and Neil Druckmann.
3535) I can see why players don't give this game high ratings beacuse the storyline didn't make everyone happy, but i think the way things happened was necessary to make this game the rollercoaster of feelings it is and in my sincere opinion as a big fan of the franchise and as a player of The Last of Us 2, i can say its the best game i ever played. 10/10
3536) Naughty Dog... thanks. Never leave us and continue to give us masterpieces like this.,We need it now more than ever
3537) I'm trying to understand why people hate The Last of Us 2. This is one of the best sequels I've played in my entire life. Last time I got sucked into a story like this was with Red Dead Redemption 2 and LOU2 stands toe to toe with it.,,I loved the first game and I really thought that a second part was unnecessary. ND's biggest challenge was to justify the sequel's existence and GODDAMN they did it! I love it even more. It's hard to find anything negative about it. Even the soundtrack is fantastic and I really thought they wouldn' top that. Well, they did that too.,,For starters, this is the most beautiful game of this generation. The level of detail and animation technology here is stunning. Part of the reason why you get so convinced in getting involved with the characters is because of how they talk, move, laugh, cry, talk and just react to things. What the devs pulled here was a work of art. A phenomenal graphical powerhouse that paves the way for an incredibly elaborate story.,The gameplay's still very reminiscent of the first entry, but much more improved. Combat  and stealth are gruesome, intelligent, challenging, intense and breathtaking. You may not have the level of flexibility of MGSV or the improvisation possibilities of Uncharted 4, but you can ACTUALLY plan how you're going to face encounters and recover from bad decisions, turning the tide to your favor. It's almost flawless. Upgrading your character also feels a lot more rewarding now. Looking for supplies and saving bullets and items matters a lot more, this time.,Oh and the environments are GORGEOUS! Not only to look at, but to explore. They felt scary AND charming at the same time.,,But the true driving force of TLOU2 is the story. The acting and writing is at its best. I've seen few things like it in a video game. Without getting into the infamous heavy controversial spoilers, I felt like EVERY decision made in its plot was masterfully done and well justified. It's weird when they break the tale's climax to change the perspective, but when you get further into the script, you just get it. You root for both characters. You may even hate them both. It makes you question MANY things about society, revenge, choice, family, humanity and love. All of these things backed by the strong portrayal of amazing actors, great writing, precise details and impressive animations. Can't remember the last time I cried and laughed this much as I did here.,,I guess the bad parts of TLOU2 are in its structure.,Like I said, it is extremely justifiable, but it takes a while to justify it. The story is massive and beautiful, but they break it with many flashbacks and perspective moves. Pacing kinda drags, especially with the "Can't Go This Way, Let's Find Another One" moments. It definitely did not trouble my experience, but I get that it can be bothersome. The third act, albeit VERY impactful, can kinda feels rushed. Specially since they just throw a new group of enemies at you without any background.,The stealth, when facing the infected, doesn't always work. Maybe it's on purpose, but I went through some frustrating moments when dealing with them. Also, your companion's AI sort of... Sucks.,,It's really hard to give this game anything different than a 10. It might not feel like it in the future, but I really see almost no flaw in it. I had fun, I got sad, angry, happy, frustrated and felt challenged by TLOU2.,Challenged not only by the gameplay, but also by the story. The game's biggest challenge is to see both sides and to deal and accept that, well... Tomorrow begats tomorrow. Wether it's a good or a bad one. A brutal or a beautiful one. A bloody or a peaceful tomorrow. Your decisions will make or break you. And it might just make or break others too.,,If you love video games, play this one.
3538) Is a beautiful game, the philosophy in the game awesome, the death of Joel is bad, but is good when you remember the flashbacks.
3539) *MILD SPOILERS AHEAD* This game is an absolute masterpiece, from its unapologetic story, to graphics, attention to detail and the phenomenal, intense, brutal gameplay. It makes you question your own morality and gets you talking for weeks after finishing it. I mean just look at how much this game has got people talking... If you're a fan of the first one you will undoubtedly LOVE this game. It really is something you need to experience. The Last of us story, both part 1 and part 2 as a whole, is simply incredible and quite Frankley, unmatched in the world of video gaming. This game really pushes the boundaries of players comforts and doesn't shy away from doing the unthinkable to tell a brilliant story. This is NOT a fairytale and it embraces that! It takes the player through such an emotional rollercoaster...,Unfortunately this is the main reason its been so slated. Sooooooo many people wanted it to this happy, loving fairytale game or even just a repeat of the first game. I take my hat off to Neil Druckmann, Naughty Dog and anyone who worked on this game for this brave work of art. It is a massive achievement and a credit to everyone involved. And firmly smashes Naughty Dog as the BEST game developer. I've honestly never clenched onto a controller so tightly, or sat on the edge of my seat so far forward im damn near floating, anywhere near as much playing any other game to date than I did with this one.,And i loved the first one, Including Joel, hes one of my all time favourite characters in gaming and despite what happens, I still ADORE this game. I genuinely can't praise it enough. Don't let these "reviewers" put you off, most of these negative reviews were made before the game had even been out 1 day. Its a 30 hour game... theres no way they played it enough to form an honest opinion and just like most things nower days, people just jumped an the band wagon to be heard. I've already finished it and I'm over half way through on my second playthrough... and as i said its a 30 hour game. Now more people have played through it and formed their own opinion the ratings are shooting up. And if this game never got leaked in the first place im sure most people give it 10/10s,Anyway, In my opinion (and many many many others) this is THE BEST GAME OF THIS GENERATION and pretty much any game of any generation. Please, just go in with an open mind if you unfortunately saw the spoilers and just experience this whirlwind phenom.
3540) The quality of gameplay, the polish of the world, small interesting things you can see and a compelling make this a must play. Thanks for the craftsmanship Naughty Dog. Thanks for telling your story Neil and team. Thanks for amazing work to the actors.
3541) It’s thought-provoking and haunting. An emotional rollercoaster that broke me. The gameplay is incredible. The attention to detail blew me away. It felt so real. There’s so much to discover and I will definitely be playing it again.
3542) Love & Peace !!! Dont be a hater !!! This is a great game, i don’t understand why so many people hate this game...
3543) Gameplay, Visuals, Mechanics, Dialogue, Cutscenes, Voice acting - 10/10,,Story - 10/10  : It's the most controversial and complex story I've ever witnessed in my life. This game will drain you emotionally and mentally every single time you hop on to play. Many people hate it/ say that it doesn't fit as a story for TLOU, but to be honest I say otherwise. This game ends off on the saddest note I've ever seen. It's all about a revenge story that flips the table completely and turns it into a forgiveness that shows the most heart wrenching twist in a story I've ever seen. The whole story all around is executed pretty much perfectly , the writing is amazing and so are a lot of the new characters. It is a journey that everybody should experience and it's definetly worth the 60$.
3544) People have their opinions but 90% of the hate this game is getting is unjustified. Some people are mad  that the story didn't play out the way they wanted it to, but that doesn't justify idiots review bombing this game with 0's. Gameplay has been improved from the last one, sound and music is phenomenal, graphics are great and runs well enough with some minor glitches. Story is dark and complex, and whether you like it or not, its a good story. The one thing off was the pacing of the game and that's it. Objectively game is a strong 8 or 9, but i have to balance out these **** 0 reviews somehow. Enjoy the game!
3545) I found my first playthrough a miserable experience and would have rated it a 5 or a 6.,,In attempt to explore my feelings about the game I did another playthrough, but everytime I went to unravel a thread I thought I had seen I found nothing but solid rope.,I never managed to justify my initial impression, in fact I found that the game is actually exceptionally well written and directed..,,I feel like it my initial reaction might have had something to do with the inconsistent nature I view characters I'm playing as opposed to when I'm watching characters on tv. They are obviously characters and they have completely separate motivations from me and will make choices I would not but when you are playing as a character that isn't wildly different from you and they make reasonable choices in games you get to feel like you are the character, so when the character then begins to makes choices outside the bounds of what I would have chosen there is some level of cognitive dissonance there. This means I had to learn to watch Ellie just simply as a character and not entangle myself in her choices. In addition there were some choices the character made that actually were consistent with ones I would have made, because of an unhealthy obsession with reaching a goal that predictably lead to some bad consequences and that didn't feel good.,,Edit: Thinking it through, I really feel it stems from the ending of the first game. Remembering back to my first reactions to it I rather disliked being forced to kill one of the last remaining doctors in that world but in the years since, I've forgotten the worst acts of Joel and since it's muddled with me "being" Joel and knowing Joel is at heart a good person I've built up stories and psychological defenses to justify the acts. This game destroyed those defenses and I didn't want to admit that in a way, as Ellie, I was ultimately chasing after myself.,,I still love Joel though, as a character that had to make a horrible choice that I in some sense can understand and doesn't ultimately boil down to black and white, evil or good.. Just **** up..,,As a final note, I would recommend that you pay attention to what is going on in Ellies journal. I didn't really understand why Ellie and Dina where even a thing before I read in there that they have known eachother for years and Ellie clearly had a crush on her from before. This might be the only major weakness I found, it's fairly subjective though, others might just accept that they seem in love and are good together but for whatever reason I just didn't find it very believable before I read those journal entries.
3546) The game is lots fun to play, with very good story, no idea why people are mad about it. If they make another one cant wait for it.
3547) Masterful Story Telling! The story is rich with World Building and Characters.  The theme of vengeance and its repercussions feels oppressive in every scene and the cycle of violence is unrelenting. It's okay to disagree with a character story, but some of y'all haven't beat the game and it shows.
3548) Best game i ever played, it is an emotional rollercoaster that makes you fell like you´re in the game so if you like this type of games you must play it. Stunning story telling and character development. 10/10
3549) the best gameplay. This story broke my heart...,i think its 8/10, but i i choose 10, cuz **** PC gamers make 56 000 negative scores. I did it only for support the developer. This game did not deserve such a rating...
3550) It's just for justice, because stupid many zero votes. Plot it's not ideal but it's not main part of game, because this is game, not book!
3551) 10/10 Everyone has different opinions and I respect them but personally for me TLOU2 is one of the best games I've played. Thank you naughty dog for a amazing but also heartwrenching experience :)
3552) User score... Why...? This is the best game of the PS4 ALL GAME. Please Dont underestimate.
3553) Clearly, this game is nothing if not divisive. I am not usually one to come to this site and write reviews, though the controversy, and even vitriol, found within the user reviews of the game have driven me to do so. I cannot promise that you will like this game. The user reviews have made it apparent that many more people dislike this game than I ever would have thought. Despite this, all I can leave you with is my experience: this may be the most perfect video game I have ever played. There isn't a single thing about this game that I don't think is brilliant, all of it seemingly necessary to deliver the one-of-kind experience this is. The Last of Us Part II is a bold, risk taking narrative, more than most of the narratives I have experienced in games, movies, or otherwise. I blame this facet of the game for the split opinions. I see many reviews claiming that if you loved the story of the original game than you will hate this one, and I can only understand that to an extent. I view the story of The Last of Us Part II as a cutting, poignant, heartbreaking, brilliant, complex, and moving continuation of the ideas introduced within the first game. I adore narrative, probably to obnoxious degree, and is something I prioritize heavily within the media and art that I consume. Factor in recency bias, of course, but as of now, this may be one of my favorite narratives that I have ever experienced. Again, I cannot promise that you will love this game like I did, or even like it, but if you are a fan of the original, or just narrative-driven games as a whole, I implore you to not let the user reviews dissuade from trying this game. For my money, this is perhaps an unparalleled masterpiece that is not only a deserved swan-song for the PS4, but Naughty Dog's magnum opus.
3554) I get why people are not liking this game...  People doesn't like different things. That's why there are the same Fast & Furious movies every year, the same call of duty games every year. People want to see the same thing always.,People doesn't like thinking, and this game make you think A LOT!.  The hardest game to digest that I have ever played in my life.,Yeah, I didn't like the destiny of some characters that I loved. My heart got broken (Really), but that doesn't mean that is something bad. Not because everything in this game is different than we expected means that is bad.,,Honestly one of the best games I've ever played.,Naughty Dog, you all did it again.
3555) You really need to be smart to understand this game. This is the best game I ever played. Thank you Naughty Dog.
3556) This game is being smeared due to the majority of player reviews having no life experience, compassion, or any emotional maturity or development at all.  I own the collector’s edition, and I thoroughly enjoyed this game. As with most sequels, it is not as good as the first which is why it is not 10/10 but this game is a masterpiece. I played this on my 10 year old tv and it was still visibly stunning.,I was expecting Joel to be "red shirted" at some point in the game, I was not expecting it so early on in the game. It genuinely ruined my day when that scene played out, and I did stop playing it when that happened, but I continued the next day. But to simply hate, and to send death threats to the actress over an expected fan favourite death is beyond comprehension! It wouldn't have been much of a revenge story if it was Dina who was murdered. We all love Joel, and we all felt the betrayal and anger of the game. Anger is a shared emotion, we share Ellie's anger, and we want to make the WLF pay. Dina to me is more of a minor detail, I was happier to have Jessie along for the ride as he was a much more useful companion, however you get the idea with how delicate Dina is when you compare her early pregnancy symptoms compared to Mel who is heavily pregnant.,The game is so much more brutal now, and you can be calculating and cruel in your actions. The details that have been put into the game can be missed if you're frothing at the mouth with your mountain dew and Cheeto fingers in your mothers basement REEEing about Abby. When you stealth kill someone, you see the light leaving their eyes, you see the death wash over their faces. If you kill a dog handler without the dog knowing, it whimpers and wines, looking for it's handler.  The visible injuries and the gore left behind from the Molotov’s and explosive arrows are harrowing. Especially when the runners are madly crawling after you with no legs - very unsettling and making me board the nope train. The bloasters are **** sted heads, full on cocaine raging at you and are pretty stressful to play against, especially whenever you face them it's always conveniently in a claustrophobic area, similarly to the shamblers.,I somewhat bonded with Abby, I understood her pain. However I was more warmed to Ellie for obvious reasons. I think Abby doesn't play as smoothly as Ellie, and I think her stealth kill is so much more slower than Ellie's, even whilst fully upgraded. I'm glad her and Owen had their moment, no matter how bitter sweet it was with Mel and how it all ended. You knew that Owen would always carry a torch for Abby, even in death. He chose to not die next to Mel, or attempt to get to Mel, he got as far away from her whilst they both bled out - the mother of his unborn child! I was pissed out with Abby's comment of Ellie and Tommy "wasting the opportunity that Abby gave them by not killing them". The audacity after hunting someone down and killing them, and didn't expect any repercussions - pot, kettle, black.,I desperately want to know more about the Scars, who their leader was. Not much is revealed even when picking the place apart. It is easily missed that the Scars only started beheading and stoning people and their kind when their leader died. How the new 'elders' allocate many wives to themselves to birth their kin. Terrifying knowing the fate of Len who was chosen at 13 to be a wife to the elder. I would do anything to avoid being trafficked by my community for some vulgar, over grown, overdue being killed, old man who abuses children and women. I am reading between the lines, but it's not a hard connection to make when a CHILD has been allocated a wife role - something we should take into consideration that happens in our world to much younger children.  I really do hope that there is DLC about the Scars, or when the long awaited MP that is in the works.,The ending was bittersweet too. I was sad that it was over. Ellie, grief stricken and taken over by PTSD, forced by Tommy and her PTSD episodes thinking that ending Abby's life would be the key to end their suffering. However upon seeing Abby, a husk of her former self, it wasn't worth the pain and energy. The hurt is from never having the chance to repair her relationship with Joel - a feeling many are familiar with when falling out with someone who then passes away. Hate eats away at you, makes you push those who mean the most to you away. You are then left with the scars of the hatred, unable to enjoy the happy memories that the deceased left you.,If you cannot understand this concept of the story, then you need to evaluate your life and your relationships with people if you cannot empathise with these emotions.
3557) This game is something special. One of those games that comes around every so often and leaves an impression that will stay with you for a long time. A must play for fans of the first and fans of the medium of games in general.
3558) Mi opinión en español , el juego es muy bueno, me encanto la verdad. Pero tiene un par de cosas...,,Aspectos a tomar en cuenta sobre lo que se está hablando:,,La muerte de Joel,Joel estaba con cierta ansiedad por haberle mentido a Ellie y peor aun cuando ella lo descubrió, es un punto en el que las personas no lo dicen,  eso cambia a las personas.,,Cuando Sara murió, Joel cambió su forma de ver la vida, cambió por completo, el dejo de ser el que era antes, si recuerdan bien, el cambio a ser muy frío y era un traficante de armas al que solo le importaba terminar con lo que debía, a todo costo. Luego conoció a Ellie y el cambio completamente, pasa todo lo que ocurrió con ellos en la primera parte  y ahora que lo vemos al final del juego llorar por Ellie, podemos darnos cuenta de que el siendo ya una persona mayor y mucho mas tranquilo, volvió a ser como en realidad es, no podemos decir "Joel habría sospechado de Abby y sus amigos" cuando el ha confiado en los hermanos negros en la primera entrega.,Y su muerte fue como la vida real lo es, de un  momento a otro. El se convirtió en un hombre noble, doblegado, es la misma persona que estaba con the last of us 1 con Sara.,,Era una bomba de tiempo para que las pocas luciérnagas quieran matar a Joel, el fue una persona mala en su momento. Y fue cuando menos se lo esperaba.,,EL FINAL,,Me parecio muy bueno. Ellie tiene un problema psicológico en el que no le dejaba tranquila por la muerte de Joel, la gente piensa que no debió ir a por Abby si no la iba a matar, no la mató porque sentía que iba a ser igual, por eso tuvo ese flashback de Joel muerto. Así que decidió aceptarlo.,,Fue un final agridulce  al ver a Ellie perder lo que mas queria...,,Extra,,Ellie se identifica con una polilla, por que buscan la luz, las luciérnagas...,,My opinion in Spanish, the game is very good, I really loved it. But it has a couple of things ...,,Aspects to take into account about what is being talked about:,,Joel's death,Joel was with some anxiety for having lied to Ellie and worse even when she discovered it, it is a point where people do not say it, that changes people.,,When Sara died, Joel changed his way of seeing life, he changed completely, he stopped being what he was before, if you remember correctly, the change to be very cold and he was an arms dealer who only cared about ending what he owed, at all costs. Then he met Ellie and the change completely, everything that happened with them in the first part happens and now that we see him at the end of the game cry for Ellie, we can realize that being an older person and much calmer, he returned To be as it really is, we cannot say "Joel would have suspected Abby and his friends" when he has trusted the black brothers in the first installment.,And his death was like real life is, from one moment to another. He became a noble man, bent, he is the same person who was with the last of us 1 with Sara.,,It was a time bomb for the few fireflies to want to kill Joel, he was a bad person at the time. And it was when I least expected it.,,THE END,,I thought it was very good. Ellie has a psychological problem in which she was not left alone because of Joel's death, people think that she should not have gone after Abby if he was not going to kill her, she did not kill her because she felt that she was going to be the same, that's why she had that flashback of dead Joel. So he decided to accept it.,,It was a bittersweet ending when I saw Ellie lose what she loved most ...,,Extra,,Ellie identifies with a moth, because they look for the light, the fireflies ...
3559) “An eye for an eye leaves the whole world blind.”,,With the sensation that the game will give us something, and it sure did, but in a whole different way than expected. This game is surely not for the people who wants a happy ending when all the characters are flawed with anger and hate, and of course, survival instinct. This game revises the human condition, what revenge will lead us to, and the road to forgiveness.,,The game is the most stunning one I have ever played in the PS4, with visuals and details that will be still speak of in the following years. Surely I will play it again in the near future.,,If you're willing to play this game and you're a hardcore "TLoU" fan, please enter with a mature and objective mind. This is surely a masterpiece to be enjoyed.
3560) Before I get started first thing I want to say is that The Last of Us is my favorite game series ever. The original game has been number one on my list since I first played it, and I have played the game all the way through at least 35 times or more. I was eager about The Last of Us Part 2 and waited forever for the game. I purchased a new PS4 in 2017 in hopes to get the game and I waited and waited until I had played so many games I decided to get another PS4 before playing this masterpiece. I bought a PS4 Pro as an upgrade and awaited the game. Suddenly all these leaks come out. Everyone is downing the game and I find out Joel dies. Well I had expected Joel to die oddly enough. Unlike some others it wasn't a surprise to me at all. However the way they took him out did surprise me, but honestly the leaks had me even more hyped than before. I couldn't wait to learn who these new characters were and what the new story was like. While some hated the story I found it fitting of the characters Ellie and Joel and also found it very realistic. When pulling back the layers of the game you get a glimpse of each persons role in the Murder of Joel, and even get to analyze them as a group. Each has their own part in the whole drama and I found it all to be very well done just like the original. The graphics are a 10, Sound is amazing and is a 10. Story? I loved it myself. So much care went into every aspect of this game and it really comes off as a film or show, and the acting is top notch. The game-play is brutal and the story veers into some horror levels equal with RE7 and the remakes. The Boss in the Hospital was amazing and much more well done than I had expected. Naughty Dog has really done well pushing the PS4 beyond it's limits. It is a very violent game and if that is what you are looking for look no further. The combat feels great and is addictive to play. I am already playing a second time through on new game plus. So much hate for such a great game. Don't let other deter you. If you are interested in this game just buy it, it is amazing to behold. I can say The Last of Us and The Last of Us Part 2 stand on the same line for me. They are both masterpieces and compliment each other instead of rehashing the same thing.
3561) This was and emotional rollercoaster that left me gutted and sobbing, but I enjoyed this experience very much. The more time passes, the more I think about this game, the more I love it. Thank you, ND!
3562) Video and audio is fantastic. AI of enemies is also great. Gameplay is similar to the firt part but everything is bigger and better. The only controversial thing is story which I personally like (especially how it's told) but I understand that not everybody can share that opinion. If you are mad for lgbt topic means that you are a kid or didn't play the whole game. There are some of those mainly at the beginning but really thats not important and it's shown naturally.
3563) True gamers will like this game for sure. This is a truthful sequel. If u don't like the shock. Better play last of us 2. There will be no difference in the story if there is no shock in part 2. last of us 2 is masterpiece
3564) I was worried about the leaks but I decided not to look too much into it and pre-ordered it anyway. Went to it with an open mind and oh boy! This game deserves the title of masterpiece, I don't think I have experienced such an emotional turmoil for a game ever. Don't let people tell you the story is bad, it's very well written, heart wrenching and deeply disturbing. The cinematographic elements are worthy of a film. The new gameplay elements are also welcomed. Whatever your opnion, it will not leave you indifferent.
3565) This is a powerful, emotional, breathtaking game that delivers on all the promise of the first one (which was terrific too but I don't think affected me in quite the same way) It's not a game I'd play for a light bit of shooty fun, but that's quite obviously the point. There were definite points in the game where going through it felt draining and hard emotionally but it's incredible that a game can now achieve that level of empathy and immersion. There were points where I definitely questioned decisions in how the game is structured and how I felt about certain characters, but I was always left convinced. This game treats the player as an adult who can handle characters that are flawed, not instantly likeable or just irritating. Regardless of how I felt initially about characters initially, my thoughts and feelings were constantly changing and being questioned and I felt something for all of them. This game is an experience like no other I've played and while I think it'll be a while before I (if ever) play through it again, I'll never forget this playthrough and it will stay with me forever.,,Ignore the petty backlash from strange men arriving to this game with preconceptions and prejudices, and who have in most cases haven't played it. If you have an open mind and are looking for something to make you question and think about human fallibility, emotional conflict and so on, then definitely pick this up.
3566) Im just amazed of how many **** retards there are in the world that dont understand the game. Gotta suck be that **** stupid. Just fascinating.,,Amazing game, I wanna do a memory wipe and experience it all again :),,But you need a brain to understand why the characters do some of the choices. If you dont get it, then **** play something else, stupid ****
3567) Incredible game, with incredible ending, revenge never leads anywhere, trying to show us both sides of the same coin, the development and ellie during the game is something exciting, everything in the game is incredible, the inclusion of both lgbts and disabled people , congratulations for the game.
3568) I found this to be an incredible game, and experience. All I can say is thank you Naughty Dog.
3569) I can say about this game only one thing. This is an absolute masterpiece. I can't fully understand the low scores of this game
3570) I love the game dispite some minor problems like the pacing and time jump but overall, i absolutely love the game, the gameplay is absolutely insane there's no other game that does what this game does, i'm extremely impressed by how real it feels to kill, when you shoot a person in the head in the game, they just shut down much like what you see in real police videos, blood splatter and everything, it's just insane and no other game does it so perfectly, i love how they showed the game from the perspectiveof Abyy, that was something totally different and unique, 10/10 from me.
3571) Story: 10/10 Graphics: 10/10 Gameplay: 10/10 Replay Ability: 10/10 Sound: 10/10 Overall Score: 10/10 ITS A MASTERPIECE 10/10
3572) Do not believe these reviews, play it yourself. I loved it and I would play it again.
3573) Just because it doesn't have a happy ending that means its a bad game, in fact the way I felt playing this game (bitter) makes the the whole game a master piece.
3574) I've never posted anything on Metacritic before, but I felt I had to concerning the user reviews I've seen concerning this game.,,This game is a masterpiece, I've loved every second of it! Sure I was biased because I loved the first one and I'm also a huge fan of these type of games (Mass Effect mention), but this game has had me hooked from the go.,,I can't begin to understand the other review here. The characters are, to me, extremely believable. I actually care for Ellie (and Dina) and the story is every bit as gripping as the first one. Sure there are things with the game that are less intriguing, running around in the open going from place A to place B for example. But these things does not diminish the fact that this game, this story, these characters are worthy of praise.,,Again, what other users are saying here does not resonate with my experience, I love this game.
3575) All these other reviews are small potatoes. People that decided to not give the game a chance because they were paying attention to online spoilers before it was released. This review is from a true fan of the original that has played it countless times, now finding myself surprised by what came next. Chapter two brings to light what I imagined would happen down the road for Ellie and Joel. But in a much more graphic and emotionally stirring way. My girlfriend does not even like games and found herself crying just watching it. The basis for true art in any form of media is whether or not you can emotionally connect with it. The Last of Us 2 delivered on every level, and left me more satisfied than any game I've played in years.
3576) I don't know how they did it, but Neil Druckman's team surpassed the insane expectations I personally had for this sequel. It's a story full of twists that involves you from the second you ride into Jackson as Joel. The graphics were astonishing, the acting made you forget that the people weren't real, and the story just felt... raw. Authentic. Things made sense, even though it sometimes didn't go the way you want it to, very much like in Game of Thrones. As a piece of literature, this game really outdid itself - you feel that there are layers upon layers beneath the sentences spoken and the things done by your character. The number of times I covered my mouth in shock, or awe, or sadness, or chuckled at the stabs (metaphorical) or stiffened up at the real stabs they took at each other, are countless. The Gameplay mechanics are fluid, and feel so grounded. You feel every shot you take, every dodge leaves your heart throbbing, crawling/sneaking around felt real.,I'm jealous you get to play this game for the first time. This was an unforgettable experience, and a more than worthy successor to the genius that is The Last of Us.
3577) The living proof that a game can be something more.,It's a sad, real and moving story but at the same time you can find happiness and joy in the little thing, in the looks exchanged between characters and in the dialogues... like real life.,As a game it has an incredible fun game-play improved compared to the first one
3578) Revenge and Forgiveness.,Two side of the same coin, like the protagonists of this story.,If the first one was a really good game,  Part 2 goes beyond and reaches a depth like very few other games.,From a game play perspective, TLOU Part 2 is fun and well-produced. Level design, lights, models, music and the OST... an outstanding job
3579) This is just the best creation in the gaming industry of all time.  Very emotional and captivating, a necessary story.
3580) TLOU part 2 is really a very good game, the gameplay is improved compared to part 1, the sound in the game is very good, the graphics are very realistic and detailed, the plot a lot of people say is meaningless but for me  then it conveyed a lot of meaningful messages, brought me a lot of emotions: happy, sad, angry, forgiving, merciful .... Playing to the end when I saw joel and I cried. 10/10
3581) This game is absolutely amazing. Why people feel offended by the story is rediculos. I have never experienced a better story in any game.
3582) i loved the gameplay, graphics and story. i know many didn't love this but I'm halfway through my second playthrough I'm that addicted. i know its a divisive game. but srsly **** those **** ass mother****ers that are review bombing the game. there is no problem with joel's death ok too tired to explain y just know its divisive but ppl can love it **** the haters that are hating for no reason
3583) One of the greatest games I have ever played. This game takes the necessary risks to elevate it to the next level. For those wanting more of the same as far as story than this isn't for you. This is a complete vision coming to life and also pulling it off in my opinion. Give it a chance and keep an open mind, you owe it to yourself to do that much.
3584) I love this game. It is simply a masterpiece. Thank you Naughty Dog. I hope one day I can play the last of us 3 :)
3585) Perfect game! From A to Z. Amazing performance by the cast, music, story, graphics, duration, everything is a masterpiece!
3586) This game, in my opinion, is nothing but spectacular. It has what I would say are the best graphics on any video game to date, the lightning is simply gorgeous and the colors really shine. The environments are extremely detailed and feel real, which adds to the game’s realism factor.,Gameplay feels very fluid and responsive, combat is very satisfying and the controls are perfect, much like it’s predecessor. The game gives you all the tools to tackle every situation of danger how you prefer, which makes the outcome more rewarding as well as making the game your own playground to fiddle with. The best part about combat and stealth is that the game, as stated, gives you multiple ways to handle the same objective. That sense of freedom is extremely fun and creates creativity in how you explore your surroundings as well as  being strategic with how you play. Looting and exploring never feels boring in this game and sometimes scavenging can create unique dialogues or interestering new scenarios. What I like about The Last of Us Part II is that two people can play this game and have a completely different experience depending on how the choose to play.,Level design is nothing but amazing, each new area that you explore feels refreshing and you can notice how ambitious Naughty Dog is with creating areas that feel and look real. The level design combined with the amazing gameplay makes for a super enjoyable time that you never get tired of. The story is without a doubt the most hated part of the game. That is for the most part due to the leaks that got out a month before the game’s release. Some are not satsified with the way the plot was directed. or that they simply have a hard time caring for the game. Others struggled to really care for the characters or the enviroments due to the way the game was written, which I can understand. Personally however I can say that it is written in a sometimes messy way, but I still feel like the story is one of the best and more touching of video game history. This game was very emotional troughout the entirety of the game and it ended extremely sad. The game makes you feel, and care for Ellie and the people she loves. The ending really broke me emotionally. The story in my opinion was really great and it was so fun and interesting to follow the characters as they go trough an emotional joyride troughout the game’s story. Sometimes the games takes a minute or two to slow down and appricieate the environment or the situation, which I personally love. The Last of Us Part II is ambitious, bold, daring, emotional and powerful. Overall I think the story is great and powerful, and it really make you feel which a good story should.,The reason I give this game a 10 is that it is utterly amazing at all aspects and the amount of fun that I had playing this game makes me even more excited to see what’s next for Naughty Dog. No matter what, I think that this is a project that Neil Druckmann and his team should be extremely proud of, and you can clearly see the ambition and dedication to put out this fantastic game in every corner of it. This is a must play.
3587) Absolute riveting story about the futility of revenge.  Naught Dog could have played it safe with the story to appease the masses but chose to take risks. I applaud their courage.
3588) 3 easy steps. Buy the game, play the game, finish the game!!! Then you vote...
3589) Fantastic story and I loved how it gave me a mixture of emotions, which many games fail to achieve nowadays. I am on my third play through and I will play it more in the future I have no doubt. The negative reviews are unfair and a lot coming from people who just like to jump on the bandwagon or have not even played the game because of a certain one thing that happens. To anyone new playing.... give it a chance and see how you feel.... Personally I think naughty dog did an incredible job of gameplay, story and gave me a game I will remember for the rest of my life. Controversial to many but bloody brilliant and goes to show how passionate people are for this game. 10/10.
3590) The story and the visuals were absolutely amazing! I'm sick and tired of everything labeling the game as "Naughty Dog's Downfall" all because of Joel being killed by Abby.,,His death was going to come whether we'd like it to or not. He was a bad person, he did bad things. There were people coming after him and he knew that. That's why he already knew Abby had some sort of business with him.,,I'm tired of everyone just assuming because Joel is dead, this game is horrible. Characters we love die all the time. Maybe I just have a better understanding of why Joel was killed, or maybe it's because I've played Danganronpa before and I can understand a death that had a bunch of controversies and different opinions on whether that character should have died or not. Or maybe Danganronpa just taught me how to not be a little **** when a main character dies.,,There was character growth with Abby when Yara and Lev became apart of the story. She grew as a person and wanted to do nothing but protect those kids. She became like Joel in a way and I think that just really shows how she is as a person.,,Some people are complaining about how Ellie wouldn't do what she did, but that's the thing about grieving. It can change you as a person. I've lost my mother-in-law almost two years ago (July 10th) and I'm not the same person I was two years ago. She was like a mother to me, and believe me- I would never actually harm a person. I don't like the idea of killing, but if I were in Ellie shoes- I would absolutely go after my parent's killers. It would change me as a person and I know this.,,It really shows the true nature of grieving and the true nature of revenge. Nothing good can come out of revenge, and that was the message they were trying to place in the story.,,Also, Abby's "backstory" wasn't there for a literal backstory. It was there to try and show you what kind of person her father was before he was murdered by Joel. That's the only reason on why it was there. To show her process through grieving too and to show why Ellie and Abby were so similar but so different at the same time.,,The plot holes are there, I'd admit that- but I think they might have done that on purpose. There's already a discussion about making a part three, so maybe they left those questions unanswered so they're able to answer them later down the road. You never know- Naughty Dog might even post a DLC even though they said they wouldn't. They've done things they said they were going to do before.,,All I'm saying is you can't hate or love this game until you give it a try and actually play it. Naughty Dog literally stated you'll either love it or hate it and that there's no in between. So go ahead and just get the game and play through it yourself. Give yourself the chance to experience it and create your own opinion.
3591) I think folks that gave this game 0/10 just hours after its official release and apparently never played it should get their head out of their *** and grow up.,Game mechanics are smooth (but there is nothing groundbreaking new in regard to its predecessor), graphics (especially scenery, animations and facial expressions) are absolutely stunning considering the current gen hardware and the story is as brutal and serious like it can be expected in respect to the world and the background of TLOU.,The point of the game is not about liking or for the most part even relating to the playable characters, but about regularly questioning their motives anew and wondering if the price that has to be paid is really worth it.,Part II is a deep game, it is an intellectual demanding and for the most part taxing and bold game. For me it was a great experience and I wouldn't miss it for this world.
3592) This game is a masterpiece. Sure it has an emotionally devastating plot that has fueled a lot of negative reviews, but that’s part of what makes the game so great. Overall it’s a more developed story than the first game with great additional characters and multiple perspectives. Gameplay 10/10 graphics 10/10 story 10/10
3593) In aspects of gameplay and visuals, it improves everything from the previous game. The level of detail and polishing is simply perfect.,The story is not what most of us expected, but for me this is the damn good thing! In my opinion it is a very brave way of telling a story that can only be done in a videogame. We are not used to stories told like this, but personally it made my feel very strong situations that could not reach in other way.
3594) I was lucky to have avoided spoilers. A devastingly beautiful narrative tour de force. Fantastic performances and bold story telling. Technically brilliant and perhaps the most gorgeous game on any platform despite being on PS4. Avoid spoilers if you can, as I did, and you'll be able to enjoy this story of violent retribution, empathy and redemption. I understand how this game is devisive, if you don't like it you're probably justified. But for me, this narrative nailed all its story beats and for me, is PS4's best game.,,Highly recommended.
3595) The Last Of Us 2 - is a beautifully painful story about broken people in the post-apocalypse world. Playing this game is painful because you feel every punch and suffer from f the characters. And what is amusing not just the main character, but even your enemies.,,I loved this game. Not as much as I loved the first part because the second part shows more cruelty and human nature. This part is much harder to not to be sad. This part gives you the same feeling of "What would I have done in this situation?", "What is right in this situation?" and so on.,,I can't imagine how much time, effort, and work were put in the creation of this game.,Thank you so much Naughty Dog! Waiting for your new game breathless.
3596) Amazing story, great character development, excellent graphics for a PS4. instant classic, even better than TLOU part 1
3597) I cant understand why there is so much hate to the game, its true that there are some parts of the story that we didnt like and we would change, but it wont change my opinion of the game,,,it is a masterpiece, i have never been so impacted emotionally before by any other movie, serie or game.,,I think it not deserves a 10/10 but all the bad critics are not objective, they are just mad and angry because of Joel´s death and the fact that Abby is alive, but it doesnt mean that the game deserves a 0/10.
3598) Masterpiece!!,Best game i´ve ever played, naughty dog surprises us once more!,The game is perfect in all, gameplay, story and graphics.,10/10
3599) Complete distraction, nothing more.,As the main feature of Last of Us was a story - now this story is very bad.,When you see how f****st ideology was implemented in scenario, in characters - you see the actual result. You have non-evolving characters, non-interesting gameplay ( gameplay did not evolve from first game), absense of characters motivation in most of cases.,When you see this game, you just think "It could be a masterpiece. But now... this is politics"
3600) Naught dog i think were trying to show to show what was right and wrong. With all the back and forth revenge it just shows you lose more and what you gain from taking revenge. So in a way i think this is a social experiment too to see how many people in the world think revenge is the right choose but really its a double edge sword. I still dont like how Abby killed joel nor do i fully feel sorry for her but i understand why she did what she did. I woukdnt give this game a 10/10 or a 1/10., i would give this game a 6/10... just trying to boost the rating to a 6
3601) Really good game, graphics, movement and story
3602) A perfect game visually and the story is great even though Joel died ... I was gagged for days and I didn’t want to stop playing ... cis straight people saying otherwise because they can’t get over the fact that Abby has more muscle than them and that threatens them .... Well as Tatiana said #choices
3603) I loved this game, it has one of the best if not the best gameplay. They nailed it with the story and has become a gold standard for story driven game. Must buy.
3604) Truly a magnificent tale of sorrow and rage, an eye for an eye leaves the whole world blind
3605) Ita an incredible masterpiece of gaming Full of action and emotion, It ia one of the best games that i Will ever play in my life, qnd surely marked me
3606) This is a very thought provoking game that will have you thinking even after you are done playing. The gameplay is fluid and graphics are gorgeous. Can't state enough how much i recommend it.
3607) I **** loved thid game. People are very upset that joel died and i get it we all love joel but saying that the game is **** because joel died in a **** up way is just stupid... I mean this is a post apocalypthic world people just die and thats all there is no heroic deaths in this universe. I loved the overall gameplay, the graphics are just the best in the world, the sou dtrack and music are incredible so for me this is the best game of 2020.
3608) Don't believe what others write, play, experience it yourself. This game is not as bad as some people say. I've enjoyed it, every single aspect of it.
3609) Love when a studio dare to take a risk. the way this game play with your feelings, is amazing!
3610) wow wt an amazing game i dont know why  people are hating abby she good though 10/10 graphics are next level and gameplay is far better than other games just ignore the negative reviews just play enjoy this masterpiece game
3611) This game was an absolute pleasure to experience. Thanks ND for working your butts off to make such a wonderful story, cast of characters, and world.
3612) The Last of Us Part 2 is on par, if not better than Part 1. From story, to graphic and game play, this is one of the best video games ever made. I finally beat it yesterday and had a night to sit and think about it. It has one of the best stories that challenges your viewpoint in many areas. I can understand why some people may be upset about certain choices but for the narrative they all make sense. The ending is thought provoking just like the end of the first game. I'm extremely glad this game was made and i look forward to another installment, if Naughty Dog chooses to stay in this world.
3613) This is the first game that made me think about writing a review. It's one of those games that I loved so much when I finished, that is hard to me for even see the negative thoughts a lot of people have towards it. For me it was an unprecedented experience, that challenged me to look a lot of different perspectives of a single story, to love and hate some characters at the same time, and lead me to revisit and even question beloved characters. There are a lot of people that probably got angry by some decisions the studio had, but I really believe that the story they wanted to tell just made me love even more the characters, understand that they have flaws, that they are humans.I really enjoyed the game I played, and the game Naughty Dog played with me!
3614) Truthful performances are like a mirror. They make us look at ourselves. And when we don’t like what we see, it can fill us with fear, which easily becomes rage. You’re clearly doing something right. Keep being brave, Bailey. Let them rage cowardly behind screen names.
3615) Best game ever! I've never been so tensed about a videogame, it really makes you feel all the emotions
3616) Naughty dog are the "Martin Scorsese" of the gaming industry! Congratulations on a great and adventurous game.
3617) A masterpiece, this game is why video game is called art ! I will remember it for a long time
3618) You have to be seriously biased or dishonest to give this game a rating of 0. A rating you would give to games full of bugs, with outdated graphics and a horrible gameplay. TLOU2 is the exact opposite of that. People have forgotten they were playing a game... but of course since half of the people who rated badly this game have only watched it on a stream, that explains a lot...,I will not repeat what was already said by many others, the game is a masterpiece and gave me emotions that I have never felt with a game, ever....,Go blind, and dont listen to the haters, TLOU2 will be remembered as one of the best and most daring game of its generation.
3619) This is an awesome game. Gameplay wise it is much better than the first game in terms of mechanics, balance, enemy and weapon variety etc. Level design is a huge achievement for Naughty Dog, they jumped very high in this one, maybe even too high. There is a lot things you may say about the gameplay, but for some reason most of the people don't and they don't seem to care so let's go straight to the story.,The story is great. People who say about plotholes or smth didn't pay much attention during their playthrough, pretty much everything is explained, even things you might not care about. The storytelling sets a new mark for cinematic videogames, I'd even say that not every movie achieved so much in terms of cinema language. The story is told with the rule - show, don't tell. Pretty much every action and character motivation is shown and not told to you verbally, so you have to think and try to understand the characters by paying attention to all the things they say and do, all the flashbacks shown to you etc. Many people weren't prepared for this, especially after the first game which was pretty easy to understand. Actors in this game play their roles flawlessly and every cinema aspect from camera angles to dialogues is made beautifully. Also story structure is very nonstandard not only for a videogame but for a movie too, but I won't spoil anything, you should play the game for yourself. I give it 10 out 10 because it was one of the most unique experiences I've had in videogames. I tried to not spoil anything so you would get the whole experience for yourself because this game deserves it.
3620) Great story, great gameplay, great visuals. Naughty Dog could have made a ton of money by just making a cookie cutter sequel of Ellie and Joel going to New York to get a MacGuffin but they chose to do something far more exciting and risky. The subject matter is very affecting and once players get over the trauma of playing it and allow the story's broader themes to soak in it will hopefully start to get regarded as the masterpiece that it is.
3621) A masterpiece of a game that really challenges you to question the motives and your preconceptions of each character in so many different ways, to the extent that you end up even questioning yourself at times.,,It's not quite 100% perfect - it can very occasionally drag or feel disjointed - but for me there's still more than enough to set it aside from any other game from this generation and to justify a 10/10 score. It's brutal, intense, terrifying, saddening and beautiful. Even the parts that you initially think you don't like soon turn out to be key parts of the narrative, and they win you over in an amazing way.,,Ignore all the people spamming the internet with negative reviews without playing it. A game like this can't be missed out on - it's an incredible piece of story-telling that you just don't otherwise find in a game. It challenges your ideas on what a game and even what a story arc should be.
3622) Everyone who rated it 0 thinks they are experts rating lol, I'm sure most of them only watched gamplays on YouTube. The truth is an excellent game.
3623) I was and am a massive fan of part 1. The story in part 2 was very original, unpredictable and took a lot of risks which I like personally.  There is a lot of deep psychology involved. The graphics and gameplay are some of the best  in any game ever.  Damn near perfect game, I didn't want it to end.
3624) Even after all the bad critics and the really painful story, this is one of the best games ever created and at least for me this one is better than first part.
3625) If you’re someone who feels entitled to a story because you payed 15 - 60 bucks for a game and liked it, then don’t play this game.,If you’re a homophobic bigot who “doesnt want politics in his game” then dont play this game.,If you read the leaks and didnt like what you read, actually play this game because playing it is not the same as reading it.,,If you like a rollercoaster story, then play this game.,If you want to see the PS4 pushed to its limits, then play this game.,If you want another story about the relationship between Joel and Ellie, then play this game.,,Also, I emplore everyone to play their 1st playthrough on Survivor difficulty, this game seems built for that.
3626) I have no idea why this game has garnered so much immense hate. Coming from someone who counted down the days for years upon the announcement of the first Last of Us, I can say this game is undoubtedly on an equal level as the first. Gameplay is familiar but massively improved, graphics are actually astounding, better than the next ven console trailer's, and the story is fantastic.  It is hard to find a developer with the balls to take the risks they took with this game. And the ending was unbelievable.  Most impactful and intense ending I've ever experienced.
3627) Excepcional game! One of the best games of all times . Deep, emotional and makes you think,In different perspectives.
3628) Game is a masterpiece, seriously, don't listen to all the haters. Best game in genre yet.
3629) An incredible game that adds even more depth to the story and characters of the first game. The game is bleak and brutal with bouts of beauty.  The gameplay is astonishing and the graphics a level beyond any other game on the PS4; all in all get another masterpiece from Naughty Dog.
3630) One of the Best game so far ! Love thé story, gameplay and graphic !!!!!!!
3631) In simple words, master piece.,The mechanics, gameplay, history, characters, incredible, must play this game by yourself.
3632) I didn't get my hopes high, so i wasn't that much hyped for this. But this game did delivered to me. That's adventure was awesome. I was kinda dissapointed from the first part, cuz all the shootings were simillar in the different environment. The best game play and the graphics in the generation of ps4.
3633) Well written game with interesting Charakters that deeply touched me. It tells the story of how violence only creates more violence. You will think about it long after you finished it. In my opinion a true masterpiece and how a story driven game is supposed to be. I cant understand why so many people hate it. I bet most of them haven't played it or are just bigots that hate it on principle. Sure, nothing is perfect and if you don't like games, that focus mainly on storytelling and not game play, than this game probably isn't something for you, but if you enjoyed the first game, than you will love this one.
3634) So far the best game I've played in this year!!! Amazing gameplay, amazing characters and an impressive, poignant story... 10/10!!!
3635) The game is amazing, people are behaving like spoiled brats and bombing the game because they do not agree with the history.
3636) For me its a Masterpiece. Best Game ever. Even better as the first one. Perfect Storytelling.
3637) Nice game and beautiful ends. The Last of Us Part 2 very expressive. I love this game.
3638) 10/10,Much better than last of us 1,Graphics out of the box,NPCs and AI top,Best history ever,Game of the year
3639) No game/movie/media has made me *feel* like this game has. We are extremely fortunate to have Naughty Dog in the gaming industry.
3640) The game delivers extremely nice graphics and incredible sound design. The gameplay is basically the same as in The Last Of Us 1, just improved.,The story takes you through all kinds of emotions. But the story is so well written and told through great acting. No game has given me such a great experience as The Last Of Us 2. Don't listen to the haters, the game is good.,I respect and thank Naughty Dog for this incredible game !
3641) A game that can introduce hatred into the real world,Not perfect yet?,It takes courage to be hated, especially 3A games,Another game spindle is forgive,Seeing the last, I really understood that the person Ellie forgave was not Abby, but herself.
3642) Amazing game,will play with your emotions.Prepare to be hurt and feel hate.Never experienced such strong feelings in a game before.
3643) Amazing game which only improves on mechanics from the first game. Ignore the 1 star reviews.
3644) If you loved the first game, please play this and ignore the facile low review scores.  Trust in the storytellers, and play through to the end.  It's an incomparable gaming experience.
3645) This is the most touching story, it is very deep and heartbreaking, makes you cry with every memory. I fully understand what the developers might have intended, and they knew that most people would not understand the message. This is a multi-faceted cycle of violence that needs to be stopped and not succumb to your instincts, which say that everything must be stopped by radical measures. The plot of the second part can sharpen the character of naive people, this is a beautiful universe that ended very painfully. As if it would end in real life. Thanks.
3646) this game doesn't do fan service, people hate it for that reason. Despite how angry and sad this game made me, I love it for exactly that reason. This is life imitating art, quite far from what so many gamers are familiar with. This game requires you to be open-minded to the greatest extent, If you walk in the game with a traditional mindset, you will hate it. Open up your mind a little, and you will have played a masterpiece. This game is impactful, depressing, beautiful, just gets you feeling all sorts of things. I LOVE THIS GAME!
3647) Nice gameplay, at the end You understood why all the things happen, and yes Joel dies
3648) Absolutely amazing game. Stunning scenery, great story and great game play. Sad to see that people didnt have the same experience as me from this masterpiece.
3649) This is a mind blowing game for the full 28 hours that I invested. Having played the Last of Us part I 4 years ago I was really looking forward to this game and Naughty Dog delivered massively.,Again the storyline was sublime, it was a rollercoaster ride from love to revenge and from self hatred towards pity for your opponents. How this game makes you as a player part of the story is something that no other game of film ever does.
3650) The game is incredible, from the settings to the characters, the only problem is the order of events, the story is sad and implicit, leading to complex morality. (value your loved ones, because you do not know when they are no longer),The game is a masterpiece that does not convey the same message as the first game, but rather conveys the consequences of the acts carried out in tlou 1.,The game, the settings, the villains, characters, story is perfect.,(personal opinion)
3651) I feel like most of the people who hate the game did not really understood the story. Yes it's about revenge but it's just a part of the entire story. This game makes you come out of your comfort zone and did something no other game I have ever played has done before. I felt uncomfortable a lot while playing but at the end I felt different. If you are not willing to come out of your comfort zone and widen your vision on everything and every character you will hate the game for sure.,The story made sense. We don't like to see that our heroes have flaws or to sympathize with our enemies. But in the end the world is not black and white.
3652) This game is far more engaging, thought-provoking and memorable than the original, which is saying quite a lot. The plot will upset a lot of people, especially seeing as many people who have read the leaks want to hate the game to defend their ego. I think for anyone with an open mind and who is not a delusional fan boy of some of the characters in the original (to the extent of wrongfully considering them a saint) this game is a strong game of the year contender and one of the most unique and best stories in gaming,
3653) Absolutely stunning. Great writing. Chemistry between characters is out of this world.
3654) Absolutely amazing game!! Put me on a very, very emotional rollercoaster, but loved every moment of it! Definitely one of my favourite games :)
3655) The last of us 2 is good game A plot with a vengeance message leads nowhere and excellent gameplay
3656) Best game I‘ve ever played. I feel sorry for the developers of this beautiful game, its a pity that their work is not being honored as it should.
3657) This is the best game that i’ve ever played. I’m happy that the review score is going up now that the people who actually played the game are giving their reviews. GOTY 2020
3658) If you want a good story line, then this is for you. So gripping and entertaining. A path of vengeance with a seeming endless loop, the empathy you feel for all characters has you confused on which side to take. Great graphics, some added story to Ellie and a new character whom you are meant to hate but can’t. I was left wanting more, just like the first installment. This is the next chapter to Ellie’s life, not Joel. But it’s a thrilling ride.
3659) At first I would rate this game a 6, but after I replayed it and really pay attention to every event and scene that happened, there were so many important story details that I missed. You need full attention, I mean FULL attention to really understand the story and it's message and it's much more than just revenge, it's forgiveness but also having a peace with yourself and how you deal with grief and anger. 25 hours of mostly killing people is not enough to tell a big story like this, and they're using these little subtle hints to tell what is actually happening and most people won't notice these hints, which hurts the game for those people. The game needs more time (not gameplay time) so they  don't need use these subtle hints to tell the story. Plus it's not a straightforward storytelling, which is not ideal for the people that play the game intermittently, those people would forget what has happened in the game. For me it's a great solid game, with amazing acting and animation (the best I've ever seen), marvelous soundtrack, fun stealth, satisfying combat (some of it dragged out more than I would like), a little confusing story at first but not anymore. And that is 8.8/10. But I will post it 10 because so many fake players giving it 0 which is not fair at all, so a 10 for balance things out.
3660) This game is not for everyone, it is very bleak, intense and even emotionally draining at times. If you played and liked the first one, which was also one of the most intense games there was story wise, you know what kind of story you should expect.,It is a game in which you should really invest time and effort, you should listen to the conversations, read Ellie’s journal, look around and definitely not rush it or play it whilst being distracted.,Graphics and gameplay wise, it’s the smoothest game I’ve ever experienced. It is extremely realistic and makes for an immersive experience like no other. It is extremely polished, and the amount of attention to detail is mind blowing.,The realness of it might scare some away, it is not a cliché good vs bad story, it is not always linear and it explores a lot of tough themes. But overall, that makes its impact bigger than any game I’ve ever played, and it pushes you to new places. So, if you play it you should keep an open mind, and ask yourself why they decided for the story to go this or that way, why you feel this and that emotion and so on. Although most scenes are far from pleasant and it might not be the ending you would want, it makes for a much more real, interesting and raw story. They make you question everything you thought about such and such character, their decisions and actions, they make you empathize with people you never thought you would, and deliver an ending that has many layers to it.,If you want a game that’s all about shooting and killing zombies, this is not for you. If you want a happy ending, more cliché/typical revenge story, this is not for you. If you want something light and fun to distract you this is definitely not for you. But if you want a beautifully layered complex story, that will immerse you to a whole new level, that will make you cry, laugh, be terrified, be angry, be happy; if you want to experience next level graphics and gameplay, if you want to witness insanely good acting, and if you want to test yourself, this is definitely worth it.,This is by far the game that made me feel the most intense emotions I have ever felt in a game before, and for that, I applaud Naughty Dog. They went for it, they went where no one else dares to go, and although not always a comfortable experience, it was one of the most memorable experience I’ve had, and feel very blessed I got to experience it.
3661) This game is a masterpiece. Ignore all the haters. First time a game made me reflect internally as a person and walk in someone else's shoes. This game has a very powerful message and can only be understood by playing it.
3662) Awesome game, all the hate its maked by **** idiots, its awesome!!!!!!!!!!!
3663) One of the Best games I've played in my life. There is a lot of emotion in everything, the enemies don't just die, their friends Cry when someone dies, a dog starts crying when his owner dies, the placement of the enemies, The stealth, the combat, the story, everything is deep and tense in this game, the world building is incredible.
3664) What an incredible game! A must play. A bit lengthy, but the story pays off in a way that no other game has in ages. Maybe not since the first last of us.
3665) I love this game,♥
3666) A game that I will never forget.  It certainly has faults but overall it is an excellent experience which does not deserve the bashing it has undergone. The graphics are incredible and the gameplay is a mix between Uncharted and the 1st game, while improving it. The scenario can be debatable but it is nonetheless striking.
3667) Beautiful game and progresses the game industry with more diverse characters that actually have layers.
3668) amazing it's perfect i loved it ... hope part 3 comes out soon
3669) Loved it all the way through it. From the Story over the Sound to the Look. Hell of a ride. Thank you Naughty Dog
3670) Whereas some might disagree on the story that did not go there way and leaving their minds closed for what the writers intend you to play. A majority of others like myself immensely enjoyed the parallel worlds between the 2 main characters. On top of that, you can expect another great visualized Naughty Dog world with lots of gruesome and dark combat with the player being rewarded for their stealth and craftmanship. TLOU2 has the best graphics for this generation of consoles and definitely will make players gaze at the wonders a post-apocalyptic world.
3671) Most people reviewing the game negatively haven't even played it, just jumping on the fake outrage bandwagon.,,The characters, story, graphics and sound are all outstanding.,,Sure parts of the story can stir up strong emotions, but that doesn't not warrant these kinds of reviews, it's a credit to the writing and storytelling that you feel these emotions. No one was hating on Game of Thrones in the early seasons when the big surprise plot points happened, it added to the experience. Maybe this is being treated differently due to some of the characters, misinterpretations of them, who they are as people and their backgrounds . These aren't shoehorned in, they are part of the world and also the world we live in, to which it seems some ppl cannot accept.,,It's tricky at times to not get carried away and join in with the crowd, sometimes it's best to try experience these things in a vacuum and form your own opinions. Dialogue and conversation are important, but so is making up your own opinion.,,Of course, some of the negative reviews are genuine, but as most of them were added before or just minutes after the game released, which tells you all you need to know.,,One of the outstanding games of this generation and a benchmark for gaming experiences going forward
3672) I truly loved the game after I myself let the hate go. Was hating playing as Abby then boom she grew on me. Started enjoying it at the end so I'm replaying on newgame+ to actually enjoy it fully. Everything was perfect! I felt literally every emotion playing this game. Hoping for a part lll!!!
3673) Really enjoyed the game; one thing I would tell people discouraged by controversy is it's worth experiencing yourself. To me, it felt like many people misunderstood the game.
3674) Best graphics on any console to date, topnotch gameplay, amazing sound design, and an impactful story. Best game on PS4 for sure.
3675) Very beautiful game!!,The story is incredible and full of nice feelings and moments. Of course there is a lot of violence and gore. Very cool and very "now" game.
3676) A masterpiece when it comes to story, graphics and combat. Already on my 2nd run. Definitely my favorite game!
3677) The game is incredibly good. I have a lot of hours of joy and have huge respect for ND’s team. I know why some people don’t like it but I think that the plot was great and was done in a brave way. The gameplay, the characters, the story - all of it was 10/10.
3678) the game is an absolute masterpiece one of the best games ever made im sorry but people are crazy for saying this game is bad because of the story it’s actually amazing in every way the story is dark and a bit depressing to be honest but still one of the best experiences ever.
3679) Amazing game! I don't understand the hate. I enjoyed the story and felt that it was just as good if not better... If you didn't feel guilty gunning down the fireflies in TLOU1, you might be a psychopath... Joel did a terrible thing
3680) I cannot believe how low the user score is. I find this game amazing. I breaks new ground on every front. The graphics, music, story, emotional depth, how expressive the characters are and how subtle the facial expressions convey emotions. I have never seen this in a game before. It is just unique. Sure, it will take a bit of emotional maturity to fully appreciate it as the game does not wrap things up in a satisfying happy ending way. It leaves things somewhat unfinished and open ended. Just like life. This may not appeal to the average teenager but grown ups should enjoy this. It is so evident that a lot of talent, care and love has been poured in this game. I loved the first one, and raising the bar was such a tall order but they did it. Just amazing!
3681) Absolutely sublime game.  The graphics, setting are right in line with ND's stellar trajectory for ever improving graphical fidelity, year after year.  And the gameplay fleshes out TLOU 1st game's foundation, though in some respects, doesn't pushing into groundbreaking territory with the sequel.  Still, if you enjoyed the stealth, crafting, combat mechanics and gunplay of the first...there should be plenty to love in TLOU 2.  The story, honestly, is harsh....yes....but very fair....and very brave, if you ask me.  It is a natural extension of what was started in the 1st game, if one can simply detach from unreasonable expectations garnered in everyone's love for Ellie and Joel's character.  At the end of TLOU, Joel's decision plays out as a heart-wrenching one of a loving father figure.  But only in as such as we get the narrowest of keyhole views into that decision.  TLOU 2 allow the full consequences of that decision to bloom.  And as heartfelt/heart-wrenching as that decision was....it was also a devastating decision....a selfish tribal-driven decision (understandable, tho!  Saying this as a father of 2 girls myself) which breeds and weaves the ugliness of tribalism into the brutal story of TLOU2.  Looking back from as detached a perspective as I can muster, the story is true to the heart of TLOU.  Druckmann and co must have known he/they would be harshly criticized for their decision to tell that story.  Kudos to you, good sir.  Brave choice!
3682) The best game ever!! ❤️ Please don't follow haters ratings, because they just want to ruin the game!
3683) The number of zeroes and bad reviews on this game is frankly disgusting to me, because it's exceptional, a true work of art. I'm not even going to talk about graphics/gameplay/acting/musics, because what the point? Superb. No, I'll concentrate on the story.,HOW, how can someone say that it ruines the first game? Because Joel is dead?! Because he suffered the consequences of his actions? I'm not saying that saving Ellie at the end of part I was wrong, but if I were Abby and someone had killed my father that way, I would have been **** pissed as well. So, obviously, you can't criticize Abby for doing the same thing Joel did (the murder in itself) - or at least, not by the end of the game.,I don't think I've ever hated someone as much as Abby in the first part... just to have all of the table turned on me. To anyone saying they would have killed her in the end/Ellie shouldn't have shown mercy... what the hell is wrong with you? You kind of frighten me as a person. The game's moral is ALL ABOUT the dangers of revenge, and how it's never the answer. The final confrontation between the two protagonists is exemplary: they are both weak, pale, shadows of the warriors they used to be. They're two corpses trying to kill each other. In the end, Ellie looses everything, and suffers the consequences of her actions because she was given a choice: between staying with the love of her life, and the baby they had together, raising a family and trying to work out her trauma like a normal human being, she set off to get revenge, even when she knew what had happened the first time (Jesse's death).,Also, don't think, not even for a second, that Ellie was doing what she was doing for Joel. Abby was- for her father; Ellie was mad because she was robbed of the opportunity to forgive Joel. Ellie doesn't realize that she's mad at herself for not having forgiven him earlier, when deep down she wanted to (you can see that she loves him still). Both girls were robbed of the life they could have had with their father figures, and both of them destroy each other's life - the people in it - while blinded by this rage.,At first, we hate Abby, but as the game goes on, we see how good of a character she is, the evolution she undergoes, how much she's changed. If you can't sympathize with that, what is wrong with you? You're making the same mistake as Ellie: watching the story only from your point of view (as people who love Joel).,As for the violence- it's present, it's unsettling and it made me nauseous at times. But I do think it's an accurate representation of what a world like that is like. It should repel people, not attract them (and that's why seeing people send death threats to Abby's ACTRESS scares me... people out there are crazy if they can't distinguish a character from the actress that plays her; in a world like TLOU's you would be crazy fanatics).,Finally, I'm not even taking into account how progressive this game is: representation of all races, strong female characters, two gay characters and even a trans one! (oh, and if this is one of or the main reason why you didn't like the game, **** you).,In conclusion, well done naughty dog, for how you brought to life a compelling story, full of ethical dilemmas and for how well you played with our emotions (basically, thanks for hurting me).,,I would like to see a part III, more focused on Ellie and her redemption arc (trying to win back Dina and their son), and perhaps even something about a possible cure? Or other immune people? Ellie can't be the only one!
3684) The last of us part two is more then just a game! My expectations were very high and after i finish the game i was suprised for the best!
3685) Most if not all of these negative results are nonsense from some dumb internet hype. It is a great game. Enjoying it just as much as the first one!
3686) Truly excellent game with a well crafted story.  Don't believe the thousands of reviews from the day it was released.  The story takes 25-30 hours to complete, not possible for them to have played and finished the story that quickly.
3687) Jogo perfeito. Com personagens importantes e relevantes para a história, com muita representatividade para um jogo tão importante e com um peso em seu nome para a indústria. Parabéns Naughty Dog, mais um trabalho bem feito!,_________________________________________,Perfect match. With important and relevant characters for the story, with a lot of representation for such an important game and with a weight in its name for the industry. Congratulations Naughty Dog, another job well done!
3688) TLOU2 is not different from part 1 in a good way. The story got me emotionally hooked and I really cared about the characters. Gameplay is also almost identical. If you liked it before, you won’t be disappointed.,,All the hate this game received is 100% not deserved. If seeing a moderately muscular woman or a lesbian or a non-cisgender person hurts your fragile masculinity this much, you need to calm down an re-evaluate your life. The story revolves around revenge, anger and being able to let go the past. It is very far from LGBT fanservice as some haters trying to paint it.
3689) This games flaws have been wildly over exaggerated by immature man children, if someone tells you that the story is "incoherent" or "full of plot holes" there's a good chance that they either weren't paying attention because they didn't like the direction of the story or they never actually played the game.,That being said the story is very unconventional, I'm not going to spoil anything but I will say that I did play the game with one spoiler in mind, which was the antagonists reason for doing a particularly controversial thing at the beginning of the game and it helped me empathize with her.,The gameplay is excellent, enemy ai feels intelligent every gun has great impact, stealth sections are a bit boring but that's just me All round a great game
3690) A masterpiece just like the first one. The story this time is more compex and it might leave whoever is palying frustrated at times, but at the end it's all worth it.
3691) An exceptional sequel. Simple plot but beautifully told, not understood by many since it distances itself from the usual videogame narrative canons. Incredible, deep, varied and fun gameplay. Graphically is something stratospheric. A masterpiece of this generation.
3692) The best game experience i ever had in my entire life, it was very intense and it made me think a lot about love, loneliness, sadness, rage and revenge.
3693) This game is absolutely stunning in every aspect. Visually incredible, attention to detail is incredible, level design has improved drastically since TLOU1. I know lots of people complain about the story, but in my opinion I don’t agree with almost all of the complaints. Joel had to die in this game. People complaining about this overlook the events of the first game. It cannot be simplified down to one line, “revenge bad”. The game takes us through a story of complex characters changing as we go, and to see them grow and evolve as well as the subtle details really make the story come to life. It is a truly human story and I loved all of it, BECAUSE of us having to play as the villain. The game did something bold, and it is very complex. In my opinion, that’s what makes the game great.
3694) Its (by far) the most realistic, beautiful, enjoyable  and envolving game ever made! Fun as hell! All the haters need therapy...
3695) To whoever reads these user ratings. Ignore the noise. Most haven’t even completed the game or they are merely pissed about the characters and the plot not going their way.,This story is absolutely one for the books and you need to play this game. It is an emotional rollercoaster that will take some huge twists and turns. It is a great sequel and a great Naughty Dog game.
3696) A Roller Coaster of emotions from the first second till the moment the credits rolls up. Thank you, Naughty Dog for the best game ever made.
3697) Even if you don’t agree with the story of the game you have to give it to the devs for taking such a huge risk in writing it. I love games that take risks and this sequel did that for sure.
3698) The game was spectacular in all aspects, it has been waiting for years and it has paid off and the company delivered an excellent show. Regarding the story, it touched me a lot, I don't see holes, the game is not for anyone, but for someone who has the maturity to develop and understand the story. The plot is simple, ambition will not always add to something, and it can sometimes be disappointing; magnificent.
3699) A game that makes you think and leave you with strong emotions. Great story with bold decisions that reflects reality with important teachings, above all that life doesn't always go like we planned and we need to learn to live with the consequences of our actions. Well  done naughty dog!
3700) Masterpiece. A challenging and thought provoking game. The emotions felt throughout will be remembered for a long time.
3701) I cannot understand negative reviews at all. This is a mature adult game I was waiting for all my life. The believable brutal universe, amazing combat, and atmosphere. Incredibly well-written characters on the level of Breaking Bad arch development. Simply amazing game 11/10. All those wining 15 y/o kids cannot see anything that is not binary and black/white. The game has layers of substance and leaves with lots to digest. This is what games should be - this is a work of art.
3702) The game is gorgeous and the gameplay is awesome as well, the story is great but people just focus only in their beliefs and ignore a story of compassion and justice for tragic experiences
3703) Best game ever!!! Fantastic story, extraordanary way to telling 10/10.,The graphic, dialog, everything is in a New level!
3704) Translation in English:,About graphics: This game stands next to Red Dead Redemption 2 in terms of graphics, physics and emotional feelings. The Last Of Us Part 2 is one of the darkest games.,,History and gameplay itself: This game deserves more excellent and positive ratings as for me. Yes, I understand that the loss of Joel at the very beginning of the game is like a slap in the face and such a low death, you don’t want to die on anyone on the planet or even in the entire world galaxy. girls "they flock and I don’t care about LGBT people, and gamers are divided into two types which, they’re cheating this game due to the fact that the main protagonist (hero) dies at the beginning of the game. And the second more serious case of a hat in the direction of the game is history the gameplay itself. As for me, Joel’s time has come, no matter how dark and sad it sounds.,In general, this game as a mirror for Ellie and Abby was killed by Ellie, you can say the guardian of a teacher who has seen a lot in his life, and whose father Abby killed Joel to save the girl. Ellie had a pregnant girlfriend Mel and Ellie had Dina who was also pregnant, I mean that this game positions a difficult, difficult drink-wrenching life of two girls, and after all, most gamers do not understand the most important plot and it saddens me very much.,,About Abby: In fact, most players and fans were upset by a character named Abby; for me, this character is a game MPC (record) with a heavy history like that of Ellie.,,About the actress voiced by Abby: The popular actress who voiced Abby receives so many negative and inappropriate comments on TWITTER because the actress has nothing to do with her and she voices the characters. I consider these people stupid and idiots who only know how to write angry, swearing comments, and even with threats of killing relatives and herself. I wish the actress prosperity and good luck.,,Bottom line: I really liked the game. Once again, I repeat that many do not understand the plot itself, and who has already played and who hasn’t come to it may be due to two reasons: they did not understand the plot (or did not like it) and Joel’s death.
3705) I can't remember the last game that I have given a solid 10, and I certainly can't remember the last game that pulled me like this and held me tight for 30 some hours. It's a risky story, it really is. It should not work, but somehow it managed to be the best overall game I have ever played. Ellie's actions don't make sense until the very last moments of the game, when it all comes together and you find out what really was driving her. It may be easy to overlook if you're not paying attention, and I can see how it would be easy to hate if you're coming into the game off of the review bomb from the trolls early on. Ellies decisions are stupid at times, but in the world Naughty Dog has developed, she's a human. Her mistakes are human mistakes, and those imperfect actions are what breathe life into the story.,The story by the way, was a masterpiece. I never knew what would happen next. From jumping perspective from character to character, and hopping back and forth through time, they do everything they can to tell the story the best they can. It's very unconventional, and I can understand how it would feel off-putting to some people, but it felt like a progression to the way we tell stories in video games. It always felt like I was just a person stumbling through a world that was alive. They put a lot effort into making the story come alive by the way, so much that the people in factions you face off against have names, and if you kill one in the middle of a conversation, they will yell out that persons name in a panicked way. There's even a block of the story where you get to explore an entire city and search for secrets all over. They really make the world felt lived in.,I loved this game and if you want to see what it is all about, I recommend you give it a play. Oh and by the way, we learned Ellie was into girls in the Left Behind DLC in 2014. Get over it.
3706) I really don't understand the bad reviews, this game shook me to the core. It conveys the brutal life in post apocalyptic USA in a painful but honest way. The gameplay is great, the graphics are magnificent, the characters are deep, the story feels real. This might hands down even be better than the first game.,,The developers made some real gutsy moves with the story and characters which probably alienated some people. Make no mistake, the story gets real dark and depressing, but to me this just adds to the feel of the harsh reality in world the game is set. To me it seems the "haters" have missed the message in the story all together. Who you care about is relative. You have to make yourself emotionally available enough to understand why the characters do what they do. Not everything is black and white, good or bad, not everyone is a hero or a villain, not every death is grand and dramatic, not every person is remembered, not every person matters. It's all relative. This game deals with how we as humans act in extreme situations and how it polarizes society. There are no winners in a revenge game.
3707) More of a solid 9 really but to counter all those incredible sad BS reviews. I know, I know, opinions but no way in hell is this game a zero. Graphics are great as expected but so is the story. An emotional rollercoaster with some nice details to help elevate the characters to new highs. Gameplay is decent and all I can say about it more, is that I couldn't wait to find out whats next and was blown away by it all near the end. More a 9 instead of a 10 because at selective times it felt dragged out. The timed pressing of buttons and endless searching of cabinets and whatnot can get a bit stale as well. But all and all these are minor points. Nitpicking. I can only salute ND for what they achieved.
3708) The game is really good, and everthyng in it like the gameplay, the details, cinematics, transition between cinematics and gameplay, landscapes, levels design, the "bosses",  and also the story are really good. Tecnically the game pushes to the limits the maximal potencial of the ps4, it is a delightfull.,,But, Be aware that the story is a sad one (that is no the same to a "bad story"), just reflects (or try to reflects) the path trought vengance that characters are going.,,Maybe thats the problem, we are so used to stories in which "the good" guys always win, or where the "evil forces" always lose.
3709) I just finished the game and it was one hell of an emotional rollercoaster. At some points I wasn't sure, if I could keep playing.,In the end it was one of the best games I've ever played.,Sad to see the horrible reactions the developers have to deal with.,I hope there will come a time where everyone can be as they want to be without having to deal with hate and aggression.
3710) Loved the game. Yeah.. it has some issues, but still it is unique project you should experience yourself, before any conclusions. I’ll tell you for sure, we won’t see anything like this in a long time... (((
3711) It is very good,  very beautiful, very interesting, VERY VERY VERY GOOD GAME. It is my favorite game after the first chapter
3712) A unique lifetime experience in interactive entertainment combined with the best visuals ever seen
3713) The best game ever.,If you don't finish it you'll never understand.,Thank you Naughty Dog, thank you Neil Druckmann.
3714) Exceptional. Potential GOTY.,,I never post reviews on metacritic but it seems important to me to counterbalance the rage of transphobics, misogynists and other racists.,Haters gonna hate.
3715) Experience abslutely worthy of your time. It would be a shame to skip on it based on the hate it Is getting from some vocal people. It will bring you feelings you maybe do not like, but that is the reason you should play. Think about characters and try to put yourselve in tjeir shoes. What would you do?Absolute highlit of game writimg And Mařatice. Never seen before im AAA Area.
3716) This is honestly one of the most fascinating games I have played in my life. In some ways naughty dog has done too good of a job. They have managed to elicit such gut wrenching and crushing loss, pain and anger during the game that it has driven half the gaming community to distraction, reacting against the game itself! This game is unlike anything else I have played, it is horrific and beautiful and thought provoking. The story structure is innovative, the environments are so detailed and breath taking, the gameplay is enjoyable and complex. Once the dust settles it will go down in history as a true masterpiece.
3717) Best Story Game I ever played it deserves a 10/10 Horror Atmosphere is awesome dark and dirty the look is great, level design is absolutely beautiful. The characters looks amazing.
3718) This game is amazing. If you liked the gameplay of the first TLOU, you will like this one's. It's the same, but a little better. As for the story... If you liked the first one because it was nuanced, and the characters were deeply human, there's a good chance you'll like this one as well. It's bleak, and it's exhausting, and to a point, kind of traumatizing. But everyone in it is so human, it feels real.
3719) This is one of the best game I've ever played Incredible story, amazing gameplay.
3720) The last of us 2 is a masterpiece that was not meant for everybody,the treats its characters,with reality and no **** are stunning just Like physics gameplay mechanics stealth and etc,but the best part about this game is the acting that makes the characters and the story so beliavible.MASTERPIECE.
3721) After finishing this game, it has left me full of feelings like no other game has left me before and is a master piece of technology on it
3722) The Last Of Us Part II doesn’t just tell you that violence is bad, but it shows you the ramifications of it by dealing with the emotional toll as well as the consequences on not just the main character involved, but their loved ones too. At the start of the game, Joel is brutally killed by Abby and we go with Ellie on a mission to avenge him by killing everybody involved. We see it all from Ellie’s POV, hardheartedly seeing Abby as the villain as she just killed the character that we know and love as we have an emotional connection to him after the first game. His death is supposed to make you feel anger. It’s not like you’re supposed to be joyed by it. His death scene left me feeling empty and disgusted, wanting revenge alongside Ellie. However, as the game goes on, we start to see the story from Abby’s POV. We learn that the doctor that you, the player, had to murder at the end of The Last of Us is actually the father of Abby. This is brilliant. Now we see one of the main themes of the story, consequences, and I was immediately on board. Joel is not a good person, at all. He murdered hundreds of Fireflies and took away the possible cure for humanity for his own personal reasons. This is incredibly selfish, even going to the lengths of lying to Ellie about the events as he knows that it isn’t what she would want. Technically, Joel is the villain. Joel had been through so much, so you may think it’s justified. But the point is, Joel isn’t the only person in the world of The Last of Us. Everybody he murders aren’t just mindless NPCs, they are people. People with their own problems who have gone through their own share of pain and loss, people with their own loved ones. Such as the doctor, who had Abby, whom he loved very much and Abby the same. So, understandably, she would feel incredible anger and feel the need for revenge, just the same as Ellie and the player after Joel’s death. There is now a cycle of revenge. Ellie goes on to kill Abby’s friends, and so Abby tries to kill Ellie and her friends. It’s not until Lev talks Abby out of it that the cycle seems to have been “broken”. Abby and Lev put it behind them, however, Ellie cannot and nor can Tommy, which means that the cycle is not broken. Ellie continues her hunt for revenge, thinking it’s still what she needs. Just as she’s about to murder Abby, she sees it’s completely useless. Here I’m going to talk about another core theme of the story: loss. As Ellie is about to kill Abby, she realises that Joel is gone. Completely gone, and killing Abby is not going to change that. She now has Lev, and if Ellie was to kill Abby, Lev would only lose Abby, leaving him in the same situation Ellie was in at the start of the game, which in turn means Ellie is becoming what she set out to kill. It’s no use. Revenge only causes more pain and loss. This cycle is so vicious and nobody wins, and Abby realised this once she found Lev, and found that revenge is a futile thing that does not achieve anything, especially not bringing back her dead friends. She managed to break the cycle herself, and in turn, she found a life worth living, alive with Lev. However, Ellie could not manage this, choosing to still seek revenge. Because of this, she faces the consequences. She loses all of her loved ones. She loses Dina, she loses Jesse and she loses her little boy, JJ. Tommy is the same too. Tommy couldn’t break the cycle, and he loses his wife, Maria. And guess what, Joel is still gone. All of that loss, yet Joel is still dead. It’s all been for nothing. Ellie is now completely alone, which is what she said she was scared of in the first game, all because of revenge. The way forward is not anger, rage or revenge, but acceptance and love.,,You may think this treatment of Joel and Ellie is “disrespectful”, but I disagree. In the first game, you do a lot of bad things as these characters. Yeah, you go through a lot of pain, but so has everybody else, yet they still face the unfavourable consequences. It only makes sense that Joel and Ellie would too. In my opinion, this only helps to build the world of The Last of Us and show that just because Joel and Ellie are the main characters, they aren’t invincible, and the world doesn’t revolve around them. They just happen to be two people who live in the world amongst so many others, which for me, makes it so much more realistic. This is emphasised in the incredible detail in the gameplay of each enemy having names, with other enemies interacting with each other as you stalk them. It makes them feel so much more real and only increased my enjoyability. From a story like this, which is so dark and gritty, I don’t expect a happy ending. You’re not supposed to like Ellie by the end of this story, as she serves as the example of why the cycle of revenge is horrible. You’re not supposed to feel satisfied by it, you’re supposed to feel empty, hurt and sad. That is literally the point.
3723) Easily the best game of the the year, incredible story telling and gameplay definitely 10/10
3724) The game is amazing. Yeah sometimes there are stupid things but generally it's beautiful!,Gameplay, Graphics, Story are amazing!
3725) this game is amazing. In this game we saw the power of ps4 with great graphics, great physics and a very good story.,If you dont like im sorry, you dont know what you say,We saw in the story the 2 sides of this 2 girls and we can feel the emotions of the characters.,Just thank you naughty dog for this amazing game.,,ps: this game made me cry a lot of times
3726) Anyone who gave this game a 0 clearly didn't play it.,This game is a masterpiece, anyone who didn't appreciate the story is an idiot IMO.,,If you are the type of person who loves movies like:,- Pulp Fiction,- Taxi Driver,- Requiem For A Dream,- Joker,,...You shouldn't miss out on this incredible experience. It's unfortunate so many people are so closed minded they can't get into this game. Everything comes together beautifully, it's tragic, it's amazing.,,Real Score: 8.5/10,,Put it to 10 to balance out all the 0's
3727) I must be honest here. I have never been THAT emotional in a game before. There are certain points in the game where it just hits you really hard and you see things you expected the least. I can understand why people would give the game a low rating though - when we see that Abby kills Joel we start hating her and that's all we think about (which is exactly what's supposed to happen).. But the deeper we go into the game, the more we understand Abby's side of the situation. Joel not only took the cure from the whole world, but also killed Abby's father. Still, I don't think Joel deserves to die (at least not like he did), because after all, he saved Ellie and I understand that. His daughter is dead, and Ellie reminds him of her a lot, and it's pretty obvious why he would want to save her. Both Ellie and Abby search for vengeance, and they both hurt until they get what they want. Ellie was having nightmares ever since Joel was killed and she is mad and can't let go of it until she kills Abby. She searches for her, and on the way kills basically all of her friends. For that reason, Abby also wants to kill Ellie. Understandable. So basically what I'm saying is that neither of them are right, nor they are wrong. The game isn't all black and white and you can't really choose a side. You have to see the whole picture to understand the situation. I am really sad though about the fact that Ellie just left Dina and their child, who are literally her family, and just went after her revenge again. Thus, I demand a DLC where Ellie comes to Dina and everything goes back to normal.,The game kicks you hard, lets you relax, and then kicks you harder. It is a must play but remember to look from different perspectives or else you'll basically hate the second part of the game.
3728) This game is amazing love everything about it 100% would recommend !!!! ❤️❤️❤️
3729) Beautiful,Crazy wtf Love it,Beautiful,Yes yes yes,So gooooooooooooooooooooooooood
3730) Only an idiot can rate this game under 9/10. Its a masterpiece whatever the IDIOTS say. Story, gameplay, visuals all that components are 10/10. Deep emotional sense story showing what we are and we can become. Just dont read the lower reviews because they are useless and they dont make sense !
3731) This game was a phenomenal follow-up to its outstanding predecessor. Don’t believe all the hate and controversy surrounding it. To receive the full effect of the story you have to play through the entire thing for yourself. The people who hate Abby and are complaining about playing as her have either not played the game enough or at all and/or are too tunnel-visioned to accept it. The game shows you Abby’s motivations for killing Joel, and even though I’m not happy he’s dead, I totally understand it. Abby wanted to take revenge on her father’s killer just as Ellie is doing. Abby and Ellie actually have more in common than meets the eye. They both have extremely similar motives. In contrast with most people, I actually grew to like Abby just as much as Ellie. They show that she’s not just a brute-like  monster that killed one of the most beloved video game characters of all time. They give her depth and characterize and in doing so, bring to life a new beloved character. They also show how she grows as person and sets aside the ruthless killer she once was. People are complaining because they can’t and won’t understand the complex story Naughty Dog is trying to tell. They are showing that Joel and Ellie are villains from one perspective, while they are seen as heroes from another. The same goes for Abby. No one is totally innocent, and no one is entirely a villain. Things are not merely black and white like you see in many games. I honestly thought the story was much more complex and interesting than the first one. You are introduced to many more perspectives and motivations and characters who are as complex as they are interesting. Of course the gameplay and graphics were amazing as well (though that shouldn’t have to be said about a Naughty Dog game). Nothing huge has changed gameplay-wise from the first game, they’ve changed it up enough to feel fresh like the addition of the jump button. Overall, this is a game that has to be played from start to finish to get the full effect. Do NOT listen to hate from the internet. This game MUST be played start to finish period. If you’re willing to give it a chance then you’ll see Naughty Dog has yet again created something very special in The Last of Us Part II.
3732) Good game Good graphics and the story is not good . LGBT idk what im say . the overall is good game
3733) One of the best games of this generation with a bold story, great gameplay mechanics and amazing visuals and audio. Can't wait to replay it on the PS5!
3734) The best game ever created. Image, Sound, Acting, Story, everything is 10/10. A complete submersive experience, that plays with your emotions. It’s a master piece, not a regular dumb kid’s game. Congrats Naughty Dog.
3735) It's not the best game of the year, but of all time! All characters have a story. Best scenaries have seen in a game.
3736) What an amazing game they improve everything for its predecessor, the story made me feel a mixture of unique feelings
3737) Strong, emotional, controversial. Not every game can pull that kind of emotional rollercoaster off.
3738) I suppose its not a spoiler anymore, but yeah Joel dies. And after a while you get to play as his killer for 10 hours or so.,It was a shock. When Joel got killed I was left staring at my screen, controller on the floor. Halfway through the game I get to play as Abby(the killer). I didn't like the idea. I didn't wanna play as her.,10 hours later, seeing the world of the game through her eyes, I was surprised that not only she grew on me, but I got to root for her! That's a story we'll made for me. I get it that's not for everyone. I get that some fans will hate it. But yes, you are allowed to not like the story of the game! And trust me I am a fan of the first one, and the  Left Behind DLC. I  loved Joel. I loved his relationship with Ellie. It did brought tears to my eyes. During the first game, during Joel's murder and during the flashbacks. I don't know if I can forgive Abby. But I'm willing to try.,Story wise aside(which I personally loved), the gameplay is awesome. It's an improvement of the first game. I don't get all the negative reviews calling it **** gameplay wise, because its like TLOU but better. And no matter howuch I love the first one, I'm not sure that another road trip with Ellie and Joel is what the series needed. That story was told. That story made us cry and get attached to characters. And now it s time for a new story. That(personally made me cry again and get attached to new characters), might not be for anyone I get that but oh well. That's my 2p.For those who hate the game, fair play. For those who loved it, I get you! For those who haven't played it, give it a chance and judge by yourself!
3739) Masterpiece. It's an amazing experience. I don't know why so much people hate it. It's a wonderful work of art.
3740) Masterpiece I never thought I would have been that moved about a video game. I know creators were cruel with gamers, but that makes it momentous
3741) A true masterpiece. Story was a little up and down. But Gameplay 10,Graphics 10, Sound effects 10, Soundtrack 10 , Story 8. Essentially a movie you can play and what direction of gaming needs to be. Truly it maybe the Last of Us as in non micro transaction uninspired trash to generate profits. I do feel for the fans a little it has some gut punches and plot twists that might make people mad. But it truly was a delight to play.  Appreciate it for what it is. A game that the Devs cared about making look at the whole and not just the singular parts.
3742) This is my first review By far this is the best ps4 game exclusive I ever played. i Finally beat the game and i know i am a late reviewer because i have to experience the full game of it.  I waited 7 years for this and let me tell you, it was worth the wait.,,Pro:,The story is amazing. You feel the emotion and the heartbreak of the game, like an oscar winning movie.,Gameplay is the best.,graphic OMG beautiful.,Sound amazing.,music of course amazing,characters of the game is great. Ellie and the newcomer Abby.,,Con:,Nothing.,,I understand that this game is not like because of the story and  what happen to Joel. And we have to play the enemy Which is Abby. The point is Yes Im sure what Abby did to Joel, My one of my favorite Character I got Hurt and Sad Of what she did. Made me Cry. but playing Abby story and her gameplay of it is amazing. and I understand why she did that because of revenge. you need to see her side of the story of abby, like said story is amazing thru out the game. and one more thing her weapons in the game I would say its better then Eille. But Eille is better in stealth. DONT Judge Or Make any Negative Things about the game. Because you did not complete this game Plan and Simple.,,Naughty Dog did an amazing Job. If you want survival action game, well this is the game for you  and if you play the 1st last of us, this last of us part 2 is twice as good.,,Again this game is worth the wait and its the Best game to close out the exclusive for PS4 Period.
3743) The Last of Us Part 2 is not just an ordinary game, but a game with a story full of emotions. This game shows us there are two sides of the coin and in every action always will have a consequence. Congratulations Naughty Dog!
3744) In almost every movie and games, the main character always survives. The story can even go in such a way that the you thought the main character is really going to die. But you know that won't happen, there will be a plot twist to save the character. And it happens indeed.,,In this game, the main character is really killed. I like it, because finally the main character can die. It's boring to always see the main character pull a plot twist to survive. I like to see something new and bold, which this Naughty Dog did.,,And it isn't about just blind revenge of Ellie against Abby. You get to see from Abby's perspective and understand why she kills Joel. You won't hate Abby so much after understanding things from her point of view.,,Ask yourself. If you hate Abby because she kills off Joel, who is like the godfather of Ellie, but don't hate Joel for killing off Abby's father. Aren't you a hypocrite?
3745) This game is incredible.. Even I will admit this wasnt the direction I was expecting or was prepared for going into the game, the first game has and always will have a special place in my heart because ive always considered it my favorite game of all time due to reasons that are intangible.. The relationship between joel and Ellie was the defining part of that experience, and of course Joel's arc.. As hard as it might be the ramifications from the first game were obvious! it may not be the sequel "we" wanted but its the sequel that both the series and the fans, if they truly were that, deserved..  Never has an experience game, movie, or book so effortlessly and effectively immersed you and grounded you in a way that truly makes you feel like you are taking an active part in actions that are both in and out of your control, and how that makes you feel as the story transpires is so unique. I really dont want to say much because as a fan I stayed away from ALL spoilers before experiencing it for myself, and if you can do that you will truly be blown away by the experience and adventure this game takes you on. The writing and performances are flawless, genuinely flawless and characters are incredibly and perfectly flawed.. It makes you think about characters, choices and their ramifications long after its over in a way that can only be experienced first hand.. If I had to pick one theme for this game both in and out, its perspective, which is powerful considering the hate this game has been getting for reasons I can't explain.. I'm not saying its perfect, and if you dont like it after properly playing and experiencing it for yourself, I can see how it wont be for everyone, it surely cant be..but to the people hating cuz of gender, plot they haven't experienced and homophobia, **** you! if you had a braincell in your peanut you'd come up with your own story and characters if you felt that strongly about it, piss stains.Thank you Neil and team.
3746) From playing games since 1989 to now, I am truly blown away in how far we have come in story telling and video games as a medium. The fact that so many negative reviews on this site were from players who didn't first play the game and then see how the story makes you feel - and were angry over a a certain character's demise - writing it off as 'bad writing' is a shame in itself that they may have completely missed the point in what makes a character good or bad and why you as a player sympathise with certain characters in the story. What if I told you that all the characters were baddies in this world? When I finished the game a few days ago, I have been thinking about everything that led up to that point for the past few days too and there is so much to ponder over especially as when you look back at all the characters and you see how divided the current world is, it is easy to see that if there was an outbreak of this magnitude (ahem), everything would indeed fall to ruin and people would become blinded by their own intentions. I think anyone who's written a negative review here will look back at their review after they've actually completed the game and reflect on how wrong they were. I challenge anyone here who has written a negative review to play the game to the end, then see whether or not you think Joel and Ellie are good people or maybe they lived long enough to become the baddies.
3747) I was worried about story after so many negative user reviews, but there is no reason at all. I did cry again, I did experience all emotions again.,,This game is not easy to play, and is kinda dark and grim, but it does cause strong emotions for the player. I want more masterpieces like this in the gaming world.,,Also, gameplay improved the lot. This is hands down best stealth game I ever played, and the infected, especially those sneaky little bastards - stalkers.,,I like non-binary stealth where there is no perfect cover, and I can always be seen.,,Please play this game before judging it based on reviews.
3748) A brutal masterpiece that will leave you heartbroken, but wanting more.,The critics are correct and the users are wrong. The bad ratings is a symptom of the 2020. Everybody is easely offended and cancel culture.
3749) One of the greatest games I have ever played. The story is Machiavellian in nature, a story to rival Homer's Odyssey, or Shakespeare's King Lear. This game will be remembered and revered as a cultural turning point in history. Those who have not played this masterpiece do not despair! For the very reasonable price of 60 U.S dollars you too can experience the cultural zeitgeist that is forming around the heart of this games own citadel of dreams. Dreams that the gaming Omnissiah himself Godd Howard (blessed be thy graphix card) would be proud of. Gamers, rejoice, for our prayers have been answered, in this game we have something that hasn't touched our cynical Doritos be-speckled hearts in quite some time, what we have here, in essence, is Nirvana, in video game form. As our Holy Lord Gaben Newwell (hallowed be thy processing core) forewarned eons ago, there would come a game, a game so monumental it would shake the very foundations of Gamers faith, but low and behold that holiest of tests has been passed, Witcher be praised! 10/10 would recommend.
3750) Very good game! Thrilling, breathtaking graphics and great characters. A milestone in gaming. And for all the homophobic people here: Welcome to the year 2020. Deal with it!
3751) Doesn’t deserve anywhere near to the amount of hate that this game is receiving, I think the developers took a huge risk in the game but it played a massive role in character development for the story line and even if some people didn’t like the story they can’t argue that the graphics and gameplay are phenomenal, I personally loved the story and thought it showed the two sides of the story amazingly
3752) Thats the best game of the year, i feel very happy whit this Game. Masterpiece
3753) The last of us 2 personally seems to me one of the best games out there on ps4.,The gameplay is impressive, as are the graphics, soundtrack, and history. 10/10
3754) challenged my expectations not only as a player, but as a lover of good stories. bravo
3755) It’s a very good game I like it a lot it’s very good,It’s a very good game I like it a lot it’s very good,It’s a very good game I like it a lot it’s very good
3756) I personally loved it. There was some issues with it such as not going in depth with the Rattlers, Owen's motives, the sex scene, but overall I thought it was good. I'm being generous with my review because I feel the game is getting unnecessary hate from "Joel fanboys" who are just triggered that the game killed off their favorite character and how "unjust" his death was.,,Granted some people may genuinely hate the game and that's ok, but I think the story was good. It made you see things from the villain's perspective and had people relating to Abby and see where she was coming from and if you can make a sympathetic villain like Abby that's good story telling. There was also little key things throughout the story that painted a bigger picture and deeper story. An example was the bracelet Dina made Ellie. It spurs questions to the end of the story. Depending on how you look at it, either Dina left Ellie or she's back in Jackson waiting for her while she says bye to Joel.,,The moral was also on par with the last game. The last game the theme of family was consistent throughout the game and in this one the theme of vengeance was also heavily emphasized.,,As for the complaints that the promos were misleading because it lead you to believe that Joel wasn't dead. I'm not sure if anyone remembers the promos for the first game, but it lead me to believe that I would be playing Ellie instead of Joel the entire time. So this isn't the first time that we've been mislead before.,,I just hate seeing a well developed game get bashed because the users disagree with the story and now it's gotten to the point of threatening the voice actors. This fandom is becoming as toxic as Star Wars and all because everyone is just upset because they're obsessed with Joel.
3757) The problem with all the negative reviews is that they wanted a fan service for a sequel. Naught Dog did something entirely different and they couldn't accept it. Also, the story showed that no one is innocent and that there are no heroes in this violent world. It's a realization that makes you feel uneasy. Even if you don't like this, you cannot rate a perfect game with 0/10. Only for the actors'performances, the graphics, the attention to detail, the game deserves more...
3758) Finally finished it.  It gets better.  :D had some big time scares and the weapons are awesome.  Will plat this one.  Excited to play it on ps5.  :)  unity peace and love please :)  We need be less divided
3759) Its a **** interactive masterpiece with an amazing story, I cried more than never.
3760) A perfect game , not for prehistoric minds and poor masculinity’s  !! A perfect master piece , perfect music , perfect history , a phenomenal ending !!
3761) This game is beyond my expectation in every aspect. Naughty Dog is trying to tell a meaningful and deep story which can probably only be told effectively through interactive video game. However, ND has clearly overestimated the gaming community. Time will tell.
3762) this game is very good, the story told in different perspectives, showing that the "villain" also has its reasons.  The setting is fantastic and the scenery even better.
3763) Well, I mean, it’s a goddam masterpiece isn’t it? An incredible achievement from all involved and a game I‘ll never forget. I had high hopes and the game exceeded them, and then some. Also, considerably more game than I was anticipating with surprises coming thick and fast.
3764) Incredibly well written with twists and turns at every corner. Original in everyway whilst staying true to part one.
3765) Without a doubt the best game ever created. An absolute work of art. Somehow finds a way to surpass the original.
3766) What an incredible game! Start to finish it truly takes you on an emotional journey. Dont listen to those with negative things to say regarding the game. It's obvious what there intent is behind the hate. Must play, must be open minded, must finish! So excited to see how this story moves into potentially part 3...
3767) It’s a masterpiece all around. Music, character development, writing, performance, gameplay, visuals. These review bombers are just unsubstantiated mostly.
3768) Thank you naughty dog for this awesome game! Its a really next lvl play,Gameplay, story, characters, AMAZING!
3769) Thank You Naughty Dog for this game one of the best experience in my gaming life  11/10.
3770) By far, one of the best games I’ve ever played. Its graphics, the gameplay, the characters and of course its story are magnificent. It’s not perfect, but there isn’t any game of this genre as perfect as this.
3771) Truly a masterpiece, the final act gave me emotions I've never felt in a video game before. All the negative reviews are individuals acting like childeren, and not letting the developers share their story. Gameplay and combat are satisfying aspects of the game that never got old; all animations are fluid and have impact. Naughty Dog has continued to reinvent what a game is.Its a game you have to experience for yourself at least once. It a heartbreaking story that makes you reflect on how harsh reality can be.
3772) Perfect game. Perfect story. Perfect graphycs. Perfect gameplay. 10/10 game of the year
3773) The game is an absolute masterpiece!,,About the bad user score: just so you know, five hours after the release of the 25-hour game, two thousand reviews with zeros were published. Do your math.
3774) A consistent continuation of the first game. Engaging plot, justified vengeance, appeals to our emotions and is a formidable immersive experience, not to mention the incredible gameplay and mix of moments of exploration and engaging action. I loved every second of that game.
3775) Naughty Dog unapologetically sets the bar for single-player storytelling. Through game system mechanics, AI combatant movement, and detailed care to every major character; they have created a narrative that is utterly immersive and flushed out. The game had to be polarizing- similar to the first game, but it was a journey to understanding character development and storylines unlike any I’ve seen. The death of Joel hits like an absolute punch to the gut and sets the stage for what true character immersion needs to be. Taking over Abby’s story was a challenge, but one that absolutely triumphs- making the player wrestle with who the “Last of Us” truly are. I was a wreck after finishing my first play through and could not imagine the amount of hard work, diligence, and determination Neal Druckmann and the rest of the Naughty Dog team went through to pull this off. Thank you for your work, and I can’t wait for the next emotional rollercoaster that can hit this caliber of creative storytelling.
3776) This game was a masterpiece and i, think this game is even better than the first game, for me, at least. I got a lot of emotions throughout the story and it was just amazing, i enjoyed it.
3777) The game is fantastic, both graphics and story wise.  Getting to play as Abby was a shock, but as you learn her story, you can see why she kills Joel, and eventually why she doesn’t kill Ellie.,To see the depravity of the TLOA2 world is an incredible experience.  Balanced with the love many of the characters have for each other, you can really fear for Ellie’s life, and Abby’s.
3778) Seriously clever game, story was very impactful and of course game play was great.
3779) This game is a technical masterpiece, maybe it does have certain aspects of the story that are not that reasonable, but overall I think it is a pretty good story. I think the gamers which are saying the story is such a disappointment are saying that because Naughty Dog forgot entirely to do some fan service, but instead of directly saying that and accepting it, their fixation goes directly to the little details and discrepancies that any story has.
3780) BEST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED, AND I LOVED THE FIRST ONE,This game capitalises on everything that was good about number one and adds so much on top. Makes you feel emotions for characters that you initially hate. People hating on this game are generally homophobic, transphobic or just can’t deal with deaths on main characters in video games (which to me are very necessary deaths as it adds to the realism; your favourite people irl aren’t just going to survive just because you like them). It is terrifying, beautiful, the gameplay is amazing, the AI is ridiculously clever. I loved Abby and Lev’s relationship, the ending was perfect and left me very satisfied but also hoping for more stories in this universe. Naughty dog really have outdone themselves with this game and I truly hope they ignore what most backwards people are saying about it.
3781) This game asked me more tough questions about my own implicit bias regarding characters that I care for then any form of media in my 30 years on earth. This is not meant to be a fun romp, it's meant to humanize people who've done horrible things to survive the end of the world. Some people just aren't equipped to deal with not getting what they want. But I say bravo Naughty Dog, Neil, Troy, Laura and Ashley,Can't wait for part 3
3782) Masterpiece , game of the year , amazing great game , don't listen to stupid people , play it and enjoy
3783) This game is absolutely perfect, from the beginning to the ending.,When Joel died I felt something I've never felt, or hardly ever, while playing a videogame: I was crying, my legs were shaking and my voice was broken, I felt angry, sad and I just couldn't believe that Joel was dead, in fact the first thing I've sad after that was:"It's not true, Joel's not dead, he's in very bad shape and all that stuff but he'll be fine in some time. They didn't kill Joel".,Then I saw the tombstone with his name on it and I cried even more, then I rried to cheer me up saying that he would be with Sarah now, but that hurted a lot and it wasn't helpful.,So I kept playing the game with one desire: avenge Joel's death and kill Abby.,Then I arrived at the point when you start to play as Abby, at the beginning I was really pissed off, but during that 8/9 hours while playing as Abby I realised why she has done that and the fact that she kinda regret what she has done because, in the end, she had lost everything, even her closest friend and I started to emphatize with her, in fact when Abby and Ellie fought for the first time I started to think that I'd preferred the Abby's death 'cause in the end during the first game I really loved both Joel and Ellie, so I was still in love, if I can say so, with her.,Then the fight ended and neither of them died and I was kinda happy but then the epilogue arrived and they fought for the second time and, for the second time in a row, no one has won but because Ellie understand, thanks to an old memory of Joel, that, if she had killed Abby, she would have lost her humanity, and that was memory was painful but awesome at the same time.,I might have not explained it well but it felt like that was the perfect endng because, thanks to the last memory of Joel and Ellie, you understand that Ellie, at the beginning at least, wanted to kill Abby to avenge Joel but then you realise that the only person she was hating and blaming was herself 'cause she was unable to forgive Joel for what he has done at the Fireflies' Saint Mary's Hospital (the end of The Last of Us) before his own death and that was so powerful that I cried again, it was **** perfect.,Also I wanted to spend a few word about the techniical assets: the graphic's excellent, the gameplay is a simply evolution of the first game gameplay with some new features and the all options that Naught Dog has put into the game to help the people who have some disabilities or wanna play the game with some help are very useful, so well done Naughty Dog.,Also what has happened with the review bombing it's very sad because if you look at this title objectively, this game deserves, at least, 7 even if you don't like the story 'cause the gameplay, the animations, the all accessibility options and the graphics are all **** amazing, and this game is the top of of the generation (and please don't say things like:"Cyberpunk 2077 will look amazing, and even better than TLOUPART2" because it's not true, and you know it. It'll look amazing and we all know that, but it's an free-roaming open world RPG so it can't have as many details as The Last of Us Part II has,  it's impossible for this generationat least, we'll see what's gonna happen with the Next Gen in the next few months).
3784) Good work! A incredible and magnificent game!! The history is a lot of emotions and the characters are the best of this game. An incredible evolution!
3785) I have, figuratively, taken to pen on the furores surrounding the controversial subject matters within an unpopular storyline in ‘Last of Us 2’.  This will be my first review, such as is my apathetic nature but I am compelled to because I recognise the detrimental impact the fallout will have on this game and potentially curtails the advent of evolutionary gaming that ‘Last of Us 2’ has paved.,,It was with consternation that some reviews across all boards were scathing and the social media awash with negative commentaries over the sequel to ‘Last of Us’ leading me to try and provide an alternative viewpoint.  After a 34 hours play though  to the completion of game, I can testify that it is an emotionally tough game that intellectually challenges you of the folly these paths our ‘heroines’, Ellie and Abby have embarked on.  I use the term ‘heroines’ very loosely, because they are most certainly not that.  What they are as human beings; flawed and brutalised by the reality of the world they exist in and striving to find a sense of purpose to their life and to hide their regrets behind a thin gossamer of revenge.  You will be frustrated with Ellie as she progresses with single minded determination and her unwillingness to look beyond her failure to reconcile with Joel.  You will dislike Abby immensely from the onset as she is institutionalised emotionally with a distinct lack of empathy, trapped in a strict lifestyle regimen of her making.,,The game is obviously not about Joel and Ellie, but about the consequences and ramifications of their actions and how they contributed to this game.  It should go without saying that it can be hard to reconcile these emotive contexts but I believe that this is the whole point of the game.  You are forced to carry out unpleasant actions in order to progress, violence is prevalent everywhere but they are not stylised nor sanitised.  They are brutal and graphic leaving  very little in the way of cathartic release you would get from mowing down a hoard of zombies with a .50 cal machine gun in a mainstream game.  Perhaps this is an indicative of the pointless nature of vengeance where violence begets violence and how people can lose their ‘humanity’ as they dehumanise each other in the name of causes they adhere to.  This is where the writing of the game starts to shine,  I am not a writer nor am I a critic analysing and breaking down the storyline in minutiae.  Owing to my deafness, I excel at body language and I have got to say this, that while the body language and the nuances of expressions and characteristics of the characters in the game have a long way to go, they are the best I’ve seen and I was able to develop connections from playing Ellie and Abby on a deeper level than I have with any other characters in other games.  I believe the objective of this game is to demonstrate just how easy it is to lose yourself through the cyclical acts of violence based on the beliefs and values of what fraction you are in, as a part of a faction against another.  This mirrors uncomfortably to present day political climate.  What I really appreciated towards the climax of this game is how I empathised with Abby at the beach while I despaired of Ellie when she doggedly insisted on persisting on the destructive course.,,It does not matter if writing of the storyline is somehow incomplete or insufficient, what matters is that a connection is made to the said characters and there they can be fleshed out in your mind with gaps filled in to make sense of the complex relationships.  At the closing scene, Ellie leaves the farmhouse a strong and resilient woman and the life she is leaving in the farmhouse is just simply a chapter that is closed.  Joel still lives on in her.,,Now to address the elephant in the room, Ellie’s sexuality or her sexual preferences… I simply don’t care.  As for Lev, Abby will do him right, gender is as meaningless to me as race or creed and sexual orientation.  This is why I am concerned about ramifications of outcry over ‘Last of Us 2’.  I can see that it is an incredibly difficult and complex game in terms of incorporating controversial agendas, introducing moral dilemmas and highlighting humanitarian issues to game playing (and re-playability).  I really would like to see Naughty Dog push the boundary further in terms of game evolution to be a valid platform for full intellectual and emotive interactivity and see ‘Last of Us 2’ despite it’s shortcomings lauded for daring to force gamers to question their actions.
3786) I'm a huge story driven single player kind of gamer. The first one was one of my favorite games and this one did not disappoint. Graphics, gameplay, atmosphere, voice acting, all done phenomenally!
3787) Best game ever.,Nice Story, best Grafics on ps4, smooth Gameplay, a technical and visual masterpiece off All time.
3788) An epic, enthralling and gut wrenching emotional rollercoaster that sets a new bar for storytelling, animation, performance capture and sound design. Top notch
3789) Just to say the first game is one of my all time favorites. I love Joel, Ellie, the world, the story, everything!!,,Currently on my second play-through (for all the collectables), but I'm noticing just how in depth the mini conversations are between characters while you explore the world. It's incredible the detail of the story. Dina telling Ellie about her plans to fix up a farm and this is just both heart warning and breaking when you know what's to come. (I wish I had more patrol missions with Dina and Ellie),,I'll be honest when I completed the game, I was in a weird state and I needed a day or so to contemplate what just happened. I played the island section till the end in one go. A LOT happens. A lot of stuff that as a player you don't want your character to do.,,At first I wished I stopped at the Farm, but then Ellie would've been tormented forever and that was worse than what she eventually had to do.,,Playing as Abby was a bit of a surprise and I wasn't too thrilled with playing another three days as her, but I definitely softened up to her. (Which is crazy to say, because of what she did, but how can you blame her.) Her and Lev are a fun duo.,,Overall I give this game a 10, because I have never experienced anything like it before and it didn't disappoint.
3790) The game was awesome, like next level awesome, and everybody who think otherwise are **** with no taste whatsoever
3791) Outstanding and Breathtaking !!!,By far one of the best games of all time.,magnificent game play with amazing details. Awesome story.,Don't be a kid and just nagging about story. Just enjoy!,This game is best game of the year !!!
3792) The game was a masterpiece!!! The story line was amazing! You go into the game thinking one thing and the game teaches you such a strong lesson.
3793) This game is a beautiful masterpiece. The details, the gameplay, is unlike anything I seen. You can tell  alot of love was put into this game and for that it has my appreciation.
3794) this game is amazing,thanks nauthy dog,thanks sony,its master piece,ist best seller
3795) One of the best games of all, don't mind the critics of those who didn't play or just here because it's boomer and xbox fanboy, the game is really good and sends a beautiful message, but only you can draw that conclusion, play and enjoy
3796) GOTY is not enough! This game has to win everything. Please, give the Oscar, Golden Globe, BAFTA, Gold Lions, give all the awards to this masterpiece.,,Best narrative,Best soundtrack,Best action game,Best Snowball War,Best FIFA,Best baby,Best Cyberpunk,Best everything
3797) This game is actually great! IDK why people are getting butthurt, **** about the story and all.,buncha cry-babys!
3798) This game is simply a work of art! Graphics, story plot, character development, all very well done.
3799) Absolute masterpiece, seems like there’s a lot of haters here. Just want to say that if you played the game and you reviewed it, your opinion is respectable, if not.. then you’re part of the toxic gamer community, congrats. Now my opinion is.. this game is an absolute masterpiece, I understand what the developers were trying to say, I really liked the story, I loved all the roller coaster of emotions, my time crying with the game, feeling sad, happy, laughing, hating..,I consider this game a top 5 of mine.. I won’t forget my time and feelings with this game. The complex perception that this game gave me..,Now I got another game into my personal list
3800) This game doesn't deserve such a law rating. A very nice gameplay and (whatever you say) an interesting story. The only thing I did not like is the "second end". I think the game should be ended after Abby heard the fireflies message. It could be such an open ending. But it's still everything okay with this story.
3801) This show a complex level of story writing at first with the deaths of our beloved characters the atmosphere filled with rages and in the end it make us feel nothing but emptiness in our hearts.
3802) imagine being so brain dead that you send death threats to the creators and actors of the game just because you didnt like it
3803) One of the best games I've ever player. A Masterpiece!,Could not understand all the hate
3804) I'd give a 9/10 to the gameplay,because I really enjoyed it in the last of us part 1 at the time and maybe gameplay in part 2 is repetitive to me because I played the first one soo much.,So yeah, I have nice memories about the first part and I'd give it a 10/10. Story is awesome and graphics, too. Everything is just perfect, I consider it this generation's best game. Overall, it's a 10/10
3805) It is the most beautiful game, i ever played. I got goosebumps every time in the plot moments. I really recomend this game and appresiate naughty dog for their titanic work.
3806) Amazing continuation of the Last Of Us Story showing that there are always consequences to your actions.
3807) I'll start with graphics and gameplay: Graphics are very good on the PS4 and probably the best that is possible. The puddles alone just look good. The gameplay builds on the first part with some new elements such as crawling, new weapons and items and better AI of the opponents. The killing itself is also presented very realistically, sometimes even too realistically.,But let's get to the story. I can understand the bad reviews in a way, but when viewed objectively, the story is just rousing and a masterpiece.,The story is well written and you can empathize with the characters.,All in all a very good game which is not necessarily "fun" but is so rousing that you have to play it.
3808) This game is a masterpiece, the attention to detail and story telling astonishing.  Amazing graphics, sound, and combat system.  It’s a game for mature audiences.
3809) The best game that I ever played.Everyone should play that.It’s a new story about Elli
3810) Best Game i have ever played,With a very astonishing Story,Tnx neil druckman
3811) Simply magnificent, the best game I have ever played in my entire life. A must have for ps4 owners and a reason to buy it for those who don't. Gameplay significantly improved compared to the first chapter, with some of the best animations ever seen in a video game. Simply perfect on a technical level. Considering the years of the PS4 hardware, this game is a real miracle! The narrative is the most mature I've ever seen, perhaps for this reason many didn't like it. However, avoid all the negative reviews and give it a chance if you haven't done it already. Such a masterpiece deserves to be experienced first of all, beyond what will be the final judgment.
3812) The game is the the logical continuation of the first part. It doesn't show you the story, it makes you feel it. They take the decision of Joel in part 1 and develop consequences that are painfully realistic in this world.,They show Joel as what he is, a flawed, traumatized human that made a controversial decision and is full of love, which makes you love him even more than after part 1.,It's a highly emotional game, you'll feel annoyed, angry, sad and disgusted and if you care for Ellie and Joel, you will feel so bad and soooo good.,You could give a 9/10 because it's long, like really long and it makes you feel it, but they want you to feel like this because the characters feel like it, too. The Story need you to feel like this.,It's truly amazing, I never played a game like this before. .... I wrote an essay about it, not because I had to, because I needed to deal with my emotions and thoughts! I highly recommend everyone to play and experience it .
3813) Absolutely loving this game. Gave it a ten to counter all the hate it's been receiving. This game has really showed me how much hate their still is in the world. Both in the game itself and the hate it has received. People need to open their minds. Amazing game a must play for anyone.
3814) The most ambitious and bold game ever, amazing representation.  There is nothing like this, Ellie is incredible.
3815) A masterpiece that really shows how far video games have come in this generation!
3816) This review will NOT contain any spoilers. After all, if you’re reading the reviews there’s a good chance you’re considering buying the game. To start off, I am a huge fan of the first game. And this sequel to me feels like a great follow up to it. Im not sure why so many people hate on it. This game is bold, exiting, full of surprises and a masterpiece. The combat and mechanics are an upgrade from the first game. You can tell how much time and effort was put into this game. Typically, I don’t replay games after I beat them, but for this one I could totally see myself replaying it more than once. I highly recommend this game. Thanks for reading
3817) This is not a feel good game. It takes multiple risks story telling wise which pay off as a whole. It works perfectly as a continuation of the first game while capitalising on the potential of various plot points in a very imaginative way. While no character remains out of the “line of fire” placed on a moral pedestal, they are also given a fair chance into a more nuanced and rounded narrative. What made the first game a much loved classic is subverted to create a bold yet respectful statement. The gameplay is also updated and even though it remains faithful to the concept of a preset outcome provides the player with different ways to achieve said result. I would never believe that Abby would end up being such a favorite character when I first started playing the game. And at the same time I was more than happy to explore the less than ideal sides of Ellie’s character. Will definitely play it again so that apart of the story I can explore the resource management aspect of the game which is an important part of the gameplay even though admittedly overshadowed by the story part and the need to see what happens next
3818) It's another masterpiece from Naughty Dog! It's a fantastic story with a fantastic gameplay mechanics and graphics. It is a game that moves your emotions.
3819) I like both games and the story. the grafics are great, we have a game that contais like 0 bugs or needet 10x patches before the game could be played!. I cant understand why people dislike/give bad vote to the the story/ devs or the people who made this masterpiece. i understand why people maybe don like it but there is no reason to give like 0  of 10.  the story is very good and the telling behind the story is greater than great but it seems the most people do not understand the message about this game.
3820) Absolutely love this game ! The story and the mechanics are top notch, one of my favorite games of all time gets a well done part 2!
3821) Masterpiece. I disagree with all the “this story stinks” i was engages the entire time. I’m not gonna post spoilers but i loved playing as Abby. It shows the”bad guys” do what they do for a reason. And in her eyes Joel and Ellie were the “bag guys” it’s a cool angel that humanizes the people your fighting and makes u see why the are how they are. I highly highly recommend it.
3822) I was simply looking forward to this game in a surreal way, and I understand the fans' anger over Joel's premature death, and I know how it hurt to see the scene of his death. And play with Abby at first it is also extremely painful and sad. But only because of this can we realize that the game is actually a plot of consequences, not just revenge. We realized that everthing that Abby do, and Ellie do,  in a unstoppable search to compensate for death is in vain, and it was useless, both lost everything, their friends, their family, just to feel the pleasure of "getting revenge".The way that the game show us that slowly, is awesome and unbelievable, I can say easily that's one of the best games of the generation, and I fell a lot of emotions do from beginning to end. The game demonstrates that in an apocalyptic world, there is no happiness, and good things are minimal. Joel's death was painful, but like so many others, sudden and frightening, in a world of those, there is no heroic death, good or just, everything happens on the basis of survival, nobody is hero, and nobody are bad. (Sorry for the mistakes, I don't speak english fluently)
3823) Epic journey.,,Do yourselves a favor, play this game if you haven't already. And ignore nitpicking haters.
3824) Graphics,Damn, can’t believe this game looks this good on a base PS4. I was seriously considering either waiting for a PS5 or getting a Pro. Naughty Dog are wizards and I cannot wait to see what they do with next gen, because the world they built is gorgeous. Sound,The soundtrack is amazing and I love what they did with the mechanic for playing the guitar. Also, they did an excellent job with the surround sound implementation that really pulls you into being in this world. This is the kind of game you want to enjoy with a nice sound setup for sure. Gameplay,I wasn’t a big fan of the first games controls/gameplay, but they nailed this one. It’s hard to say what exactly they changed as I don’t exactly remember the intricacies of the first, but I know this one felt fluid and I always felt in control and could do what I wanted at any time. Game plays great and the “I’m on the hunt” gameplay was pretty sick as I crawled through the grass to grab an unexpected enemy or set up traps to take enemies down. Also, Abby feels different than controlling Ellie as her skills are geared more towards offense. It really broke up things and was a nice change of pace. Especially when fighting a particular boss that gave me Resident Evil vibes (felt this several times while playing this game).  Story,Wow, while I could see it coming, Abby taking out Joel was a true gut punch. While it stung, I was impressed that they would do that and it really made it feel like anything could happen which rippled through the rest of the game. I wasn’t crazy at first about playing as Abby as I didn’t care about the character at all, but they actually were able to make me care as I learned more about her and what Joel robbed from her that made her who she was. Which is a complete bad ass. However, when I had to take on Ellie, it was crazy how that scene made me appreciate how much of a bad ass Ellie really was. Taking on the main character, I mean who does that?!? It was brilliant as far as It concerned. The story is what made me a huge fan of the first game and this game did not disappoint. I was at the edge of my seat and could not believe how in depth they went with some of these characters that made you cringe when they might or did get taken out. I thought the writers were brave and told an amazing (if not brutally violent) story of tragedy and revenge. Final Thoughts,Game was amazing. The is the pinnacle of the survival horror genre. My only gripes are very minor. A) I played the game on hard which limits loot. I didn’t like taking out an enemy that say had a bow and arrow, without the game dropping me at least some ammo. I get why they limited it, but come on, if I can see what kind of weapon you have, you should at least drop 1 piece of ammo for that weapon. B) I only ran into 2 minor glitches in the game. That’s it. Those are my only complaints. The game was fantastic. I know I’m enjoying a game when I stay up crazy late and lose all track of time (I was up to 5 am one night not realizing it). Naughty Dog has outdone themselves and crafted an amazing game that deserves the critical acclaim they received from journalists. 10/10.
3825) Graphic: 10,Gameplay: 9,Story: 10,,The game is a huge roller coaster of revenge/hatred where you need to sympathize with the 'main villain'. Give it a try, go through the roller coaster and have an opinion for yourself =)
3826) The graphics are great but the art design, environments and overall attention to detail is what really makes the game shine. When it comes to dialogue and acting Naughty Dog remains unequaled.,,I bought the game on release and am currently halfway through my second play-through and still havnt encountered a single bug or glitch. Also, there are NO in-game loading screens. A breath of fresh air compared to most releases we have seen this late in the PS4s lifecycle.,,The game-play is great with intense action that sometimes feels almost scripted, partly due to superb ai. You can tell that a lot of effort has gone into "quality of life" adjustments making for a really smooth and satisfying game-play experience.,,I recommend turning the difficulty settings up one step from what you are used to. Or atleast to turn up the difficulty slider for Player, Allies and Resources. For me Hard represented what I expect Normal to be.,,Overall its hands down one of the best games I have ever played.,,Most of my criticism comes down to nitpicking or personal preferance but here goes:,- I dont like playable flashbacks or playing different characters, it brings me out if the story. I would have prefered if some of these parts of the game was replaced with cut scenes.,- I would have preferred more focus on building an adventure compared to telling a complex story.
3827) I loved Part 1 and Part 2 i fell in love again. I am sad that i have to wait again for the next masterpiece.,Good work Naughty dog. You did a very good job!,Dont hear that stupid haters!
3828) Nice combat, technically amazing and a bold story that will make you think a lot. A must play!
3829) A beautiful and sad Masterpiece!! I wouldn't never play something like that, with so much feelings for the beginning to the end! Thanks naughty dog for this incredible experience!
3830) Best Game I have ever played. Like nothing you have ever experienced in a video game before
3831) Another masterpiece from naughty dog.  Not a happy game to journey through, but the roller coaster of emotions, brilliant moments of beautiful melancholy, and cathartic ending put the stamp as one of the best video game experiences for mature gamers that are able to appreciate something different then the cliche and conventional storytelling we are used to from other fiction series.  This game was bold in direction and I applaud naughty dog for taking the risk instead of fan servicing and milking this series as a cash cow.
3832) An unforgettable experience. It will challenge you. It will make you feel uncomfortable... but this story will linger and stick with you long after you finish.
3833) there are no words to describe this phenomenal work .......................
3834) The Last Of Us Part II is a truly incredible game. The visuals are breathtakingly beautiful and grim. The story is emotionally effecting and fascinating. The characters are fully realized and they are the driving force behind the story and the best parts of the game.  Truly a huge storytelling and technical leap for video games. I do find the premise of the game to be most affecting for those who have played and grown attached to characters in the first The Last Us. Don't believe the hate. Give it a play and decide for yourself.
3835) Simply amazing game that did not deserve all the negativity. Instead of talking bad about the game or harassing actors and developers, everyone should take it for what it is - the story about hatred and revenge and the price you have to pay for it.,While the theme and main narative are completely different from The Last of Us part 1, I really appreaciate this game and all the feelings it gave to me, which will linger for long time.
3836) Best game i've ever played in my life. Everything is great,the story,the gameplay,the graphics,the sound design,the soundtrack, it's a masterpiece. 10/10.
3837) This game was amazing! I’ve never experienced a piece of media quite like this. It’s been two weeks since I completed it and I still can’t stop thinking about it. I’m sad for what happened to it on this website and many others. It’s also sad to see the developers and actors/actresses have been attacked in all of this. It seems some people were on a mission to hate this game and anyone involved. Based on the world/art direction and game mechanics alone it’s a 7/10 at least. When you add in the story I can’t go anywhere but 10. If you pay attention and take this game for what it is, a continuation of the first game, it’s simply incredible. All I can say is give this game a shot with an open mind and I don’t think you’ll be disappointed.
3838) The details and love put into this game is incredible. All the little moments stick with you after finishing the game and I found myself not wanting to leave the world that made me feel so tense and uncomfortable at times. I am on my second play through and I am liking it even more. Also, the improvements to game play, graphics, accessibility, customization, locations, and animations had me in awe. This game throws you through so many emotions that I it takes video games to a higher level of media. I love these types of games and this my "type" at its highest standards.
3839) Dont believe in bad reviews, because the people are stupid and rated bad only for hate or cant aceept than Ellie is the principal character of this history!! and dondt tolerate than she likes the girls!!,Is an amazing game and played till the end!!
3840) Absolutely perfect... Nothing to say, just play It! Better than the first, my new best game! I'm crying...
3841) chic gameplay, cinematography, a real tragedy that makes you worry about the characters, I cried....who puts the game from 0 to 4 or did not play it at all basing their opinions on the trailers or those who just ran through it skipping the screensavers without delving into the plot.
3842) It is the best game of human kind. It drvies you crazy what all these characters are...it doesnt matter. Buy the game and be amazed by this cinematic singeplayer game.
3843) This game is great, an amazing sequel to tlou and just all out great. Man **** the negativity the only reason why people rate this game bad is 1) they are just hopping on the ban waggin of negativity. 2) not finished the game. 3) bots. 4) the leaks. PS the leaks mean nothing. 5) expecting the game to have the same storyline, same linear, same everything. Hey hate to break it to ya, no game can be exactly the same. Wanna bet that if we got the same linear story people wouldn’t like it. Tlou 2 is open, not just in exploration, but in themes, gay, trans and many other things violence, revenge those things. I’ve finished the game and let me tell you all you haters this game is art. Meaning 50% chance of people liking it and the other 50% not liking it. But all this hate is pure stupidness, fake haters only looking for clout or ban waggin. It’s so dumb HATERS GO PLAY THE GAME YOURSELVES AND DON’T COME BACK UNTIL YOU GOT YOUR REAL!! OPINION.
3844) After finishing the game I have to say that ND has been overcome in this work.,There will be people who hate or love history. But I have to say that this story is very well narrated and has all the meaning in the world.,it's about revenge. That here nobody is more good than the other. In a world where survival prevails, neither ellie nor joel nor abby are good or bad people.,Joel killed a lot of people in the first game and it is normal for other people to take justice. But let's remember that both Ellie and Joel killed people in the past and that does not make them better people than fireflies, wolves or seraphites.,The fireflies wanted a cure for humanity and Joel out of selfishness preferred to save Ellie by killing people who only wanted a cure. Joel saved Ellie without asking her opinion.,,The fights are the best Naughty Dog has produced, light years from the first game. The animations are shocking, literally. The best in the industry.,And the most impressive thing is how ND has achieved this level of detail and spectacularity in a simple PS4.
3845) That is a masterpiece, ı see a lot of people dıdnt like the game, the story probably, joel's death made us all cry but for a revenge story it was necesary, thr best thing about first game was the shock started with Sarah's death so yeah ı loved thefirst game which was written by Neil Druckmann and ı also love part 2 again which was written by Neil Druckmann thanks everyone for this game everyone who had effort in it, was AWESOME
3846) My new "Best game ever". Last time its been Witcher 3.,I'm crying after final movie.
3847) A great game that definitely deserves high praise and that I definitely liked less than the first part. I didn't like Abby, I wanted her dead the whole game, and I don't agree with the final decision of the writers. But that doesn't make the game any worse. It touched my heart more than once and caused me to experience a storm of various emotions. Thank you to the developers for this work, and even more thank you for the first part.
3848) This game is a masterpiece, never before has a video game had me so torn between different emotions.,I’m sad that Joel was killed off and the way he was, but he was no hero himself and the narrative of the story is how violence breeds more violence. The fights between Ellie and Abby had me killed a couple of times just because of my hesitation to not wanting to harm either of them. I for one love the fact a game can do this to me.,The gameplay is much the same with several slight improvements but I like the game mechanics anyway as they suit a survival horror.,It seems you will either love or hate this game due to the nature of Joel’s death and playing as Abby but you will just have to try it for yourself.,In the words of Gandhi “An eye for an eye will make the world blind”. I think the story plays along this narrative beautifully and you must play the game to the end to appreciate.,Can’t wait for Part III
3849) The Last of Us Part Two review:,I have to say, I’ve played through the entire storyline and as of this review I plan to do a second play through of the game.,The game takes place a couple of years after The Last of Us 1 and moves forward with Ellie and Abby through their quest of bloody revenge and tears. Starting off with graphics I have to say this game is by far one of the best, prettiest, jaw dropping games I’ve ever played! And I’m not kidding- from the nature to the snow to the beaches to abandoned cities, you’ll appreciate every detail that you see.,Overall I have to say that I very much loved the graphics of this game and if you plan on picking it up, man oh man you should definitely pick up a headset too.,The audio is so damn good in this game! The sounds of the infected really got my heart racing. Hearing a zombie in a dark room or having someone set off a bomb sounds oh so good! The audio is such a masterpiece! The soundtrack? Man does it immerse you and have you feeling like you’re in the scene. From being chased down by your enemies; locked in a room with the zombies; or just enjoying a nice hike through the nature trails, the audio is so beautiful and vibrant and I just have to say thank you Naughty Dog for that. But I can’t say that for combat, especially in certain areas. The game seems to be a stealth type but sometimes forces you to do hand-to-hand andor full on face-to-face combat, which I love. It is sometimes odd and did throw me off and frustrate me a bit.  Gun play is a little odd and can sometimes be annoying just like hand to hand combat. I found this to especially be true with the bow. There were times I would make a perfect head shot but end up only alerting the enemy. Very annoying. I feel like the aiming mechanic was a little rusty and could have been worked on a little bit longer. Playing hide and go seek with your enemies is sometimes frustrating as well, especially if you’re not quick on your toes (I can be the slow type, myself). Hand to hand combat sounds pretty rough in a post apocalyptic game and you get that here. Hand to hand combat or using a blunt or sharp object to kill your enemies is quite awesome; seeing you literally beat the person down seems so realistic. Not to sound like a psycho or anything! I just appreciate what they did there and I feel like they worked on that a lot more than the gun play. Overall, the stuff in the game is quite the same as the first game.,Quick little sidenote: Character development here is a thing and I appreciate that. I’ve seen that some people find issue with it, but I give them an A for effort!,The Last of Us Part Two is a pretty lengthy game that offers two sides of the story instead of one. Not a lot of games do that these days. You’ll go on a long adventure with long cut scenes and some annoying decisions but overall this game shows you how dark and cruel this world can be, but at the same time, beautiful. The Last of Us Part Two is a masterpiece by far and I have to say that I will be playing this game again and again through the years to come. I will not forget about it. I highly recommend people pick this up and play it and if you’re skeptical on it wait for a deal to hit the game. But for me, it’s a game that is worth a full $65. I cannot wait for any DLC that might hit in the future. I just want to say to Naughty Dog that I very much appreciate everything that you’ve done and to all of the teams that worked on this game I appreciate everything that you’ve done as well. You have truly made a masterpiece and it will always stay close to my heart. Thank you so much Naughty Dog and keep up the good work. Much love!!!
3850) Easy 10/10,,I love how the developers don’t stick to the tried & tested formulas most other games do when it comes to the story. Perhaps all these negative reviews are from people who just don’t get that some people are gay? I can’t honestly see any other reason why so many would give it such terrible reviews.,,Gameplay 10/10,Graphics 10/10,Story 10/10,Voice acting 10/10,,Take your time with this game, I saw most of the negative reviews were out within hours of the release. Either hateful Xbox fans or people who decided to put their race horse blinkers on to finish it as fast as possible.,,If you loved or even liked ‘The Last of Us” or “Left behind” then without doubt, you will really, really enjoy this game.,,(Headphones make this game SO much better, I notice a huge difference!)
3851) wow, what a journey. amazing game, amazing story, amazing graphics, amazing sound and amazing gameplay.,Recommend anyone to play and ignore the hate, judge by yourselves. amazing!
3852) 10/10/10/,Best game of the year.,Best game of the generation.,Best PS4 game.
3853) - Storytelling 10/10,- Gameplay 10/10,- Level Design 10/10,- Technical compartment 10/10,- Art 10/10,- Character Design 10/10,- Animations 10/10,- Sound 10/10,- Accessibility 11/10,- Difficulty balance 10/10,The masterpiece of the decade, without any rivals.,I loved Abby as much as Ellie.,I enjoyed every single minute of this game and I can't believe such perfection could exist.,Thank you Naughty Dog.
3854) Finally a amazing game with a great story, unfortunately some were waiting for a  revenge-story ala Steaven Seagal
3855) As someone who actually played the game from start to finish and letting it settle before rating it, I am satisfied giving it 10/10 now. It's a damn masterpiece just like the first. Even better gameplay and even more of an emotional roller coaster. Avoiding this game is just doing yourself a disservice, imo.
3856) Excellent game in all aspects!! I don't care about the hate, the game is amazing.
3857) This Game puts gaming to the next level. In my opinion a absolut must play in this generation!
3858) Ignore the hate if u can this game is Depressing yes. But for a reason Joel's death can only be made sense if u PLAY it and understand the story this game takes huge risks to show that even hero's of our storys face consequences and are villains in someone else's which imo not many games show this game is very different from the first game but it IS a worthy sequel and a MASTERPIECE.
3859) I experienced the full range of emotions playing this masterpiece. Thanks a lot Naughty Dog for the post-apocalyptic atmosphere and special attention to detail. 10/10
3860) To enjoy the game u have to be open minded. I am and it is now my favourite game.
3861) This game is perfection. Visually stunning and amazing fluid controls and combat. The story is great and a natural continuation of the first. If you want to play a stunning example of the pinnacle of technology and story telling in video games play this. Never felt so attached to the characters in a video game since the first one. Cant wait to play through again.! Great job naughty dog
3862) I finished this game months ago and wrote a review but unfortunately it was too long for Meta Critic, so I felt like I didn't want to post a review because so many things need to be said and my review need to be shortened so much that it missed important points about the game....so I had some time to think about it and re-wrote it.,The Last Of Us Part 2 reflects the news before launch, where one half of the studio wanted to make TLOU 2 and the other wanted to wanted to leave the franchise and make something new. This game essentially meets those two ideas together, it gives a true ending to the TLOU 1 whilst starting a new story in same world and having a few familiar faces along the journey to comfort you.         If you're feeling hate, anger and pain then Neil has done his job. Neil Druckmann said that this game was about hate all those years back at Paris game week and he has delivered on that, the idea of this story is to make you feel grief but then conflicted by Abbie's story at the same time. I need to play this game one more time to platinum it but I can't do it emotionally because the pain I feel seeing Joel, not just dying but in the happy moments, challenging moments and his worst moments portrayed via flashbacks, is just too hard and this is how powerful the storyline in the TLOU part 2 is.,Its unfortunate that Neil Druckmann had to endure Antisemitic tweets after doing his job so well and this NOT acceptable. Same goes for Laura Bailey receiving death threats. Such a shame the horrible people out there and controversy around the game has tainted my memory around this beautiful game.         All in all the Last Of Us 2 is incredible, its a true modern day masterpiece bought to us in a new form of media. Its up there with other media masterpieces like Shaw Shank Redemption, Green Mile, Titanic,Forest Gump, Harry Potter books or The Lord Of The Rings books,  in that they are all experiences you need to experience before you die. 100% Recommend
3863) Story:,It shows us the dark side of humanity. The world does not revolve around Ellie and Joel this time. There are points in the story where I just thought is ridiculous, like Ellie coming back for Abby late in the game. When Tommy said before he's had enough, now, Tommy is keen on getting revenge even going as far as to guilt-tripping Ellie. I also thought that Scar/Seraphites was forced into the game.,,Gameplay:,Awesome. Looting can become tedious, but if you don't loot, you won't have anything at all. I played it on Hard difficulty.
3864) This game has managed to tell the story it wants to tell us.And it's Amazing!! The game showed Ellie not as a hero, but as a real person.,In addition, the game has taught us to empathize and add something to our humanity.
3865) This game is incrible it's not your cliche game I don't know why the reviews is so low, but this game deserve a 10. Hoping this game wins the game of the year award
3866) A great game not deserving of the hate that it gets. The whole way through I was enthralled in this world and the gameplay was intuitive and engaging. I kept getting amazed and wanted to continue seeing where this game led. This revenge tale I feel is important as Ellie has taken on a lot of Joel’s traits and with how the game proceeds you see that she’s slowly becoming more comfortable with it, even going so far as to torture. At the same time though we see Ellie get affected by these actions and due to Ellie allowing herself to get consumed by this need for vengeance, she lost everything. I won’t lie I was sad with the ending but I felt it was a bold and important for the story. Ellie wasn’t a good person throughout the game, just as Joel wasn’t and I’m happy we got to finally play this full game.
3867) A great sequel and one of the best people games in history. Beautiful, ambiguous characters and a deep, multi-layered plot. The story of how hatred changes people and how much it costs to pay for their decisions. The best games are bound to evoke emotions, this game evokes the strongest emotions. And the finale! The final game is incredible. History will hate those you used to love and love those you hated. In the finale you will find peace, albeit through devastation and catharsis. Lovely, ADULT game.
3868) A true masterpiece. The hype was real. The hate reviews are not true. After i completed the game i had self doubt that why did i enjoy the game while everyone else was hating it. Game is great and has a perfect ending according to me.
3869) It’s the story you didn’t want to hear but that needed to be told. The bitter ending is the only way the last of us could end, this has never been a feel good story so telling a fairy tale make believe ending would’ve been a disservice to this beautiful franchise.
3870) this is definitively a GOTY nominee for sure, the last of us part 2 is a true masterpiece with a very good story focusing on revenge instead of continuing to focus on love like part 1 did for the most part.,instead of the love and the growing friendship between Joel and Ellie like they did in part 1, Part 2 focuses more on the revenge path Ellie sets herself on after Abby Kills Joel. and we follow her on her journey as she goes down that path and slowly loses her humanity due to the rage.,with what feels like the only thing keeping her in check being Dina, her girlfriend.,and as Ellie progresses trough the game and gets toward the end, when Abby gets to the cinema and confronts Ellie, Jesse, Tommy and Dina. shes starting to realize that this is not what Joel would have wanted. while Abby is about to kill Dina while Ellie is knocked down we see lev come in and save Dina by Abby seeing lev which calms her down. at the farm when jj is born Ellie is having nightmares and cant sleep, so she decides to go out and find Abby, and she eventually does find her hanged on a pole at a beach alongside Lev, and instead of just killing her there while she was defenseless she cut her down. after Abby was cut down she didn't have any strength, but instead of just attacking Ellie and taking her knife and killed her like she could have done, you could see Abby was ready to just leave and be done with everything, as we see again when they find the boats and Abby says shes not fighting Ellie anymore, that she and lev just want to be in a safe place. when Ellie threatened to kill lev by holding a  knife to his throat while unconscious Abby decides to fight Ellie just to save Lev, much like Joel would have done for Ellie and vice versa. after they battle, Ellie wins and is drowning Abby when she realizes that by killing Abby she wouldn't feel any better, it wouldn't make the pain and the memories go away, and that Ellie would be just like Abby if she did. so she takes her up and lets Abby go while she sits in the water Abby goes behind her to the boat, and she had the possibility to just go up behind her again and snap her neck, she didn't. and just left on the boat with lev.,also Abby and lev(also Yara) are like Joel and Ellie (and Tess and Sarah).,Joel doesn't like Ellie at first, Lev doesn't like Abby at first,Ellie saves Joel (winter scene), Abby saves Yara (amputation),Joel loses Sarah and tess, Lev loses Yara and Abby loses her dad,at the end of the game Joel and Ellie are like family, Abby and lev are like family.,both the relationship between Abby and lev, and Joel and Ellie grows throughout the game.,,Overall this game is a 10/10
3871) I think the game was realistic. Tlou world is not "and they lived happily ever after" story, and thats why i like it. Part 2, if you ask me did perfect job delivering what the game makers wanted. Emotional rollercoaster, great characters with amazing graphics and also breath taking game mechanics. For me me it was 10/10. Big fan, cant wait for part 3.
3872) I have seen Ellie from child to teenage and then to adult.I really want to see HOW ELLIE'S LIFE CONTINUE .WHAT THINGS WILL HAPPEN IN ELLIE'S LIFE AFTER THE ENDING OF "The last of Us 2" in "The last of us 3" and of course i really hope and want Ellie will be the MAIN CHARACTER in "The last of Us 3" .I love this story this game and Ellie so much.
3873) The Last of Us: Part II is not for the faint of heart, nor a game that will be loved by everyone, and in its 25-30 hour campaign, frequently subverts expectations set up in the minds of its fans over the past seven years, but is a thrilling, complex and emotionally devastating sequel that makes you question your heroes and showcases the consequences of everyone's actions, no matter the purpose behind them. Naughty Dog has taken a massive leap with the game, and their PS4 swan song is for the ages.
3874) The best game in the world ❤️❤️❤️,The best game in the world ❤️❤️❤️The best game in the world ❤️❤️❤️The best game in the world ❤️❤️❤️The best game in the world ❤️❤️❤️The best game in the world ❤️❤️❤️The best game in the world ❤️❤️❤️The best game in the world ❤️❤️❤️The best game in the world ❤️❤️❤️The best game in the world ❤️❤️❤️The best game in the world ❤️❤️❤️The best game in the world ❤️❤️❤️The best game in the world ❤️❤️❤️
3875) If you have some problems in your head or with other people's sexuality, go look for help.,The point of the game is pretty clear and well represented , this game is about hate and revenge and what this can carry to yourself and others,,that this acts should bring you nothing but bad things.,But of course you prefer to judge or cry because something happen and you don't like it, it's fine if you don't, but,let other people enjoy it if the want to.,One last thought if you have a problem with what people like, first that sad, you should really talk to someone about it, and,live your life without making sure that everyone is the same.
3876) Everything’s great, on my second play through. Some aspects appear to be next gen not sure how they made it a PS4 game
3877) Words can't describe how good this game was. Just play it through from start to finish, and then make your judgement about it. The game takes its time to craft its massive story, and it will be rewarding if you let it.
3878) So good, so immersive. Gameplay, graphics and plot are great. Naughty Dog did it again
3879) You dont treat this like a game. You treat this lika an real, heart breaking expirience
3880) Is this game fun to play? Yes and no.,This game challenges you. In your expectations, your prejudices. if you haven't gotten over yourself yet, this game is not for you. The world and this game doesn't owe you **** It is not how You like it??? Pitty.,I play games since 1985. Never played a game like that. Great games move something inside you.,Shadow of the Colossus, Journey, Mass Effect 2, The Stanley Parable, The Last of Us.,You can examine and dissect them and scold them for what they do wrong in your opinion. But why?  It takes the fun out of it. What they did right.... Isn't that what were after? The Magic.,When the sum is bigger than the parts.,Graphics are beautiful and i liked the more vertical level-building.,Fantastic game, i am glad it exists.
3881) The last of us part 2, we start with the story, the story in this part is different from the previous part, in this part the story about revenge unlike the previous part that was his emotional story, the story in this part I expect that it does not fit everyone but I have liked the story, and now we come to  Gameplay style, it has improved a lot from the previous part and artificial intelligence has become better, and I think that the artificial intelligence in this game is the best, the game world is very beautiful and full of fine details, the music and acoustics in this game are legendary and they clearly put a lot of effort on it, there is in the game  Some technical errors, but I do not think that harm your progress in the game.
3882) It's sad that people review bomb this game,, was a great experience to play this. Alot of emotions, Joel dying, ellie losing everything,, aby losing everything.. Sad story but I liked it in the end. Great attention to detail and I loved the combat
3883) best game I've ever played. visuals 11/10... audio 10/10.... story wtf/10... gameplay 10/10. nuff said
3884) Best game ever. Don't understand those donkeys disliking it. Maybe because u hate lesbians or u want nice girls acting? Bunch of ignorants
3885) Never have I played a game that has moved me so emotionally as this one. I have felt anger, discomfort, excitement, fear, empathy, sorrow and all the while, enjoying every second of it.,,Before I pre-ordered this game, I was quite concerned by what people were talking about the story. So I made the tough decision of reading the leaks and finding out what happened. Once I got that out of the way, I went ahead and got the game on release. I started playing it with very critical eyes. I was prepared to hate the characters and the direction. Instead, I was disarmed and won over, a couple hours in. The performances and writing was masterful. I was instantly enthralled by the world I was thrown into. I had a lot of reservations about Abbey, until the last 10 hours of the game. I was pleasantly surprised by how it manages to shift your opinion of a woman who you are geared up for hating. A character that from the very beginning, is seen as a villain. You feel like a pendulum of emotions, as the game grinds to it's very emotional finale. I felt my own morale compass being put into question, as I felt guilty for siding with one character to the next. It was the kind of inward thinking that no game has ever evoked in me. And it's because of this, it's an undeniable masterpiece.,,This game without a doubt, has the most intense and exciting gameplay I've ever enjoyed. It manages to make you feel vulnerable and powerless, while giving you about a hundred different ways to kill enemies. When you get a killing streak, with near perfect flow, it can be the most satisfying thing. It reminds me of Hotline Miami and the brutal, fast paced decisions you have to make, while running through an arena of enemies. The crafting and looting are almost identical to the first game, with a bit more depth. I have to admit, looting is not my favourite thing to do in any game, but it feels necessary in this case.,,I've played a lot of games through out the years and this one will probably stick with me for a long time. It's easily one of the best games I've ever played and I can't wait to jump back in for a second play though. My advice is to play this game, knowing as little as possible about it. Ignore the haters and enjoy this game for what it is! The PS4 was made for this game.
3886) One of the best games that ever created. The gameplay is just great and addictive. I loved the story and I think that’s better than the first one. The graphics are arguably the best that we’ve ever seen on PS4 and the sound’s amazing. Also Gustavo Santaolalla and MAC Quayle made a magnificent soundtrack that fits perfectly well in the game.
3887) The best game of the year, the characters are humans and the history is solid. Is a travel of lose, is a travel in the abysm of mind.,The details of the game are asome, is a good game.
3888) Last of us was an incredible game driven by story and incredible actors with suspenseful gameplay. Last of Us 2 capitalized on this. This game did a great job at telling a difficult and painful story. Then the game goes and takes a turn and makes you play through the story from the other perspective which was done very well. Last of Us 2 will stand as my favorite game of all time.
3889) This game was a roller coaster of emotions. I’ve never taken a journey like this in a video game. By far one of the most complex and detailed games I’ve ever played. Every detail in the game matters and is a part of the theme. The game play is phenomenal and allows for a realistic adventure with very well paced waves of several enemy types. The evolution of gameplay from the first game is spectacular and introduces new things to interact with while there are also new dangers to worry about in combat. Characters and violence have extreme highs and lows, and although at some point all of the characters made some kind of upsetting choice, I never once felt it didn’t belong in the story. The story makes sense. The decisions they make align with the characters and what happens aligns with this universe. It’s hard and hurts, as it should in a harsh world where there is never a safe moment or rarely a “happy ending” for these characters. The diversity in the cast and characters from age, sexuality, body types, etc. is very natural and it feels good to play such a widely known game that does it so well. I laughed and smiled so wide at humor and absolutely stunning scenes, cried sad and happy tears where I felt so intensely for the characters, and I nearly crapped myself at some of the encounters with new enemy types. Well deserved 10/10 for overall attention to detail in every aspect. I have never played anything like it and it’s hard to accept that not all other games will feel the same after this amazing piece of art.
3890) The game was able to touch the strings of my soul. It was able to play a good melody on my feelings. I was worried about both sides and couldn't decide for myself who really right. Can revenge for a loved one soothe the soul? The soul that doesn't understand that revenge will not stop her suffering, but only give rise to a greater evil about which it is scary to think? All this can be considered very broadly and for a long time. The LGBT agenda with which many are furious... so much little, I almost didn't notice it. Honestly, analyzing the whole game, it's difficult to say that this is propaganda or an agenda. Special thanks to Gustavo for his great soundtrack. This person knows his job and helps to feel what the players should feel at the moment. As a result, I finished the game with a very heavy load on my soul. Directly fully aware of everything that happened before. It’s hard, very hard to accept all of it, but it’s necessary. I look forward to continuing the story. I hope it will be. It's impossible that the story ends like this. It's obvious. Such a mixed feeling aroused in general. I bet 10/10, because I think that the game is made perfectly in every aspect.,-,Игра смогла задеть струны моей души. Смогла сыграть неплохую мелодию на моих чувствах. Я переживал за обе стороны и не смог решить для себя, кто же на самом деле прав. Может ли месть за родного человека успокоить душу? Душу, не понимающую, что месть не остановит её страдания, а только породит большее зло про которое страшно подумать? Всё это очень широко и долго можно рассматривать. ЛГБТ-повестка с которой многие бесятся... Её мало, я почти не заметил. Честно, анализируя всю игру, то трудно сказать, что это пропаганда или повестка.,Отдельное спасибо Густаво за его великолепные саундтреки. Этот человек знает своё дело и помогает почувствовать то, что должны чувствовать игроки в данный момент.,По итогу, закончил игру с очень тяжёлым грузом на душе. Прям полностью осознавая всё происходящее ранее. Тяжело, очень тяжело принять всё, но нужно. Жду продолжения истории. Надеюсь, оно будет. Нельзя, чтобы так закончилось всё. Это же очевидно. Такое смешанное чувство вызвало в общем. Ставлю 10/10, потому что считаю, что игра сделана отлично. С какой стороны не глянь.
3891) Amazing game! Not believe in bad reviews! Just play the game and you see!!!
3892) This game is clearly a Masterpiece, one of the best I have ever played. It's such a complex game that I understand all the retards/incel who hated it, because they didn't understand the story. Bravo naughty dog for this game, and thank you for shharing it with us !
3893) Emotional, touching, captivating. This second chapter is the perfect sequel to the first part. Both are masterpieces, I wouldn't even know which one to pick. Of course it's heartbreaking to play for so many reasons, but I don't think any other videogame has ever had such a profound impact. Excellent job by Naughty  Dog (again!).
3894) A fantastic emotional experience. A masterpiece of storytelling and a technical marvel.
3895) The game is phenomenal. It’s unlike anything I’ve ever played and it took huge risks that many devs would never take.,The bad first:,My only negatives are that the gameplay can get a little repetitive after awhile and that yes, some of the ways things play out are a little unrealistic, but I understand why realism is sacrificed in order to make the experience fun for the player.,The good:,The story is amazing if you can allow yourself to exhibit a little empathy. This game is set in a tough, cruel, brutal setting. It’s not a world of heroes and villains, it’s a world of survivors who have the opportunity take the law into their own hands.,Graphics and score are breathtaking.,Relatable characters that you get attached to. It’s clear at this point that people are divided on this, but personally my favorite performance was Laura Bailey as Abby. Abby is unlike any female pro/an(?)tagonist  I’ve seen in 30 years of gaming and I really appreciated seeing someone portrayed that doesn’t fit this cookie cutter mold you see from many female characters.  I fear the backlash from the mentally unstable, privileged, disgusting losers who are sending death threats (DEATH THREATS!?!?) to writers and voice actors over a freaking video game will deter devs from taking these type of risks in a future. My suggestion is that if you are one of these people that are easily triggered anytime anyone other than white males get a little shine, if you feel attacked every single time something is praised that’s not white male dominated, if you are one of these people that can’t wait to tear down successful media that doesn’t necessarily represent you, please stay away from this game. Go play Super Mario and the hundreds of other games that have been created throughout history with only you in mind and live your little power fantasy. Your hatred is only making this game more talked about, more relevant and more successful.,My suggestion that if you are actively sending death threats to anyone, but in this case particularly people who are simply writing and performing a piece of entertainment that literally means nothing in the most literal sense that nothing can mean in the grand scheme of things, is to please, please seek help. You are an embarrassment to the human race.,Congrats Naughty Dog! I hope to see at least one more game set in this universe as I ended the game only wanting more, but if this was the last ride, it was still more than we deserved.
3896) Very touching plot, although the ending is very gray, but very real, emotional delicate. Other aspects, needless to say, are perfect. Thanks for the naughtydog.
3897) One of the best games of the generation.,Don't listen to the review bombers who have either never even played the game or go into the game due to the leaks. Please play and decide for yourself.
3898) It is such a great game it has me on the edge of my seat and peaks my interest. I have not had a game keep me excited to see what is gonna happen next like this game. It is honestly better than any movies I’ve watched because the story telling is so good. Getting to see the game through Abby and Ellie allows you to connect with both characters and understand their development. Lgbt representation might have been a cash grab, but if it helps bring more awareness and representation into other games I think it does such a great job at doing that and hope to see more game developers base stories around gay characters!
3899) The game makes improvements to the first one in every way and also makes you ride on a rollercoaster of emotion never experienced in a game before
3900) An amazing and breathtaking game! The gameplay, the visuals, the tiny details and the narrative, I was blown away by all of it!,Highly recommend the game, honestly. Don’t listen to the haters, who (judging by their comments) haven’t even played the game.,I was a little worried about the story after hearing the first reviews, but can honestly say that they were so wrong! Which I’m ecstatic about! The way the gameplay was carried about and decisions that had to be made, the overall emotion of the game carries you with it perfectly. I started out one section really not wanting to play in the way they were making me, but within the first 3 minutes I was immersed!,100% recommend! A must play!
3901) Insane game with insane characters! Loved it! Very good combat and very good level design. Just so good!
3902) Bad reviews must be from people who have not played the game... If you liked the first, you'll love this master piece!
3903) This game is an absolute masterpiece! Whether you like the direction the game goes or not, it is still a thrilling journey and an emotional roller coaster, without a doubt this game is extraordinary!,Thanks ‘Naughtydog’
3904) This game is a masterpiece !! Don't believe this **** reviews bombing and play it !!
3905) This game is near-perfect in my eyes. There are some very minor issues for me with the sheer volume of items, but it is a work of art that grits, hurts, and challenges you as a player; not many games do that and are also gargantuan in size.,Lots of the negative reviews here are from people who are either:,1. not mature enough to handle a story/a story detail that wasn't what they wanted, which is very ironic considering the original game and it's challenge,,Or,2. Homophobes/mysogenysts/bigots (apparently in 2020 some gamers are still disturbed by playing a non-white-male/traditionally-beautiful-straight-woman.,If you are not a baby and willing to invest a few hours in a story that's complex, painful, and skips the fanfare to tell a great story, I promise you it is worth picking up and supporting.
3906) I never go out of my way to rate things like this, but I felt like the baseless vitriol surrounding this game needed a bit of a counterbalance. This game is objectively excellent on nearly every front. Stop acting like children or you'll discourage this type of world-class storytelling in AAA games and we'll be stuck with endless Fortnites.
3907) Gameplay is remarkable, better then Uncharted 4 is some sections, stealth is super satisfying, story is very memorable and the best I’ve seen in a long time.
3908) Disappointed with all these low scores from games. One of the best story-drive games to date.
3909) Best exclusive game ever, and my second favorite game after The Witcher 3. Couldn't get more satisfied
3910) Despite the almost unchanged gameplay this is a good game and it worth to buy and play.
3911) Brilliant acting, amazing deep storytelling, masterpiece of a game! Don’t understand The mixt feelings, so do yourself a pleasure and play the game instead of rate it only because of The spoilers.
3912) This game was amazing but did it have its faults yes playing as abby was like pulling teeth no matter no much they tried to humanize her I kept waiting to the end so I could kill her I understand what they were going for but when u kill a beloved character it doesn't matter about y she did it but with all that said it was very good and have never been this emotionally involved  in a game
3913) I found the game incredible. the plot, character development. the way the game approached important issues in a mature way. I loved everything about this game. I just reset it and I can't think of any defects.
3914) Excellent storytelling, it shows us not only about vengeance, but also about the consequences of our actions and how these result in never ending cycles.
3915) If a few character deaths and a gay character is all it takes to apparently make a bad game I shutter to think how you idiots will play games in the next couple of years. The game is fine. The story is great. The game play is superb.
3916) Nota 10 is the best game I played in years!! The jugability is very nice........
3917) Say what you want about killing Joel. The story worked and was emotionally charged by his demise and continued the theme of Ellie and Joel's relationship beautifully. Abby was interesting and a great "antagonist". Beautifully crafted and told story that felt grounded and visceral. The mise-en-scene and the storytelling generally were nothing short of beautiful.,Gameplay was solid and scenarios were great but nearly repetitive.
3918) I loved it!,Intense gameplay, heart breaking scenes and very interesting take on story telling.,I finished the game after 3 days of intense gaming and I was completely invested.,I love the different perspectives and new characters.,Stunning graphics and awesome violence!
3919) It is truly a masterpiece. The combat is exhilarating, the story emotionally challenging, and the world and character design are incredible. If you are squeamish or are looking for something that keeps the plot similar to The Last of Us Part I, you may not enjoy this game.
3920) Just finished the game, this game is an absolute Masterpiece.   Naughty dog is a super talented studio and what they have accomplished with this games in terms of graphic , gameplay , & story wise on a 7 year old console is simply astonishing.
3921) Wonderful (sad) story, very immersive world and fantastic storytelling with amazonh twists. Just great!
3922) This game is amazing. If you hated it, then you did not understand it. If you review bombed it because it hurt your feelings, then I feel bad for you.
3923) I can´t believe the campaign of hate surrounding this game. People should be ashamed of their idiotic attitude towards all the people involved in the making of the game. It seems pretty obvious that those people didn´t even play the game and are just haters. The game is an awesome example of going forward in all aspects, and video games are nos exempt of that. The game itself is awesome story-wise, and from a narrative point of view, character development is astonishing, and it gets under your skin pretty easy. I loved every aspect of it, it´s a technical marvel and all developers should look at naughty dog work as an example to follow. Right from the very start it feels like a masterpiece, one of a kind, and it touches very sensitive points of being human, so it transcends as more than a game. I take my hat and bow to Naughty Dog for the monumental work of doing such an incredible piece of digital art, just keep up with the good work guys.
3924) The game has an interesting plot, full of surprising details, the graphics are amazing, the characters were pretty good written
3925) Everyone is always wanting a happy ending but when does that ever happen in life.  Life is full of trials that you must overcome.  Events that shape the way you are.  Ellie has experienced tons and is incredibly vengeful, she doesn’t let things go. I recall in the first game she said “Everyone she ever cares about **** leaves her” keep that in mind.  The beauty of this game is in viewing other perspectives and realizing others situations and how screwed up everyone is, Ellie included.  Overall this is a great game with incredible graphics and the story is excellent.  The people that voted the story poorly are just wanting a game to lie to them and tell them everything pans out.,I wouldn’t be surprised if naughty dog makes a DLC that has a different ending for the people that can’t stand how life isn’t fair.
3926) Perfect. Gameplay, exploration and cinematica are cordinated in a good way. The world Is full of violence bit there are Always Hope
3927) The last of us part II is an incredible game, Emotional, heartbreaking and raising all moral questions that how far are we willing to go for our loved ones. It is a worthy successor of the part I
3928) This game is incredible, from the gameplay till the history, but this is to much hard, the scenes etc, it isnt for sensive people, about history, isnt the **** that they are saying, and godnnes the facial model has nothing to do with the game, dont disturb she.,This game show us the worst human part, the revenge, there's no hero and villain, there only survivors and humans. the amazing of this game is the details and how the peoples change.
3929) It's just the first game upgraded and longer, better gameplay, fantastic animation, perfect  soudtruck.,Very funny to play.,Very mature and intense story.
3930) An authentic masterpiece! Everything in this game is awesome, the gameplay is amazing, the story is incredible and very emotional!
3931) The story:  Standard fare for video games is good vs bad.  The violence is justified because you play the good guy, and the bad guys are clearly bad. TLoU2 isn't so simple. If you can handle a complex story with blurred lines between right and wrong, good guy and bad guy, then you will enjoy this game to the very end. The touching moments, and the feelings of joy and loss will stick with you for days. The game play,If you play like me, this is an excellent stealth game. You can stalk your prey by keeping under cover, hiding in grasses, and misdirection.  When ready to strike, I like arrows and knives. You don't have to play like me though.  If you prefer a more formal assault you have a wide selection of guns, smoke bombs, mines, explosive ammo.  The game isn't just fighting, it is character interaction. As with any Naughty Dog game, you spent a good chunk of it playing with an NPC partner.  Your partner isn't an obstacle in the way, they actively help you take down the infected or other enemies.  The contextual conversations that take place enrich the experience and often flow seamlessly in and out of perfectly acted cut scenes.,The graphics,The environments are simply beautiful.  The forests are alive, the rivers and ocean are foreboding and the streets are believable result of decades of disuse. I loved this game. 10 / 10.
3932) I've never written a review in the past, but I feel obligated to land my two cents after witnessing the completely unreasonable review-bombing of the game.,,Gameplay,It's more or less the same gameplay as in the first game, only refined. It's simple, very fluent, easy to learn yet appropriately hard to fully master. While simple in form, the level design and combat mechanics also give much lenience in terms of "choosing your way". You'll always be having several options in how you deal with a scene or a challenge, be it through brute force, stealth, escape or a fine mix.  This perspective on the gameplay is of course subjective, and as with the first game many will likely find the game's combat mechanics a little too simple. It is also worth noting how the gameplay translates very well into almost every cutscene, leaving the player with a stunning cinematic experience.,,Graphics,There's not much to be said in regard to the graphics. A game can't possibly become any better than this on the PS4. The world is masterfully crafted, runs surprisingly smoothly and leaves the players to discover and take in the scenery through very flexible camera controls. The character animation is also stunning, and even the faces of your enemies are carefully put together to portray brutal emotions in face of death. Hands down the most beautiful game I have experienced, and one that will forever represent the peak of PS4's capacity.,,Story,The story is the game's most contested aspect, and the reason for that is in my opinion rather clear cut: the game really demands a lot of its player. I'm convinced one needs to approach this game with an open mind to be struck and absorbed by the story that is served. For it is served, just as in the first game. Aside from choosing one's way to go about or around the many combat encounters, there's no true player agency to speak of. That means that one must be open to the direction the story invites to, or risk playing the game in opposition to its very premise. If you aren't able to alter and adjust your perspective in accordance with the shifts of the story, you'll likely find yourself judging the game hollow and unattuned. Is that a fault of the game however? I argue that it is not, for it clearly is an intended challenge to be overcome by the player.,,Naughty Dog asks of the player to step into the the others' shoes. Without being open to this  the game is bound to fall short, and for a game studio to willingly accept that is puzzling to me. It really rises the bar of what a game can be. It stands as a meta-challenge beyond anything gaming has provided in the past. The Last of Us Part II goes beyond puzzles, levels and combat encounters to challenge its players - it aims at mind and soul, and bids you to dive into uncomfortable emotional depths in a way never before explored. It will not be everyone's cup of tea, and many will not accept the challenge that is invited to, but those who do will be left puzzled and with lasting impressions. The music and soundwork helps elevate the story's impacts and the world itself in a beautiful, if not perfect way.,,In the end I loved it, and am still feeling it.
3933) I just finished the game, the 5 is undeserved. I would normally put 9 but want to contribute to the higher rank.
3934) Excellent graphics, mechanics and story. Despite the bad comments, the story is so well delivered and developed. It is indeed different from TLOU part one, but that doesn’t mean it’s a bad game.
3935) The best game I have ever played, story wise. I was captivated the whole time - seeing the story from both sides - it was breathtaking. Such a great way to introduce and develop a new character. Going from hating her to loving her story arc. Absolute masterpiece. Well done! Can’t wait to play the next one - focused on Abby and Lev!
3936) An incredible game in graphics, setting, gameplay, music, an excellent story about revenge and the consequences it brings. A game that you must play in this generation without fail.
3937) Don't be a fan be a gamer.,The game is beautiful, massive but balanced though.
3938) Masterpiece, too much art in a video game.  I loved it!!! Graphics, gameplay, characters, the outcome of the story, of course there had to be consequences after what Joel did in the first part, I love the difference between the love and protection story of the first part and the hate and revenge story of this.second part.
3939) Thank you Naughty Dog ​​!! And thanks personally to  Neil Druckmann !!! This is the best I've played in the last 2 years.
3940) Those reviews are not about the game they're about us as player. Of course this game is a Masterpiece, on all aspects for me. I loved the story, I loved the dissolving of the original into a very dark experience that keeps on dragging you to the bottom - showing bits of lights. All of that through a genius pacing - like something slowly burning. The gameplay is amazing - each fight feels truly unique and each death has its weight. And - OMG - all the aesthetic details that has been poured into this - an achievement in environmental storytelling. This is the first game that I knew I was going to play twice. So, back to t  he beggining : this score is a demonstration of our behaviour toward a media that keeps changing and the fact that we still don't respect game creators enough so we accept them as author of their game. They did what they did because that's what they wanted to tell and to transmit. And looking at all the badly argued hatred in these reviews, they succeded : they shown how deep the interaction with the viewer is when videogame show its true potential. So, congrats Naughty Dog - You've achieved something really unique : it will take time for may of us to understand that.
3941) Wow. The best game I have ever played. And I have played hundreds. You may hate this game. But it’s worth taking the chance that you will love it. I can not recommend it highly enough.
3942) Loved it!!! I don’t understand everyone’s outrage! Ellie really grew up! The story really moved me. I was so sad when Joel died!
3943) The Last Of Us Part 2 is the best technical game of ps4, the story not is perfect but this is a seriously game not a disney's story
3944) Great story, it hit me with so many emotions. This is the only game which can do that for me.,Great Graphics, every scene is beautiful.,Great Gameplay, yes it's exactly like the first game, but much better. Amazing animations and it's super smooth. I kept playing and playing, it was amazing.
3945) Great story, first time I've changed my opinion about characters while playing the game. Must play on PS4.
3946) Game is Amazingly Great!!  Just finished it!!  Not sure how that meny ppl finished it to rate it in 48 hours of release!!!  Loved tf out of it!!!  Definitely playing again and again!!!
3947) I didn't know what I was expecting with the last of us 2. But holy mackerel this is a raw ride with very big emotional swings. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll be impressed by a lot of bold decisions. I really like the risks in story telling, and the story. You don't always get to pick the way a story plays out as much as you'd like it to. Well done naughty dog, you took risks and I'm glad you did. 10 outta 10!
3948) At least as good a the first part. Top notch game play and stunning graphics and audio. Amazing story. It is a bit weird to play as the enemy who you want to die, but this is still the best game this generation.
3949) I know all people don’t agree with the story, but in my opinion this game is one of the best of all time, both of the games are the best I have ever played, one of the best storyline games out there. From being with Joel and Ellie from part 1 to see what happens in the second one, is heart-pumping. This is why I have given this title a 10/10 Well done Naughty Dog, what a grand job you’ve done
3950) the best game of the year without a doubt, I had never played a game that would give me such an experience and I will never play for a long time, there is absolutely no cons in this game, the graphics, the models, the dubbing, the history, the development of the characters and the facial expressions that are incredible.
3951) Beautiful yet dark and scary at times. TLOU2 will eject every type of emotion that your body can produce. Much like how Ellie plucks away at the strings on her guitar. Naughty Dawg plucks away at your heart strings. 10 out of 10 Naughty Dawg does it again with another larger then life story. Bravo
3952) There are many people talking badly about this game .. But for me it´s the best game I've ever played, It´s perfect. 10/10,Think about the story.,And It's a game that makes us feel every moment more intense.
3953) This game is a technical masterpiece. Incredible gameplay and world building through exploration. Lots of people can't cope with the story, because some bad things happen to beloved characters. This is subjective- lots of fans want challenging storytelling, rather than pandering fairytales. The world of The Last of Us II is screwed up- of course things are going to get dark.,,If you have only watched gameplay online or read spoilers, you should still try playing this game - after all, it's a video game- not a film. It needs to be played- you will be put into the shoes of some very complex characters, but if you invest the time, the payoff is incredibly moving (and redemptive!),,I am suspicious of all the negative reviews before it was possible to complete this 26+ hour film- I think lost of people just saw spoilers or streamers playing and decided it was trash. But you should only take reviews seriously that have actually played the game- not everyone will love it, but many will think it's an even better game that the first! I actually might consider myself among them- gotta start my second playthrough to be sure :)
3954) The game requires that you open your mind to understand that it is a character driven story and not a story to affirm yourself. None of the beloved characters are perfect people...some people fail to understand that the Joel from this game is a softened person because Jackson and meeting Ellie made him human again. Some people Forget what a mean person Joel was...almost evil...since the death of Sarah. Some would say he was like that to survive but even Tommy says in the first game that Joel did things that gave him nightmares implying that his behavior made them go their separate ways...Tommy even says that he'd rather be dead than living with those nightmares that Joel Gave him. The love of Ellie Gave Joel his humanity back saying that from the first game a lot people failed to understand that Abby's story is similar to Joel's too not only with Ellie's. Ellie doesn't kill Abby in the end not for mercy...but because by the end of Abby's Journey Abby is a a redeemed person who also is a child protector...just like Joel...Ellie has an insight that she would be killing Lev's Joel(Abby)...Naughty dog even inserts a Joel's image right at moment to explain that...the gameplay, gfx and level design are top notch  the best in the industry...the only problem is that people who didn't understand the first game that is a story of redemption and not only  protection...this game shows...that other people may not forget your sins and that people can also redeem themselves just like Joel did...
3955) Although I understand why people are not happy with TLOU 2, it still does not deserve a 0 or 1. The graphics are truly marvelous. The attention to detail is borderline obsessive compulsive.  It definitely pushes your PS4 to its graphical limits. This is no easy feat and I commend the designers and developers for this. Let's move on to the gameplay. Well yes, it's very much the same as TLOU 1 but is that necessarily a bad thing?  I understand why people aren't ok with this since innovation is expected in sequels. To me, TLOU series was never about the gameplay,  Naughty Dog's primary focus was the story and that's where they banked on. And banked on indeed! Fans are split. Yes the story leaves a bitter, burning acidic taste in your mouth from the get go. The story is dark, gritty and leaves you empty but that's exactly what makes it a brilliant game. Character development was nicely paced and needed. Acting chops of of each character in the game was top notch. The emotional impact that TLOU 2 rivals that of a finely crafted drama movie. No other game has made me feel that way.  Overall, TLOU 2 was an incredible, breathtaking ride. Can't wait for the HBO series!
3956) I'm so utterly confused at how people are disappointed with this game. I'm a huge fan of the first one. The new characters are likeable, the ending is beautiful, playing as Abby is a neat twist on the perspective, I could go on and on. This is a masterpiece. Just about as close as you can get to topping Part I without actually doing it.
3957) Amazing game.  The museum and aquarium sets alone are worthy of an entire game.  Just beautifully done.
3958) This is a masterpiece pure and simple. This is the most amazing experience I've ever played. It is also the darkest, it's not easy to handle. However, it's also beautiful. The story is brilliantly created to make you feel upset but also have just joy and love for the characters. I've never done a review here before as I think this site is trash.
3959) Absolutely amazing.,,Guess gamers still don't understand that feeling sad and angry can be intentionally crafted into a piece of art.
3960) Don’t listen to the neckbeards this game is great! Powerful, albeit bleak, storyline..
3961) My god, Last of Us Part 2 is a tragic tale of grief and violence and how that can destroy people. I've never felt so heavy with guilt(?) as a player. This game bloody tests you. Beautiful in all its horror, I very much appreciated the experience.,Sure it has its pacing issues, but all in all an experience I'd recommend to any fan of character studies.
3962) DO NOT believe the negative reviews the haters are posting here. Either they never played the game or they didn’t like the way the story ends. This game is marvelous and it’s the best game I have played after the last of us part1. The story is beautiful like a song but this is a sad song there is no happy ending to this story. This game makes my heart heavy and I am still thinking about the story. Trust me this game will leave a huge impact when you end this. Just enjoy the game and see how you feel before you see the reviews and back off. I totally enjoyed the gameplay worth the buy.
3963) Unfortunately, this game's story is way too subtle, difficult and complicated for some people to comprehend. So they end up feeling lost and angry, blaming it on bad writing.,There's no "plot holes", there's no "bad writing"; they're all just realistic human psychology and real life tragedy. But many people do not want realism, because realism and tragedy are not always entertaining enough. For me, as a psychology student, this game feels like a social experiment. It proves most human beings are unable to put aside their bias and prejudice and their mind is easily affected by the negativity of a loud hateful group.,That is how hate groups of any kind form in society. Because of human bias and their inability to see and understand a different POV... truly unbiased.,"Revenge is bad" is not the plot of the story. It's not that simple. It's not trying to tell anyone what is bad or good. It's about the relativity of morality. It's about human bias. It's about reality. It's about cause and effect.,This game would've had an almost perfect score if it wasn't for the same release day review bombing by people who never even played it. You can tell by looking at its PSN score (which only allows rating from people who actually purchased the game) and the fact that metacritic rating went up considerably from 3.1 (by people who actually played it).,Play the game for yourself. If you think it's bad, talk to someone who doesn't. I really hope more people get to enjoy this game because it's an absolute masterpiece and an absolute joy once you truly understand and see what's going on. I've been a gamer for over 20 years and this game right here is easily my most favorite game of all time. (RDR2 comes second),And I don't need to talk about gameplay because even haters agree that the gameplay is perfect.
3964) What a great game! It moved me in every way that you can imagine. I laughed, cried, scared, and realized that these all together makes a human being whole. The last scene will remain on my mind forever.
3965) Prior to playing this game, I made sure not to read any articles about the leaks or listen to anyone else's opinion in an attempt to not taint or bias my experience of the game. It was difficult to evade all of the people talking about the game prior to the release but I managed it.,,I genuinely thought this was the best action adventure video game I have ever played. Far superior to its predecessor. The story telling was mind blowing and the turn of events always had me guessing and took me by surprise. Needless to say, the world created by Naughty Dog was absolutely stunning.,,The gameplay was smooth and I experienced no glitches in the mechanics. Dying was gruesome and the puzzles were rewarding. The enemies can be tough to beat (depending on the level of difficulty you play) but that makes it all the more exciting. The weaponry at your fingertips was really cool and allows you to play in many different ways.,,This was a lesson on empathy. As a mental health academic and professional, one of the hardest things to explain to someone is how to be empathic. This game did that flawlessly. What you learn is that if you give someone a backstory then you suddenly feel for them and care for their humanity. All the differences between one another become futile in comparison to the insurmountable amount of commonalities that exist.,,Overall: Breathtaking storytelling. How they can get you to hate somebody and then reverse your feelings and feel for them was a feat like no other. A great case study on empathy and literally puts you in each characters shoes.,,Finally, I thought the inclusivity of a wide array of backgrounds was smooth and not forced into the story. In fact, I cannot see how the story would be so incredible had it not been for the unique experiences of each character.,,I never wanted this game to end. Yes, it's not the most uplifting. But that's the point. I found myself fearing human enemies much more than I feared clickers and bloaters. We create our own misery sometimes.,,Thank you Naughty Dog and everyone who worked on this game for creating such a magnificent piece of art and passing it on to the world. I hope you all know this was truly a sight to behold and your hard-work was worthwhile. I can't wait to see what you have coming up next.
3966) A wonderfull masterpiece , even le people are review bombing it cause they don't agree with with some choices in thé game . This type of solo narrative games with this level of budget and love is realy rare . People who dont like this game want To lives in a world games as à service with microtrasctions everywhere.not me!
3967) Simply amazing what a great game not sure why it gets so much hate from people that don’t even play it
3968) I really enjoyed the game and understood what the history wanted to tell us, if we never learn to forgiven the wars will never end. I liked the story as well.
3969) Best Game ever!!!! I can't understand the critic. This game  is so hard but true. The people of the world are so without apokalypse
3970) The graphics were great.
3971) The emotional roller coaster this game put me through deserved a 10. There were a few parts that didnt need to be playable or should be playable and were cutscene but overall the mechanics were great, the dialogue was phenomenal, and the level design got me anxious almost all the time. The combat is very intense.
3972) I don't get the hate behind this game at all. I don't see how seeing the story from the antagonist view is bad. I also don't see how killing a fan favorite character is bad if it serves to push the story forward. I feel like most of the people leaving bad reviews wanted this fantasy version of the game where nothing Joel and Ellie did had any consequences and they're just these perfect goodie two-shoes characters. Anyone who can't understand why Joel had to die really was not paying attention when playing the first game.
3973) A masterpiece !!!!!! Just do it and say thank you to Naughty Dog creators
3974) Loved the whole story arc,, first wanting to kill abby to then hope abby will be the lead char in tlou3.. Great gameplay, great gphx but damn love the story
3975) The best sequel I've ever played. Everything here is bigger and better. The gameplay is really fun. The plot is excellent, one of the best I've played in my life.
3976) A masterpiece in every aspect.,The users rating it 0 are little kids who can't get along with changes and realistic storylines.
3977) it’s a great game with a deeper meaning. the graphics are the best i’ve seen on ps4.
3978) When a game can leave you as emotional as I was, the developers did their job better than I could have expected. They don't shy away from telling THEIR story, and it was a rollercoaster of emotions. Graphically a beautiful game. The best story ever told through a video game, and hell, better than most stories out there now a days.
3979) One of the best games of the last decade, great work of art: a worthy story and an amazingly lively virtual world.
3980) Last of Us Part II is an incredible journey and a big step forward for video games. I feel bad that people are caught up in their expectations of the franchise because I got so much out of this game. The story telling in this is on par with Breaking Bad and Boardwalk Empire. Stealth and combat mechanics have been improved since the first game. Ammo scarcity forces improvisation. One of the best looking games I’ve played. Truly amazing accomplishment. Give it a shot.
3981) this game brought me a mixture of feelings, I cried, I smiled, I was very angry, but at the end of it I sent the message that the game wanted to convey to us
3982) Outstanding game, it started slow but made a huge turn and the game was honestly amazing, the whole story is just captivating and way better than i thought it would be, 100% worth it, way better than the first game.
3983) BEST SEQUEL GAME EVER. The visual is the best among any game has released. The story just brilliant and unpredictable. And the most important The Last of Us offer gaming experience for disabled people. Good job Naughty Dog.
3984) If i had to choose between this game and another game probably would choose this game. Btw don't attack VA's otherwise you a baby.
3985) one of the best game i’ve ever played, abby’ part was the best of the game
3986) I’m here to contribute to the positive change in consensus that this game rightfully deserves.,The Last Of Us Part II is an absolutely stellar game that has unfortunately been directly impacted upon release by the horrible people who leaked the spoilers months ago. People saw those, decided how they wanted to feel about it completely out of context, and suddenly it was cool to hate the game. Suddenly it was cool to label it as agenda pushing, political or whatever. It’s not. It just happens to be about real people who (shocker) arent always straight white dudes. The funniest thing is that people are still labeling Abby as trans . It wouldn’t matter if she was, but she isn’t. So by default, tons of people’s opinions aren’t valid.,I thought this game was an improvement upon the original in each and every way. It even rectified my one and only complaint in the first game, which was the super clunky melee combat that resorted to mashing square and punching enemies in the face over and over with the same animation. Adding the dodge mechanic went a long way in the sequel.,Seattle is the most well realized real world city that I’ve ever seen in a game. As someone who grew up in the area I had an absolute blast exploring every nook and cranny.,The story is utterly compelling from start to finish. I was literally on the edge of my seat with completely undivided attention during every cutscene. I desperately wanted to keep coming back to the game because I just wanted to know what happened next. It’s an added bonus then, that the gameplay is so damn good.,This is the smartest enemy AI I’ve ever encountered. It truly felt like I was hiding from real people at times. The moment I knew this was on another level was during the first encounter with Wolves. I ran into a classroom after being seen and ducked behind a desk, to which an enemy called out “she’s by the desk!”, to which I audibly said “what the ****,I admired the choice of having Joel’s death be the catalyst for the story. I was disgusted and appalled by it, and immediately understood why they did it. I now shared the same anger as Ellie. Ellie, who had just seen her “father” get viscerally murdered. And me, who had just seen the protagonist I just spent 14 hours connecting with getting murdered. That was powerful. Now the player shares the motivation completely with Ellie and is like “yep, let’s go kick the **** out of this woman.” And what an utter, shocking surprise it was later when Naughty Dog managed to make me love Abby.,There are two sides to every story. Everybody is the villain in somebody else’s story. It’s such a shame that people saw Abby do what she did and then never chose to forgive her, never gave her a chance or even tried to see from her perspective. That’s so strange to me that people were so stubborn that they went through her half of the game and had their opinion completely unchanged. That means that YOU can’t forgive people. That means you might have a problem with putting yourself in other people’s shoes. I hope you can play this game again and maybe think about what that says about yourself.,I’m still mulling over my experience with this game because I just finished it a few days ago. But for me I’d add it to my short list of what I consider perfect games, the other two being Uncharted 4 and Bioshock. Uncharted 4 is probably still my favorite Naughty Dog game, but I’m biased to that series I think cause it just means a whole lot to me.,I will add that yes, the game is ridiculously dark, but I actually walked away from it a lot more hopeful than I thought it would be. It actually ended on a somewhat positive note for both Abby and Ellie. Yes, Ellie lost her family, but she’s become a better person, she’s moving on from Joel and she’s off (I think) to go reconcile with Dina. I interpret this way: Ellie realized that if she was able to forgive Joel, then maybe Dina could forgive her. And I think she will, cause Dina rules.,I went on for a long while and I hope I wasn’t too harsh on the people who didn’t like it. If you played it and didn’t like it that’s perfectly fine. The people who don’t play it and shout around saying the game sucks need to be silenced though. (Not killed. Don’t kill them. Just, be louder than them about the true nature of this game. Because it’s incredible.),The
3987) Probably the best game I've ever played. The story is incredible, exraordinarily mature; it can be liked or not but it certainly establishes a new standard for the storytelling.,The gameplay is perfect, with stealth and chaotic moments perfectly alternated.,This is an absolute masterpiece, maybe the best game for this generation
3988) Game is not bad. Everyone who worked on this game did a great job. They don't deserve the hate.,People need to remember this is a different game. And not everyone will be happy. But the story is worth it.
3989) I loved the game, it was a storytelling experience I will never forget. I love the hope at the end and the character study of Ellie and Abby. Excited to replay and talk about this game for years to come.
3990) I played on launch day, after waiting seven years. So far the characters and the narrative are in my mind, I can't say it was fun, but I can say it was true, strong, an experience like no other.,It is a masterpiece!
3991) 10/10 for me, I went in without listening to spoilers nor any non-spoiler reviews. Unfortunately I had heard there was division and big controversy but had no idea of it’s nature.,By the end of the story I feel this is the most emotional invested and intense I’ve ever felt in a video game.,If you have an open mind, can empathise with the different characters and realise that everyone (even unnamed NPCs) has a story in the violent, disgusting world, you can get something meaningful, thought provoking and powerful from the story.,Since finishing and reading into the outrage I really think it shows that these days it’s not worth getting involved in internet communities about very personal and opinion based media like this.,If you’ve spoiled the story already, I can understand not wanting to play, but if you haven’t yet, I encourage an open mind and really trying to think about the perspectives of each character. No one in this world is right, no one is wrong, just like the reviews for the game (other than trolls and bombers)
3992) The best game i'd ever played .The only game that  can compare ,maybe RDR 2 but its subjective.
3993) This game wasn't what I expected. Which is a good thing! It's The Last of Us, not the last of Joel and Ellie. I'm glad to see a game that fleshes out gray moral concepts. At first I was disappointed playing Abby for half the game. Then as the game progressed all I could do was empathize for  for the both of them. At times I didn't know whom I was rooting for and I'm refreshed Naughty Dog would take such a risk. Part II added consequences, something that you don't deal with in part I. Hopefully this game popped some bubbles in the stereotypical gamer's lives. But just so you know. If I ever were to lose you, I think I'd lose myself...
3994) Absolutely amazing experience. Brutal gameplay with gripping story and unforgettable characters and events. Easily the best release of the year so far and the best game for PS4.
3995) The last of us fans are now one of the most toxic and terrible comunities among kpop fans and lol fans
3996) The best game ever best game play best graphics and best of the best storyline and most of the people who say it's trash didn't play it so i wish everyone play this game
3997) You can't hate this awesome game!,I can't explain my feelings after my walkthrough...
3998) Definitely one of the most memorable gaming experiences I’ve ever had in my years of playing video games. What an Amit I always but beautiful journey!
3999) I played the game for 25 hours, went through the whole story, discovered a lot of achievements, and after the credits, I was happy with the project. I hope in a couple of years, there will be a sequel, because I wonder what happened next, what happened to Abby and Ellie.
4000) For me was a amazing game, the story dont have a happy ending, Just shows what revenge was bad for the two characters, was Very Sad but a amazing story, about the graphics, no words, amazing tio, gameplay too, i going for the Platinum now, If you have a open mind you Will like the game , ALL the consequência for the first game
4001) I loved how the story made you question the motives of loved characters - it really shows that no one is good or evil, these characters are just trying to survive in the apocalyptic world the best they can and protect those they love... even if it means being destroyed by revenge in the process. I loved Abby and thought it was a great addition to play as her.
4002) This game is a flawed Masterpiece. It had some storytelling issues but the story itself was amazing. The characters were really well written. I even started to like Abby. She is a good character and deserves a chance. The ending was kinda depressing but so is real life and the message was really nice. I don't understand all the hate. I was also mad and sad that Joel died early on in the story but that does not make the story "trash". Some people say, that there was an agenda in this game but I don't agree. All of the themes made sense and were really good executed. It's still a game, so let's talk about gameplay, graphics, music, animations etc. All of those things were perfect and I can say the same thing for the actors. The details in this game are breathtaking and I can't wait to see how it will look on the PS5.  The ending is a cliffhanger and because of that I hope, that we'll see "The Last Of Us Part 3".,,p.s. sorry for my bad English (I am German)
4003) Solid game for a sequel, I enjoyed Part 2 as much or even more than Part 1. Playing as Abby and seeing her story made sense why some could hate on her (I did not) but she grew on me and I enjoyed playing as Abby a lot. I hope to see Abby in a Part 3. Great job Naughty Dog....again.
4004) The best of the best. Thats it. This game is not about revenge of lesbian, this game abot guilt.
4005) Fantastic story telling. Is very dark and not for gamers who want everything to be happy and perfect.
4006) Don't be folled by user scores being low... this AAA game is a must play game, and  a kewl sequel of TLOU1.
4007) Gamers cry too much,,That’s basically all I gotta say. Uhhhhh gotta fill up that minimum
4008) It’s so great how this game makes you feel all the possible emotions. My favorite game so far.
4009) Complete the game as you grow up and listen to every character’s words. So you will understand the idea and meaning of this project as much as possible.,Regarding LGBT:,Do you call it LGBT propaganda? Play in ME Andromeda and realize the truth - this game has a minimum of propaganda, compared to other massive projects.,This project in itself is "complicated" for complete understanding by absolutely all users. Just if you do not understand the plot, close your mouth and be silent, especially if you are a person of mass significance for the audience.
4010) A masterpiece that it shouldnt be missed by anyone who loves videogames. First game is about love, second part is about letting go. Just play the game, you will not regret it.
4011) Top favourite game my number 1,Story 10/10,Environmental 11/10,Character 11/10
4012) Played it. Loved it! This game took me on an emotional roller coaster. What an unforgettable experience!
4013) Everyone can agree that the gameplay graphics and environment are stunning. But yet theres a lot of controversy about the story. Most people seem to neglect the fact that ND said it was going to be a game about Ellie, not Joel and Ellie. Too many fans don't seem to leave the first hour and a half of the game in their minds. They watch Joel die and then that's it for them, they spend the entire game thinking it's a run of the mill revenge story and they dont comprehend everything that's playing out in front of them. It's also seems like none of them even pay attention to the fact that Joel is still by your side throughout Ellie's journey through the game, whether its flashbacks, dialogue,  or just those little moments where you know Ellie's hurting. These "fans" who bash this game don't even seem to take notice of character growth throughout the game. They don't seem to take notice that this adventure takes everything out of you and Ellie. It destroys her in emotional ways she didn't think she had anymore, and actually sickens her physically at a few points. Then you play as Abby. One of the most well written characters I've seen,  phenomenal from her voice actor to her story. You're supposed to hate her at the start, but anyone in the world should realize that she's doing what almost anyone would do. You learn her backstory,  how she was raised by a very caring man, how his death affected her  (side note: Jerry was the the dark horse character I didn't know I'd care about this much, and it was rough when you could tell that making the cure for mankind was weighing on him because the thought of taking a child's life wasn't something he wanted.). Anyways, you watch Abby grow after the events in Jackson,  and you watch her grow more than any other character in the game. She starts to understand that there's more to the world than what she sees and you can tell she understands the consequences of everything that's happened when you finally make it to the end of her journey. I've seen a lot of people say the story falls flat but, they couldn't be more wrong. I've never played a storyline game that runs you through the wringer the way that this one does.  The year isn't over, and with the PS5 coming out soon, I can see it being challenged,  but there's no reason this game should not win Game of the Year. It should get Game of the Decade too. And the writers should be acknowledged more for the genuine piece of art they laid out for us to enjoy. The actors should be praised for the absolutely masterful way they portrayed their characters and the developers and soundtrack people and anyone who I'm forgetting to mention should all be acknowledged too. You all truly gave us something worth the wait, something I plan on playing many more times.
4014) This Game ist just a rolercoaster with your feelings. But thats allright. NaughtyDog just made a very diffrent ART of Game. Play it through, maybe you'll understand what i mean. When not, then thats just not a game for you, or you're just not emotionally prepared for this. Maybe play it a secound time to understand this game. Give this game a fair chance. On my account, this game was just great and more than what i expected it to be.
4015) Wow. Absolutely phenomenal. Amazing storytelling, faultless visuals and atmosphere and some of the most addictive gameplay I’ve come across. One of the very best games ever made.
4016) I thought the story was awesome and playing different characters with opposite perspectives was really powerful. By the end I was hoping for the opposite conclusion than in the beginning. I started to find some of the gameplay a bit repetitive and not much difficulty in solving puzzles but overall still very enjoyable. What I really enjoyed in the original game was the multiplayer and it's really a tlou2 factions that I want to come out. I'll be back to tlou1 factions in the meantime.
4017) This game came into my life at a very powerful time. To say this game is a masterpiece, for me, would be an understatement. I hold Ellie so close to my heart after completing the game I feel as if she is a real person. I was with this character through all her hurt and pain and, in a brief moment, joy. This game, in my opinion, showed how dangerous a revenge story can play out. I want Ellie to find peace within her self. I love this game. It was an emotional experience, one that I have never experienced in any other medium let alone a video game. My hope is that if they make another installment that it will continue down the mental anguish road that Ellie is going through and find, in the end, peace. I love this character with all my heart.
4018) This game is a masterpiece.  Gameplay 10/10.  Atmosphere 10/10.  The study of the world 10/10.  The plot is 12/10.  The problem of this game: 1 Abby pumped hands;  2 There was 1 part (People expected a TYPICAL 2 part, but the developers pleasantly surprised with their courage. Well done.) My advice to people is to definitely go through this game.  And for those who hate this game for the plot: are you stupid?  everything that happens in this game is logical and understandable if you think about 1 part.  Super
4019) Top-notch storytelling, tense combat encounters, terrific performances, beautifully realized post-apocalyptic world in which exploration is meaningfully rewarded and a story that moves you deeply and invokes a wide range of feelings - all of these make TLOU Part II a worthy sequel and a masterpiece in its own right. It’s a grim and bleak parable about vengeance and the cycle of violence, but with many moments of genuine beauty and tenderness which I’ve rarely seen in a game. The narrative structure and plot developments are brave and some of them even hard to digest, but all of it ties in seamlessly with the overall theme of the game and the nature of the unforgiving world the developers have created. A must-play for every PS4 owner.
4020) Ok where do I even begin with this brilliant game.,,First of all, the people who put bad reviews are just idiots who probably like spongebob games (and yes someone who wrote a bad review gave a SPONGEBOB GAME AN 8). This game is probably the GREATEST GAME IN THE WORLD. I love how they killed Joel quickly, not because I dont like Joel but it just makes the story interesting. And another review I saw said “Before they kill Joel they need to give Abby some backstory so that we understand why” but I love how they didnt, they made it so that you hate Abby at first then realise after the flashbacks Abby has a reason to. And its cool how they killed of so many people so then you get sad a lot which makes sense why? Because its a zombie apocalypse game. I hate to break it to you but in a zombie apocalypse lots of people die. So if your angry by that then you probably like disney endings. The ending is amazing, Ellie letting Abby live, Ellie getting back to the farmhouse and soooo much more. The whole story is amazing and you always want to play more. And it makes you realise, Abby isnt evil shes nice. Sure she killed Joel in a horrible way but when you play as Abby again she says she regrets it! Another thing I love is when Abbys foot is on Tommys head it makes you wait to see what happens. And the Rat King is terrifying but cool, im so happy they added a new infected thats super scary. And shamblers are epic they arent as strong as bloaters but they’re so cool. If you dont like tlou 2 then your a weirdo who thinks everything is PC. I feel bad for Naughty Dog how they got so many bad reviews and I hope the average score goes up and i know it will.
4021) Was an experience unlike anything I ever played and I mean it in a good way.  The gameplay, technical aspects, art, and mechanics are great.  The story is well written but does make you think and was invokes emotions and makes you think which turned off many.  But I loved it.
4022) Just Completed a while ago.For me it was a great game.I really Enjoyed the first.I don't know there are many negative reviews.As the makers say it is a dark game set in a dark age.The another playable character abbys segment made a caring for the character that Ellie kills.It was a good idea by the director. In one word it is a Masterpiece.
4023) this game may not be for everyone. But it is a work of art that will stand the test of time for challenging us to forgive and care about the other
4024) Game is amazing! Idk why people keep review bombing a game that they probably haven't even played yet. You're a sheep if that's you...10/10. Another great Sony exclusive.
4025) I'm just crying this game it's just a rollercoaster of emotions, I can't describe what I'm feeling
4026) What a masterpiece. Incredible story, graphics and gameplay. Knowing what happens to the characters really changes the way you think about the first game as well, even years after it’s release. I loved it and wouldn’t change a thing about it.
4027) "If I ever were to lose you,,I'd surely lose myself.",Song that Joel played for Ellie.,Now Ellie is playing it for him.,My heart is shattered.
4028) Best gameplay, deep emotional trip. I never was comfortable with tlou ending. And this one is the balance needed.
4029) A dark, brutal and sad tale about vengance and violance with the possibility of redemption. Richly entertaining though and I can’t recommend it enough.
4030) This game is a masterpiece! Whoever says the oposite is too shallow to understand how deep the characters are. It's a game about consequences. From the begining till the very end.,Don't pay atention to prejudiced ratings. Play the game, try to feel the characters' feelings. Their passion. Their anger. Their pain. After that, take your own conclusion.
4031) Best emotional game experience since last of us part one. Simply a masterpiece in every aspect.
4032) This is by far one of the best narrative driven games of this generation. This game is better than the original in pretty much every way. I'm giving it a 10 out of 10 but it doesn't mean it's without its flaws. However, the emotional impact it will have on you will make you ignore its imperfections. Amazing game.
4033) One of my favorite games I have played in a long time. Strong character drama, oozes atmosphere, a very creative game that is unlike anything I have played before. Very much recommended.
4034) If you're a fan of Naughty Dog, The Last Of Us, and wanted a sequel, this game doesn't disappoint!! Gameplay is similar to the first with added improvements and better enemy AI. The graphics on the regular PS4 are absolutely GORGEOUS, the environments are extremely unique and varied, and this game is beyond brutal. It's a perfect mixture of tension, action, and survival horror. I absolutely hated the ending, but throughly enjoyed the first half of the game so much, I played it immediately a 2nd time. Without spoiling anything, ND gave you what feels like 2 games in one. This is a MUST BUY for fans of ND and the first game.
4035) One of the greatest stories ever told. Ever.  I thought it was masterful and. An or wait to see the HBO adaptation of it all.
4036) One of the best gamea i've ever played. The direction e the execution of the narrative is one of the most impressive things that i've ever seen on any entertainment content. You need to be a very mature and open minded person to get close to the level of undestanding in each hidden meanings that the game try to tell. Outstanding.
4037) It is a masterpiece — the best I've ever played.  Do not look at any scores until you play, only this way you can make up your mind.
4038) Masterclass has twist and turns that make you rethink what you know about the characters. All around perfection
4039) The best story I have ever been told, and I'm so glad it was done through the medium of video games. I felt every emotional change that the game wanted me to feel. Remove your expectations of where this story should go. It's not your story, trust that Naughty Dog knows what it's doing. This is a crowning achievement for video games, and will drive the industry forward by leaps and bounds. Movies, shows and books cannot achieve the same immersion with the story that video games can, and this game is strongest example of how powerful that difference can be.
4040) Just to be clear I am a PC gamer primarily and the Last of Us Part 2 is a great game end of story
4041) Best game direction i ever seen in a video game. Every place in this game is incredible beautiful. Gameplay violent and perfect 10/10 **** you guys that dont understand that this game just break every cliche in revenge stories.
4042) Not was I was expecting, but then neither was part 1. Undeniable that this makes you feel.
4043) The Last Of Us Part 2 is like every game that came before it. Being it's not perfect, but its also like few games before it being an absolute masterpiece. If you own a Ps4 you owe it to yourself to play it!
4044) can't understand why this game got so much hate,it's good game and Abby is good character,really enjoy this game
4045) This game is the best of the best of all the games... Is a masterpiece!!! Don't lisence what they say for this game... All they say omg Joel die yes guys Joel dies because Joel kill a lot people to last 1!!!BB Joel welcome ABBY(NEGAN)
4046) One of the best games I have ever played. Emotions were everywhere.,,The gameplay was really tense and exciting and the last four hours of the game had me up until stupid o'clock.,,Brilliant. This, God of War and Uncharted 4 were nigh on perfect.
4047) Thoroughly engrossing dramatic narrative meticulously balanced with fluid gameplay mechanics and lush immersive visuals, score and ambient sound design. A plainly pinnacle achievement for the current console generation.
4048) This game enhances gameplay and story telling to levels never seen before. All that hate people give without even playing the game are just senseless, stupid people. I've completed the game recently, and it delivers to an awesome level. The ending a didn't like that much, I think the game should have ended a bit earlier and left the rest to a next episode. I'm however giving a ten, to overweight those stupid senseless zero reviews people are giving for the awesome work Naughty Dog has done in this masterpiece.
4049) An absolute graphically stunning Emotional roller coaster of a ride from start to finish, the acting devs and writers really made this game an absolute masterpiece Thank you to the naughty dog team and everyone involved.
4050) Amazing attention to detail, challenging gameplay and emotive story line that shows the bleak reality of life post infection. I don’t agree with all the decisions the main protagonists  make the but they are a product of their world and experiences, and the game is an amazing story telling saga.
4051) **** perfect. of the minuses, you can name only the gameplay in some moments.,it’s very cool that LGBT people were included in the game, I hope Ellie and Dina come together again
4052) It's a very polished game. Awesome graphics and gameplay. Story was good and intense. I liked Ellie in the beginning. Towards the end, I didn't like her anymore, but I started to like Abby. Interesting approach to tell that there's no typical good guy/bad guy in such a scenario. This game is a showcase of how important sound is. It ads the same amount to the imersion as the graphics. Could it had a bit more variety? Sure, but it delivers what was expected.
4053) This game was an experience for me, I am judging it based on the experience, the story, the gameplay and graphics. I enjoyed it for what it was, a story that (I did not create nor did I have anything to do with the creation. )Really great. Enjoy this for what  it is. A complete unbiased opinion
4054) The gameplay is rich and destroy all those not as good as the first one but is still left my expectation and to my opinion this game is a masterpiece
4055) The best game of the current generation and probably the best game ever made
4056) A gorgeous, perfectly written story about purpose, vengeance, loss and trauma. TLOU2 isn't for everyone, because if you stop coding homosexuality and/or mental illness and/or PTSD with literary devices such as "immune to the zombie virus" or "being a magical cursed chosen one" many get upset, but I suppose that's too bad for them, and it's not for them anyway - to quote Marty McFly - "your kids are going to love it". And, to put it less gently - pathetic incels like you deserve not enjoying this fantastic game, pathetic incels like you deserve no pleasure whatsoever - only a hell of tearful outrage and whinging, forever.,,As for the rest - it is not mechanically all too different from TLOU, maybe even too much like it (with silly shivs still coming back), but it plays great, sounds great and looks incredible. The graphics, set-pieces and design are awe-inspiring, the actors are fantastic. It is a 10/10, truly.,,Still, the story is probably make or break for most, and for me it was outstanding.
4057) Very important life lesson from Naughty Dog! An absolute masterpiece, that's why I love games!
4058) Amazing!!!!!! Now I do not know how long I will have to wait to find another video game that gives me this level of  satisfaction.
4059) The Last of Us Part 2 is the finishing touch that both its history and the console itself deserve. A perfect game in all its aspects, with a story that captures you from the first moment and with unforgettable characters. Essential.
4060) Masterpiece!! Absolutely stunning! 10/10. The last of us part 1 and part 2 would always have a special place in my heart. Part 2 is for me at this moment game of the year. It deserves all the hype and the praise from the people. Story telling, graphics, gameplay, soundtrack gives you the chills. It’s absolutely perfect. I got lots of mixed feelings playing this game, it’s such an emotional ride. Definitely it’s a dark game for dark times, but in my opinion no one can miss this adventure. Full recommended, and again 10/10!!
4061) "Eye for eye and the world will go blind",The last of us Part 2 is a masterpiece of Naughty Dog, it's risky and surprising in every detail, the graphic section is one of the best in recent years, excelling with the performances of each character which reach a new level of realism , also from around the world, and the best thing, we have working mirrors, all this accompanied by a brilliant motion capture,The sound is not far behind, the screaming, the shooting and every sound in the game is surprising and admirable,The Last of Us was made by its story and narrative, and this sequel is not far behind, delivering one of the best narratives in recent times, an incredible character development that puts us in context of the story and serves to Fond and understand them, and most importantly, humanizes them, I mean that you aren't the typical guy killing a zombies without receiving any damage, in this game, our characters are in constant danger and we see that they can suffer,The narrative is again the strong point of this sequel, the way of telling the story is so different and so original that, even though at first it may not completely convince you, as you play the only thing you do is understand and put yourself in the shoes who you control,A thread of events that perhaps if they were told differently, the game would not have worked.,An ending that leaves you melancholic that even if your heart breaks it is so real to what the thirst for revenge can cause,The game has some incredible action scenes, photographically speaking it's a visual wonder, the colors and lights are well controlled and go according to the story and the landscapes are beautiful and varied,All this accompanied by an incredible soundtrack that at times will make you feel melancholic at times and at others that will make you believe that there is still hope in such a world, since the musical themes are like a ring finger in incredible sequences and others dramatic scenes, but the game also knows when not to put anything in the background, as in a fight that is vibrant for EVERYTHING mentioned so far,Without a doubt a work that will play with your heart and that in the end makes you reflect and gives you a lesson with the main character,Without a doubt a more than worthy sequel for its predecessor,,SPOILERS,Without a doubt the only mistake of the game, is the death of Joel, he had to die in a way faithful to his character, I mean, that in the first game He would never have trusted someone he just met regardless of the circumstances, and here he gives him the name within a few minutes, in addition to being one of the best PlayStation characters, they must have made him a farewell, a scene or a monologue of the characters at the end of the game, something like a letter to Ellie talking to her or a scene from him with a good musical background that will bring us one more tear, a scene that I hope to see in a potential third and final installment,The end of the game where Ellie forgives Abby is a more than convincing solution for this game, just think about it, there are three very clear reasons, the first and is that the cycle of revenge would never have ended, because Lev would go after Ellie, and Dinna would go after Lev in an endless cycle, the second is that Abby forgives Ellie twice and the second time she shouldn't do it, and the third is that he She realizes that she's doing the same things Abby did to Joel,Many people dom't empathize with Abby because they say that the way he kills Joel is inhumane, it is, but we have to understand that Joel condemned humanity, although of course we still don't know this when he dies and that is why that we hated Abby at the time, but in a world without rules Abby was only taking revenge, or Didn't we enjoy torturing Nora?, because we still don't know why they killed Joel, all this narrative thread is so good because it makes us realize how bad each of us is and that we never put ourselves in the other's situation. We aren't interested in why, but we already act accordingly. One of the best narratives in history,Even though in the end the fact that Ellie could no longer play the guitar because of losing your fingers is so heartbreaking, it becomes a great example of how the game gives a lesson because this accompanied by the fact that the whole house is empty makes you realize of Ellie's mistake and it's just fascinating how we tell it.,I would love a DLC of Ellie going to see Dinna because it's something very sad even though it also serves as a lesson that we can lose everything if we become obsessed with something.,I would love to o see Ellie happy after all of this, since Abby is on the menu.,A third part is necessary to give a great closure to this great saga, as long as the quality of its games is maintained in addition, a trilogy has always sounded poetic, would be a great way to conclude with one of the best stories that history has given us, not video games, but art in general
4062) Its the best game i played, its a revolution of feelings and idk, i love this game with all my heart.
4063) Easy 10 out of 10.,Best graphics on PS4 without a doubt. Best sound desing and one of the best OST ever in a game. Perfect gameplay, control response and desing of level with clever exploration. New skills basef on the agility of the new characters, great AI in highger difficulties.,Great narrative, you can love or hate the story but the way that its taled its really good and tried themes that few games has treated before. TloUP2 its a new level in story telling on gaming without a doubt and its survival and gameplay make it one of the best pieces of software ever made for me.
4064) The game is awesome. The graphics are the best of this generation and which is absolutely incredible. The story is not as good as the first game but still very immersive. The combat resembles the first game but you have a lot more ammunition to get hid of the enemies. Totally a must play game.
4065) I can feel the emoticón everytime and the new form yo fight is amazing!!! New enemies, new friend, new grups is a perfect combination.,I love it.
4066) This game just kept breaking my heart over and over. It’s incredibly sad. It’s brutal. It goes places that almost no stories are willing to go. And even though it hurts, I can’t help but love it. Game play was solid. Graphics were absolutely stunning from the scenery to the characters and their animations. Music captured and conveyed the mood everywhere. Sound design was perfect. I don’t understand all the review bombing at all. Absolute masterpiece. This story is going to stick with me for a long time.
4067) Don't listen to the haters, they're shallow minded.,Just because you didn't want it to start or end the way that you wanted it too and in my case I would describe as an open book. The gameplay and visuals are phenomenal and will go down as one of the best games ever made.
4068) Beautiful game! Surely one of the most impactful video game experiences I've had.,The story hits deep, and even though it caused me the most pain I've felt in a while, I enjoyed it more than I can describe.,Thank you Naughty Dog, for delivering this beautiful, heart wretching game. It will stay with me for a long while.
4069) I can see where a lot of people might hate on this game but IMO, it’s an incredible story. So much pain and emotion in this story. Absolutely incredible
4070) I understand people not being happy with the story. Not my case though, I'm happy with what they did, it makes you think a lot and see everybody's point of view.
4071) A technical marvel. Stunning graphics, sound design, atmosphere, fluid exciting gameplay mechanics. And then the story is so unique and gripping and just incredibly written and performed. It’s also hugely relevant in our divided times. The story makes players walk in the shoes of the enemy and see the story from multiple perspectives building empathy. It’s a tough sell in a world where everybody’s entrenched in their factions - whether they think PC culture or voting for Trump is the end of civilisation, nobody seems able to consider that the person who believes something that you don’t agree with might hold those views with the best of intentions. I’ve seen anti-woke dunderheads and hardline progressive loons both go after this game hard for different reasons, when it’s offering a lesson that they both could do with listening to.,It’s a little unwieldy in places and maybe doesn’t nail absolutely everything due to its staggering ambition. But I’ve never experienced a story quite like it, one that is truly heightened by the interactivity. The game is a straight up masterpiece.,And in a way it’s probably better that many people don’t agree. Many people choose to eat McDonalds. But they shouldn’t resent people for wanting something a bit more sophisticated.
4072) Story is not as great as the first game but it's far from beeing bad. It's really all over the place and I was actually surprised to have liked Abby and her parts in this game that much. Gameplay is way better than the first game and you have a lot of options to approach every situation. All in all I think it is an amazing game and people shouldn't piss on it without evan playing it.
4073) Heavily criticized game for the fact that it isn’t strong male characters but strong female characters. The sexist universe is not accepting strong women but they want overly sexualized women.,The story has a unique manipulation ability that makes you like the killer of your favorite character.,The gameplay a little repititive but the game is overall great.
4074) The Last of Us Part 2 is one of the best video games I've ever played. Wow, I did not expect to be saying those words. For one, I was only not a huge fan of the first game. I actively disliked the combat and stealth gameplay in the first game, even though I loved its story and world building and characters. The sequel, however, improves on almost every single aspect of the original game. It may be an evolution and not a revolution but everything is polished to perfection in a way that boggles the mind. The sequel made me care about the characters and the world in a new way. And it improves upon the stealth and combat so that it now is really fun to play, whereas I was really struggling to enjoy myself with the first game. The incredible sense of freedom in the stealth and combat scenarios allows for endless fun and variety. The visual presentation is stunning and the world is rich in life and detail. The ruined Seattle is an absolute joy to explore. The calm and beauteous moments complement the dark moments. The audio soundscape is perfect for ambiance and emotion. The story is epic and sprawling yet also focused and tight and perfect. I played the game on the highest difficulty "Survivor" (not recommended for the first playthrough, the game warns!) and that heightened the tension in a way that only made the game better for me. The fear of constant death and the brutality of those deaths, combined with the ability to nearly instantly restart an encounter, made for a unique experience. In short, the game pushes the boundaries of interactive media by marrying one of the best narratives ever told with one of the best gameplay systems. An incredible game. 10/10
4075) Cannot believe the harsh reviews this game has got. Please don't listen to them it's as good as the first game. It's very different but it's as good, some seriously epic gameplay moments...some of the most memorable I've had. Story is great but not quite like the first but still amazing! My game of the year so far by far...this and rdr 2 are  probably games if the generation for me.
4076) One of the best pieces of media I've ever consumed/been part of. Never felt so many emotions conflicting with my thoughts. What ND has tried here is much beyond appreciation. Hats off. It was an experience I will never forget, Ellie's emotions mirrored with mine throughout, yet even after trying to hate Abby, I did end up understanding her motivations. The last sequence, felt so real and raw that it broke me down. Many complain that Joel's character has been disrespected and not seen through to justice. In my opinion it was poetic justice, a bittersweet end to the tale of Joel and Ellie. All the justice in a mere one sequence.,The game was never about Joel being the hero. It was about how in this world filled with loss and tragedy and hostility people do what's best for them or their allies, as there's no black or white in a situation and the majority of crux lies in the gray areas of morality which the characters justify by their actions. One such actions was taken by Joel in TLOU and he received it's price in this sequel. For me, he never really cared of what the world thinks of him, it was all about Ellie for him and the fact that she was ready to try to forgive was all he needed to find peace.,As for Ellie, I will say that there was some lack in her character arc, at times feeling a bit lost. but then again I feel Ellie was our channel of emotions throughout and ND succeeded in that. Great use of flashbacks to show a mirror of what was to what is.,Agreeably the story had some if not a lot of pacing issues, but that doesn't take away from the emotional rollercoaster throughout. It's almost disrespectful that a game that was such a technical marvel with stunning graphics, visuals, sound design and gameplay to go unnoticed, but that's the power punch the story carries. For that I'll say this if this is best of PS4 I am pumped for what the next generation has in store.,,I know there's a huge amount of backlash across the social media, but it's unjustified and people being people. In the end it is just a piece of media and art. If you don't relate or like it be respectful in disagreeing. angry rants don't justify anything. It's NDs story to tell like it or not deal with it.,,Props to the Voice Actors and shout out to everyone at ND for creating this masterpiece. Definitely a complete experience and a justified continuation and end of TLOU's story arc.
4077) Amazing game, some people are just too stupid to understand it. The whole world is centered around no one being safe, everyone butthurt about Joel can do one
4078) Genuinely outstanding. Amazing character development and story. Probably the technically best game I’ve ever played.
4079) I chose to wait a few days after finishing the game so I could process what I've played. and now I can tell you for sure that the last of us part II is a beautiful, sensitive, brutal and uncomfortable masterpiece (a positive discomfort I should say). I've never played anything like this. after the last scene, i felt a huge sensation that my life, my mind and the way I understand the world had changed. I feel so sorry that a certain injustice with ND are going on. They've made a great work with this game. maybe, people was just not prepared for the grandiosity of what was created
4080) Usually I don't post reviews about videogames but I'll make an exception for this one, just because I loved it and I don't feel it's fair people hating on this because some characters died or didn't die. The story might have some pacing issues but is still great, entertaining and enjoyable. The gameplay is awesome, the graphics are spectacular and the sound design is magnificent.
4081) In my opinion the most hard and the most beautiful game in 2020....................................................................................................................................................................................
4082) Wonderful story telling, courageous and brutal.... This is one of my favourite games, ranking up there in my top 10... Just finished it today after a few weeks of nipping away at the huge 30 hour gameplay, even more if you want to finish it on 100%... Not sure what all the hate is about as ive steered clear from leaks, spoilers and articles, but I'm impressed with the sheer magnitude of this game, and I'm sure you would too if you haven't been tainted already from all the vitriol and hate... Can't wait for the next installment...
4083) Any hate for this game is ludicrous and hilarious. If you want to play characters that reflect your insular and false sense of idealistic reality you may want to stick to fan fiction.
4084) I'd say I'm biased because I absolutely adored the first game, but clearly that's not the case because this game is getting some pretty nasty reviews from people who also loved the first one. I was beyond excited to see what The Last of Us Part II was going to be like from the moment the teaser trailer premiered in 2016, and I've played the first game countless times in preparation for the sequel which I was so excited for. After waiting seven years, tearing up with the physical disc in my hand, and playing through over 30 hours of the game and sitting through the entire credits sequence, I really cannot understand how anyone can realistically despise it as much as they do. Not only is it the most ambitious game Naughty Dog has made regarding just the "game" parts of it (graphics, gameplay, mechanics, etc.), but it is one of the most complex and intricately designed stories I have ever seen across any medium of entertainment. It's a story about love, hate, and loss, all in one. It makes you feel exactly what the characters are feeling, it forces you to see things from a different perspective, and it makes you reflect on not only the experience of playing it, but on yourself as well. I laughed, I cried, I felt intense rage, but simultaneously felt extreme empathy. Each and every plot point was carefully written and placed in a very distinct and entirely intentional spot, which makes it all the more impactful. The initial moment when Joel is killed by Abby is so painful and shocking that it left me at a loss for words, because that's what it was meant to do. If you were the slightest bit affected by Joel's death, then ND have successfully engaged you in the story. To judge a game simply off of this one event is so foolish that it baffles me, because honestly, there is so much more to the story than the death of a beloved character. It seems like nothing but a revenge plot at first, until it crosses the line quite a few times. Until you're forced to hit square while beating Nora to a bloody pulp, until you kill a dog, a pregnant woman, and the baby's father all within a few minutes/seconds of each other. Not only does Ellie question her resolve, but you as the player are forced to as well, and the second things start heating up, everything flips. The game forces you to walk in Abby's shoes, literally, and almost makes you start to like her. If you're anything like me, you reached the final conclusion regarding Abby that you could never forgive her, but you did learn to understand her and empathize with her, which I believe was the goal from the beginning. Lev and Yara are able to highlight those parts of Abby that make you wonder who the bad guy really is, and once Ellie leaves her picture perfect farmhouse family to pursue Abby again, that question is answered. Walking down the beach and reluctantly fighting as what can only be the shell of what once was Ellie, against the shell of what once was Abby, should be the moment you as a player realize that there is no good guy or bad guy. That's right about when Ellie decides to spare her life, and that was the moment that continues to stick with me weeks after my initial playthrough. As Ellie sits in the water crying, watching Abby and Lev leave in their boat, having lost everything, I as a player felt every emotion and couldn't help the tears from streaming down my face, too. That's when the game makes it even worse, and shows you just how much was lost when Joel died, because they shared a moment of attempted forgiveness the night before. At that point I already knew the game was a masterpiece, but as I watched Ellie set the guitar back down and walk away, it cemented that already obvious observation. This game is a work of art that people hate because it wasn't what they wanted or expected, which makes it all that much better. I didn't even know what to expect going into it, but it exceeded any and every expectation I had. I must give credit where credit is due, so a huge congratulations and thank you to every single person (and animal) that has worked on this game, including the actors/actresses, developers, animators, writers, directors, sound designers, and everyone else. You all created something beautiful from start to finish, which will stay with me and many other people for the rest of our lives. I look forward to the day that people will stop bandwagon hating this game and blindly making assumptions based on what they've heard, rather than the complete and true experience.
4085) Really great Story telling. A masterpiece of gaming. Great Story, great Gameplay, great Character.
4086) This game has a beautiful environment, gameplay, and story that i wish everyone would take the necessary time needed to fully appreciate. I just finished the game and sat in silence for 10 minutes and just watched the credits roll. Beautiful game and well done to everyone at naughty dog
4087) I liked the way that this game gave me feeling. I fell sad and hungry for the Joel's Death. I wanted the Revenge but at the end, when They show us like Ellie didn't want a Revenge, but she wanted Joel's forgiveness I fell so sad.,I hope they will do a third the last of us
4088) It’s really great game I’ve play this year! I enjoyed every moments!! Gameplay is amazing and Story is amazing!! It’s different from the first one but you need to get experience and know the story!! Well that’s my opinion! I hope you guy will enjoy and love every moments of it!!!
4089) Oh man some of these reviews are just so dumb. Seeing that the actress has received death threats is just so pathetic go get a life. For the game is a total new experience to play on both side of a story and seeing two different perspective. It's just really well done and make you think of what could be good can also be bad depending on which side you view it. Don't listen to angry peoples who think they know better... Seriously death threats over a game go get a life.
4090) I do not believe People who scored TLOU2 ridiculously low scores have even played the game. I had to register to post my review because these scores are a joke and are unjust. The story from start to finish had me hooked and I didn't want to put the controller down. Its 30+ hr game and it looks and sounds beautiful. The story is dark and disturbing with some truly gruesome moments and is an emotional roller coaster of a ride. I can see what people are complaining about but I don't see it as a problem and if more people gave it a chance I believe they wouldn't either. Yes you feel like a traitor and don't want to play as that character given what that character has done but you start to see the story through that characters perspective and their reasonings and i found myself becoming fond of the character. What an amazing ending sequence too. TLOU2 is truly a masterpiece and imo a worth successor.
4091) Best PS4 Exclusive Ever Will Wait For LOU3 & Abby Was The Most Amazing Character In The Game.
4092) Absolutely loved this game, it made incredibly brave choices to showcase an amazing dramatic story about how people can go to such dark places to the detriment of everyone else around them. The parallel between Ellie and Abby is done amazingly and only really apparent to the end. It’s incredibly refreshing to have more realised LGBTQ characters in gaming, and I hope that one day gaming becomes a bit more open in its views.
4093) The game is amazing. Disappointment is for Joel's widows. C'mon guys... This game has a nice gameplay and graphics how can you bomb a game just because of its plot? Seriously, how can you be so nonsense. I mean, there are very good things even if you dislike something about story. If you are reviewing this under than score 7, you really have serious problems.
4094) This game is has an amazing engaging story beginning to end with characters that we know and love and also new characters that we learn to love and appreciate in this harsh and unforgiving world of The Last of Us. This is one of the greatest story's on love and hate and how they parallel each other, and how far will you act revenge on the people that have harmed you the most and what dark and unforgiving roads that will lead you in.
4095) 'The Last of Us: Part II' definitely takes some risky narrative choices, in which in my opinion makes totally sense as the game progresses. Graphically it is one of the best looking game in this generation before the next consoles come out in Holiday 2020. Gameplay was so immersive and still maintain the “fun” factor as well as being brutal and nerve-wrecking. Overall, it’s a another masterpiece by Naughty Dog.
4096) I’m not sure why this game is getting so much hate? I thought it was a poetic masterpiece. Not to mention the incredible level of detail in the fighting mechanics, sound design and world. Seriously just as good of not better than the first one. Amazing job by the director and the naughty dog team. Don’t listen to these haters, they’re just mad Abby has bigger guns than them.
4097) If u have a mainstream brain don't play this, cus this game is not for basic people, they only hate. SO I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT IF U DONT PLAY THE GAME Y LOSE  A GOTY. DONT WASTE UR TIME WITH THE BAD CRITICS THEY DONT PLAY THE GAME AND SAY BAD ARGUMENTS ;)
4098) A title that tries to do something different is one we should support. Clearly the narrative is very divisive amongst fans, to me that screams success. This is a story that explores the cost of revenge. Thematically it alludes to the idea that helping others is what brings you peace. Sometimes those two things appear to be one and the same. This is called The Last of Us. Not The Happiest of Us. Joel was never a "good guy" and his death was a long time coming. He is a self admitted "hunter" and ultimately doomed the human race.
4099) A ONE OF A KIND EXPERIENCE from a Gamer Like me since the 90's, HELL OF A RIDE!, PHENOMENAL, THRILLING, EMOTIONAL, GRIPPING!, ABSOLUTELY **** MASTERPIECE!, I LOVE NAUGHTY DOG!
4100) The last of us part 2 a masterpiece of modern times, a great game with a deep history, that makes you think and rethink several times, about the world, the decisions we make and everything. Neil Druckmann was very bold in making a game that made him have several opinions and not just a cliché game in which we have a disney ending
4101) Honestly such a great game. I'm usually not a fan of either horror or shooters but this game has great gameplay and even better story and characters. Lots of twists and turns, far surpasses the first one.
4102) excellent game, story seen from another point of view, excellent gameplay, wonderful landscapes
4103) A very good game, it's just that the world isn't ready for this kind of storytelling in games. People often say they want games to evolve in terms of narrative and storytelling yet when developers try to change things up a bit, people despise it. But yeah, in my opinion this is a well written game and might even consider this a masterpiece. That's just my 2 cents in this game and people should definitely play it first before **** with the game for no reason.
4104) it is cool! I’v been waiting for it five years and it’s pretty good!!!!!!!!
4105) The game is visually stunning and the story is even better, the games story innovates video game storytelling with a original story that will twist your view of Good and evil.
4106) Phenomenal follow up to a game that never needed a sequel. A true test of empathy and innovative long form story telling interlaced with tensing gameplay.  Please play it for yourself and experience this work of art.  I have so much more to say but will reserve it for the sake of preserving the experience.
4107) Gameplay: 10,Graphics: 10,Story: 9,,A top contender for GOTY 2020.  What sets this game apart from everything else is its story which is of the calibre that classic literature belongs to.,,Our favorite characters from the first game are back: Joel, Ellie, Tommy, and his wife Maria.  The vastly talented Ashley Johnson and Troy Baker are back, and joined by the wonderful Laura Bailey, with an intricate, thoughtful story, full of allegory and metaphor, written by Neil Druckmann and Halley Gross.,,This is not a rehash of the same story from the first game.  Instead, it is a cautionary tale about revenge and its collateral damage, masterfully weaved between complex, interesting characters, that evokes comparisons to classic literature and film such as True Grit, Wuthering Heights, and Count of Monte Cristo.  In the end, you realize the game is less about revenge itself, and more about what it takes to move past, heal, and grow beyond an emotionally traumatic event.  This applies individually to multiple characters, not just for Ellie (the main character), and should be compared and contrasted against each other.,,The genre is clearly horror-tragedy, which has not been really seen in video games, especially the tragedy themes.  Many players will not be expecting nor used to interpreting the tragic themes that the story offers, and instead opt to calling it "depressing", which albeit true, is rather reductive and ignorant.  The Green Mile and the Titanic were film tragedies, but to disregard them as merely depressing films would be incorrect.,,My only criticisms for the story involve pacing issues in 2nd half (but prior to epilogue), and a romance scene that felt sudden and forced.  This is a long game, averaging 30 hours of game play to finish, with many storylines involving different characters.  If there ever was a "double album" for video games, that would be this game.,,All else, this is a complex, deep story that requires thinking and reflection to fully appreciate.  This is not Call of Duty or Super Mario Bros.  Players unwilling to reflect and analyze about the events of the story will fail to appreciate the story for its depth and breadth of the human condition.  They will argue about plot holes and ridiculous story.,,This is definitely a well crafted story that plays with one's emotions - creating anger, confusion, and conflict in the player at various points in the journey.  But it all makes sense when everything comes together in the end.,,9.6/10 rating from me.,,Beware of negative reviews that:,1) Say phrases such as "my day is ruined" - that phrase belongs in a therapy session, not an honest review,2) Make comparisons to Star Wars or comic book movies (reviewer is not well-read enough to think of more appropriate comparisons),3) Claims the game's story disrespects the player.,4) Attempt to make comparisons between Neil Druckmann and Hideo Kojima (senseless for a review to argue who is better),5) Uses transphobic meme comments such as "It's Ma'am" (not funny anymore guys),6) Alleges forced diversity of characters - completely false,7) Makes blanket statements about atrocious story without explaining why - present in nearly all negative reviews,8) Have bad grammar, spelling, and punctuation.,9) Written by individuals who obviously did not play the entire game.
4108) I think, and this is just my opinion, that a game that can make you feel all those emotions is worth game of the year, in my opinion game of the decade.,It still hurts that Joel died, and how it die, but thats the last of us world, a world where no one dies in a heroic way, its dark, its mean, and I love playing in that world.,If some day I would have the chance to meet Neil Druckman, I would thank him, not for giving me what I want, for giving me the best game I could ever play.,Sometimes, I open the game  just to play again the epilogue, to watch that emotional scene where joel and ellie have their last night conversation.,And finally, the graphics and gameolay are awsome, but the music, Oh man the music is fantastic, the music in this game is perfect, it makes you feel every second on the game.
4109) Amazing game, it is a masterpiece at all. I wouldn’t recommend this game who is looking for a “typical” ending. This game let think you about revenge meaning and sadness. Totally a 10/10
4110) Amazinggg Game, An impressive and perhaps dark game but I absolutely loved everything. For me who criticizes before I have even finished the game, he really doesn't know how to play. The story and its gameplay and landscapes are beautiful. Nice job
4111) Is very good, the history is fastastic but It has a lot of padding, the mechanics and the gameplay are amazing, the excellent graphics, I would say it would be the game of the year
4112) Excellent mechanics and graphics. The story don't try to be a fan service, and that was a breve movement by Naughty Dog.
4113) I'm still thinking about this game 24 hours after finishing it. The Last of Us Part II is not a feel good experience. It's a story about vengeance and hatred, and how both can spread like a virus. It's a story about how bitter hatred has dire consequences, both for the person or people on the receiving end, and for the afflicted. The game makes you understand that each enemy you kill might have friends and family of their own, any of whom might set out on their own quest for retribution the same way Ellie wages her war of vengeance against all who stand in her way.,,The game is absolutely jaw dropping visually, in every aspect, adding to the tone of beautiful desolation which perfectly complements the themes. The art team at Naughty Dog is clearly the best in the business, and they are not hiding that fact.,,The gameplay is top notch. The dynamic action-stealth combat system allows you to approach combat encounters in nearly unlimited ways, with each weapon at your disposal filling it's own unique niche in your arsenal. The game doesn't rate or punish you for breaking stealth, and in fact encourages a sort of "in-and-out" approach which allows you to mix up your approach as you see fit, going loud with firearms, arrows, and bombs, or sticking to the shadows and silently eliminating the enemy with brutal efficiency.
4114) This game is a WORK OF ART! It makes you think about what brings people to do what they do. It makes you realize that everybody has their own reasons to do what they do, and there’s no heroes or villains, just people living their lives and trying to survive. You gotta play it for understanding what I’m saying. YOU MUST PLAY IT!
4115) Pushes the industry forward in several ways. The story pushes back against the player just as much as the gameplay. The visuals were incredible and I was constantly blown away by small details in the environments, characters, objects - everything. Everything looks so realistic and lots of time has gone into grounding the player in the world. The gameplay has also become a lot more engaging since the first instalment. I found that the stealth gameplay was a lot more engaging as there is more to do, rather than just waiting and watching. The large variety of ways to engage people was also great, as I always felt there were interesting and varied ways to survive encounters. I played on the second hardest difficulty and really enjoyed it. I didn't use the listen mechanic at any point (as a personal challenged) and I didn't feel like I needed it. The sound design was so good that you could generally get a feel for where the enemies were and it increased the my enjoyment of each encounter - making things more tense. I also really enjoyed the story. The story isn't fan service - this game is clearly not about making people feel good. It is a thoughtful game that challenges you and your actions and this is something I enjoyed. Going into this game - I knew it would make me uncomfortable just like lots of top-tier art. To me, this is a strength of the game rather than a weakness. After loving the first game, I didn't feel like I needed another instalment. Even with that mindset, TLOU II surpassed my expectations in every way and left me extremely glad for having the experience. There is nothing else like it and I highly recommend it to any that wants to see the potential of video games realised in 2020.
4116) Nice review Bombing kids!!,People putting a zero like 2 hours after the game release wow nice job..,,I mean story line decisions had to be made by developers to make the players react but the game still amazing you cant put him a zero or you just say you don´t play it...i finished it twice and want more...The gameplay are good,a lot of naughty dogs details style like in every game of them,the combats are so crazy and realistic, the graphics brings PS4 Pro to its full potential...The game are just a Master piece like the first one...Just grow up people and stop trolling...Just think we only have games like this every 5 or 7 years...The true thing are just play it and dont listen the trolls...no regrets for sure!!
4117) The game was a great exercise of cognitive dissonance. Uncomfortable, but meaningful story.
4118) As you can see there is a lot of hate for the scenario but to be honest, it's a matter of perspective if you love this story or not. If you have finished the game and you didn't like the way things turned, then do some research why it ended like this. At the start I didn't like it neither, but after doing some research I changed my mind completely. There is a huge depth in the story that you can take it whatever you want based on your own personality. I personally haven't felt stronger emotions for a video game before. I will say it has one, if not the best story in any game I have ever played.,As of gameplay its the best from any other Naughty Dog game. Soundtrack is great too.,Where the game really shines (except the story) is the visuals. It has stunning environments, graphics and character design.,Voice acting and player animations are amazing too.,This game is a masterpiece in any way and It is a must play for PS4 owners.
4119) Stunning and amazing game. I have no idea why it's been hated so much. It's may be the best game in 2020.
4120) The graphics of this game are incredible! I was so captivated by the moving story and the intense fight scenes. Naughty Dog and all the cast did an excellent job on his game! I highly recommend! Currently on my 3rd play through. Still love it as much as the 1st. 10/10 would recommend.
4121) Strong, deep, emotional, dark, violent, obsessive, sad and powerful game. This is the best game i've played in my entire life, and ive played a lot lol. I honestly think this is way better than the first installment
4122) One of the best games I've played. Play it yourself and you'll never regret it. I love the LGBT theme of this game. Great graphics. Joel's death is shocking and memorable, just like Aerith's death in Final Fantasy VII. I'm glad it's the fastest selling game in PS4 history.
4123) Amazing game, made me have a lot a different emotions, one of the best that I ever played for sure!,Thank you Neil Druckmann, and all the cast, thank you Naughty Dog, thank you SONY.
4124) The last of us part 2 is amazing not as good as the first game but super close to it.
4125) I've been avoiding all news and reviews ever since its release. Haven't finished the game until July 2nd. Not sure these bombed reviews are real or fake, but I personally love it so much and I would not be hesitated to give it a 10.,Currently on my New Game+ and half way of platinum it.,BTW I'm happy to see the user score is slowly increasing. Probably because the gameplay is pretty lengthy so more and more gamers are finally able to complete it and are ready to give their real reviews towards the game.
4126) I would not have hoped for better, a game that keeps you in suspense and full of twists.  I loved everything, every scene, every character, every frame.  I only gave ten because I can't give more!
4127) After the part 1 I never thought that it is possible to create the same magic that naughty dog has once created. But, I was wrong and I am so happy to say this is an another masterpiece of a game that every person should expirience once in their live. I am still can't get over the game but definitely can't wait for part 3 as well. Naughty dog you deserve to be praised love Joel & Ellie no one in gaming history can come even close.
4128) A brilliant sequel. Does the original justice. The gameplay can feel a bit to linear at some points but the storyline and overall experience make up for this.
4129) this game is a true modern masterpiece and an instant classic - the best ps4 exclusive out there ❤
4130) The game takes turns some fans will be and are upset about. I am a die hard TLoU fan and one of those turns made me extremely upset, however, the story comes together into a cohesive, engaging, and thought provoking manner.  The game play builds a bit on the original.  Nothing revolutionary but nice enhancements, though lacking a bit in puzzles.  The acting is amazing as one would expect and gameplay is fun as well.  I don’t rate it as high as the original just yet, but I LOVED that game so much.  I’ll see where I’m at after a couple play throughs but that being said, this game is amazing. 9.8/10 2 weeks after completion.  Even my mom was in town for holidays and wanted to watch.
4131) I know lot's of people here are spreading hate for this game. But i feel that this is not a game this is the story of dark satisfied fellings.,:) Thank you.
4132) I loved the game, it’s a very good game, and the final it’s almost poetic. I really can’t understand why the people hate it, maybe they don’t understand the good stories with logic. But I loved that everything that happens have a sense in the game and the story. I loved it.
4133) This is a phenomenal game. I'm a grown man but this game made cry, made me smile, made me laugh.
4134) Probably the best game i have played. No other game has kept me from pushing buttons for fear of what that would do to characters ive gotten to know. A testament to the sofistication in the games' storytelling.
4135) I love it, the game have ups an downs, i didnt like the way the game tries to make you like the character abby, buy over all i love it.
4136) If you don't end up moved, truly hurt by this story, you haven't played it the way you should have. Every person that end up hating the game, saying it ruined the legacy of the last of us, makes it even more logical that this game is a pure success. The level of storytelling here is above anything ever done before. ND went all the way, without a flinch. They knew the user reviews will be divided. ND made it that way, by going through this hurtful story, you end up learning that Joel, our beloved Joel and all the **** up **** he did in his past, he had to pay for it. The payment is salty af, but Joel knew it. He lived as long as he could with his burden and remorse, even if as he said, " if somehow, the lord gave me a second chance, I'll do it all over again." The love he carried and still carry for his "adopted" daughter, Ellie, is the reason why he did all these things to the fireflies, we all know that, for those of us who've played the last of us. But we had never seen all the damage Joel made by saving Ellie. In TLOU part 2, we get to see all the damages it did to the fireflies and how it destroyed the hope they had to make a cure and save humanity. Joel and his selfish choice doomed us. But because in the last of us, we're playing Joel, we don't get mad at this. we're some sort like "well **** the world, Ellie prevails on everyone!". In some way, we all end up acting as jerks against our own humanity. And the last of us part 2 slaps that reality into our face after 7 years of waiting, of being okay with that selfish choice. 7 years of preparation to put us back in our place and to teach us that life isn't fancy even in a game, that our actions always have consequences and we all have personal responsibilities for them.,The magnificent overlay of Abby and Ellie's time line in Seattle creates a deep realism, as we flow and end up fighting against Ellie, as being Abby. As a game of the mouse and the cat. except we're playing both hunter.,ND went deeply into characters story realism and into Ellie's trauma, providing us some of the best representation of a feeling, the loss.,The whole game play is articulated around the loss, the wound that it left, the denial and the anger then the acceptance, letting go all the pain, to be left with a void to be filled. All this, not clearly showed, but it is all this story is about. Acceptance of the loss, and getting over the trauma. We all lost a loved one, Joel was a pillar to us, and his death as some of you though, was like a bus hitting us right in the face.,To avenge Joel, Ellie lost everything. She lost and best friend, Jesse, she lost her love, Dina and JJ, and she lost the ability to play guitar, a skill she learned through Joel, a bond she lost the moment Abby bite her fingers. But the last picture from the window with the moth carved in the guitar and Ellie walking away in the background, without looking back, is a blurry way to show us she keeps on going. Everything that happened, is over now. We'll see what's next in a maybe part 3.
4137) I honestly and truly believe that last of us part 2 is god damn story telling masterpiece. It is not a story about hate, it is a story about love conquering hate and in order to understand the game proper you have to play abbie’s side rational. If understand abbie’s story and what she has been through you truly understand what Naughty dog has been wanting to deliver. Please give it a rational and impartial try and don’t **** reviewers like Angryjoe. Thankyou.
4138) The last of us part 2 is a classic work of the times. This game story is very worthy of getting absolute points
4139) This game is so good that i had to create this account just to give a 10 and try to balance all the pointelss and fake zeros. No spoilers, just do yourself a favor and go play this game.
4140) Fascinating game, a wild ride of emotion all the ay through. I was on the edge of my seat the whole time. Not often do I play a game that I think about after playing it. Regardless of what people may say or spoil about the game this is a game you have to play yourself. Definitely a next level experience. A must play before we play the next gen consoles
4141) Loved it! Adrenaline pumping through the whole game, emotional roller coaster
4142) Please do not listen to the plethora of fake negative reviews that has been brought to this game play the game for yourself trust and value your own opinion.,If you have decided not to play this masterpiece based on other people's views and the fake reviews as previously mentioned then you are doing yourself a disservice.
4143) One of the most realistic games ever, you never know what's gonna happen. The graphics are top notch, gameplay is awesome and the story is amazing.
4144) This game is amazing in every way you can imagine. Thank you Naughtydog for this amazing game.
4145) The game is crazy but I have seen that people complain about several things (spoilers) the LGBT of the game, abby, ellie and dina are not over 20 basically they are hotter than nun in covento 2) the death of joel, here you have to be impartial joel osea if a person kills your father who was about to discover the cure for a disease that killed millions of people what would you do? 3) the end the end is normal I mean if you are going to get revenge on someone kill someone you consider father and she no longer has a father what you should do is remove the equivalent of what she took from you abby already had nothing at the end of the game Be it friends, family, nothing, and from your perspective it would have been better if they killed her, but Ellie did not think that instead, Ellie lost a lot, but if she had friends or even a family, in my opinion, would I recommend the game? If you are a person who does not like to kill their favorite characters and all that, do not play it and think that the vast majority of games will be like this, but if you are a person who likes the realistic and is impartial when playing a game. game if I recommend it to you and the game is very realistic piche that even scared the scope of video games
4146) I wanted to give 9,5,,Story 8/10,Game Design 9/10,Sound and Music 9/10 (needed more music, but they wanted tension),Character and Animation 10/10,UI 10/10,Level Design 10/10,,- 2nd Part was too long. Besides that it is a very good game. You need to truly understand the reasons for their story decisions.,,Pls dont give this game a 0 only because you have a small dick. You know what I want to say
4147) TLoU 2 is the most profound game experience up to date. Despite it's controversial acceptance within the gaming community it's a must-play for any person.
4148) I don't get people criticizing this game, wtf, im impressed about those ppl, this game is the NEW GENERATION GAME, nothing i ve ever played is even near this, faboulous gameplay, incredible and fantastic storytelling, gorgeous characters, this is almost the perfect game, the finale  made me almost cry, congrats again naughty dog, fantastic game from a fantastic game company
4149) Well, I passed The Last of Us II. I haven’t so much time and play 2h a day. In general, I liked the game.  Both in the plot and in the gameplay. But I thought that the game would be dedicated to Ellie, but in fact it turned out that half of the game had to be played for Abby.  It did not upset me much.  But the game did not become worse.  I recommend it to everyone. And definitely at the moment it is the best game of 2020 and the best exclusive Ps4.  Do not listen to people who say that the game is bad.  Most likely they did not grow up to her.  Or just didn’t play, but watched a video on YouTube.  Play it yourself, then you will feel the atmosphere. This is really awesome game. Oh 10/10
4150) Fantastic game, builds the world of the apocalypse much more, giving insight to how other groups have managed. Interesting new character story arches that tie in perfectly with the existing characters. This gives us a fantastic perspective of the consequences of our actions playing as Joel and Ellie, and showing that everyone we encounter has their own story to tell.
4151) This game is amazing. It does have its moments but plz do give this game a chance
4152) The Last of Us Part II - this is the best game in its genre.  She made me feel the whole spectrum of emotions - from fear to joy, from grief to forgiveness. This game will remain in my memory as a chic sequel to the equally chic first part.(Google Translate from Russion)
4153) It takes you for about 30-35 hours to finish the game (exploring, cutscenes, getting resources) and you need a second playthrough if you want the platinum. It’s pretty funny how the second it came out a lot of people started giving it 0/10 either way because of some characters decisions or fate. IMO, the game’s a masterpiece. Yes it doesn’t have the ending I would’ve wanted BUT it’s a realistic ending. The game puts you in the shoes of Ellie, of course we are gonna love and justify all of her actions because she’s someone we love and know, and then Abby, at first you dislike her so much but at the end you understand why she did all the things she did and you realize there’s no good or bad character. Why? Because if an outbreak like that happened, people would die, a lot of us would do anything to survive, some people would join groups, others would join cults, everyone has a reason to fight for, and if some stranger showed up outta nowhere and killed your friend/family member, or just someone you really cared about, you’d want revenge as Ellie did. I know I would. But you have to understand, your actions will have consequences and that is what this game is about. They all make different decisions and according to those decisions it’s how all characters end. Side note, people is hating on the game because of the trailer. Because Ellie and Dina are basically a couple. Bro it’s 2020, it’s fine if you don’t like that but at least respect it and don’t talk sh*t bout a great game because it has LGBTQ+ references. Basically that’s my review, if you’re reading this, thank you. If you wanna get the game but ain’t sure about it yet.. have you played the first one? If you haven’t then I highly suggest you get the first game first, play it as long as you want and then get the second game. Pay attention to everything, each character’s story, their decisions, do your best to find notes, artifacts etc, and oh, also play the Left Behind DLC so you can understand more about Ellie. I’m on my second playthrough of TLOU2 on moderate+ because I really wanna get the platinum trophy. Once I do, I’m gonna do a 3rd playthrough on survivor+ mode. (Hardest difficulty) and just focus on the story, no artifacts and stuff. I’ll just focus on surviving and let’s see how it goes. I can’t go without mentioning that Gustavo is a master with that guitar. Soundtrack is a maesterpiece. We don’t have an iconic theme song like on the first one, every song on the second one is basically based on the themes song. But every single song makes you feel the game even more, that’s why on my last playthrough I’ll play with headphones. I’m very excited to do so. To me, the game, is a 10/10. Not the ending I wanted BUT the one everyone “deserved” according to their actions. Also keep in mind game is about forgiving and what could happen if you don’t forgive people around you and take bad actions. Shoutout to all the people involved in the making of this game. Tlou and TLOU2 will forever be, my favorite games. Also if Cascina reads this (obviously won’t but shhh) you’re gorgeous as f*ck. If someday you decide to get married outta nowhere or you just wanna travel and make memories with some random guy, I’m the one you’re looking for. LOL. I’m out. Endure and Survive.,-d
4154) This game is not a Disney or Pixar movie.  Many people need that formula.  TLOU2 doesn't follow the formula that 90% of games follow.  We've played that game before, we've watched that movie before...  Thousands of times with different character names but the same format.   It breaks another common trend as it doesn't try to teach you morals so if you need your games and movies to validate your already existing beliefs, you'll be disappointed.  You might even be mad about it because it will disturb you.   But that's the beauty of it too.  Most games mediocre copycat, copy stamped formulas of the same thing over and over again.  Why?  Because of people that review low like this.  People need games to be a certain way that molds around their values and expectations instead of allowing themselves to delve into the mind of the artist.  And because of that, we end up with shelves of generic, safe games.  TLOU2 is nothing like that.,,They skip boundaries that most games wouldn't dare touch - and the result is leaving the player feeling a sense of loss.  This loss is a melting pot of contradictions and ideas.  It forces our eyes open to how conflicted the world is and how none of us can see the bigger picture.  Just like our real world today.  Everyone has ideas and are more concerned with being right than understanding the reality of how things actually are on all sides - so no progress can be made.,,In a way, I'm kind of glad it's divisive because then I won't see hundreds of new games that copy/paste the formula until it becomes beat like a dead horse  TLOU2 is delicate, brutal and way ahead of its time.  That time may never come though - because people want that copy paste formula that they know and love.  If you don't know what I'm talking about, watch any Marvel, Disney, Pixar movie and you'll find a predictable path that leads to making lots of money but the film is a rehash of the same thing.   TLOU2 has amazing gameplay elements but where I feel it shines greatest is the character study driven storyline.  It's a work of art if you can get beyond what you wanted to happen.  Plotwise, it's a deep character study that pulls you in a whirlwind in a way that no other game has.  Characters are overwhelmed in a post apocalyptic environment.  I don't want to give spoilers.  I played it all the way through and it isn't until the end of the game that everything comes together so well.  You definitely need to get through it all to understand what Naughty Dog did.,,Are people reasonably upset?  Sure.  Like I said, it's not for everyone.  There's games like Animal Crossing and Zelda that are much easier to take in than this one.  Naughty Dog did a fantastic job of making your a participant in this apocalyptic world by making choices that make you feel confused and shocked - I find it gripping.  But for those that have a darker side, or a need to try something fresh and innovative - you'll find this to be one of the best games recently made.
4155) This is the greatest strory ever told in video games. Story much deeper than in 1st game. This is GOTY 2020 and definitely one of the best games of all time. I do like: scenario, character design, environment design, art design, dialogues . Graphics: very good, but not best, graphic level is below “God of war” or “Horizon Zero Down”. I do not like: fantasy gun brands and process of craft and weapon making - this part may be more realistic.
4156) Great game! Love the story
4157) One of the best games of the generation, definitely a top 10. A story so relevant to our times about learning to forgive the other side and retain our humanity. A technical masterpiece in every aspect and enjoyable gameplay.
4158) An amazing yet gruelling and emotional experience like no other I've had before. The story, characters, design, graphics and gameplay are all incredible. A masterpiece.
4159) Best game I´ve ever played. Great Job Naughty Dog.Fantastic.Woooooooooooooow
4160) Still getting over the emotional rollercoaster. I loved every second of it. You just need to see past you own interest and start seeing the game for what it wants to convey. Awesome job. The fact that people got so mad made this perfectly clear. The only problem was that they were overestimating the emotional intelligence of the average male.
4161) A beautiful cinematic experience, a game about the cost of revenge and how the world is not fair. The music is excellent the gameplay is excellent the acting is excellent. A fantastic game and hopefully game of the year.
4162) one of the best games ever made,50 greatest video games of all time,The 30 best video games of the decade
4163) I've never played a game like the Last of Us II before.  I was so immersed in the story and in the characters, and I felt what Ellie was feeling in the game. I was happy when she was with Dina or in the museum with Joel, I was sad when she was grieving, and I was so reluctant to push square in certain situations such as when she confronted Abby. I think the Last of Us II has taken gaming to a new direction, and for that it gets a 10 from me.
4164) This game Left me so much desolation, but it no bad feeling. Great parting for PS4 holders.,Waiting for another ND masterpeace.
4165) Best game in 2020. Haters gonna hate. Thanks ND.,.........................................
4166) This game is amazing... beginning to end. Especially the 2nd half. It’s disgusting seeing these babies cry about a story all because they aren’t mentally mature enough to understand.
4167) Periodt this game is so good get into it yuh so like play dis came or you gon get rona and the haters gon hate the stiry is amazing
4168) As someone who loved the first one, I was stunned by Part 2 in the best ways. No, it doesn’t go in the direction I expected (or hoped) but I think it’s ludicrous to dismiss a story's quality because you don’t like what happened to your fave character (online fandom is the WORST in this regard). I’m sorry someone you wanted to have a happy ending died. That doesn’t mean it’s a bad story.,,Every creative choice in this game – the deaths, the violence, the structure, the player character changes – had a pretty obvious point about cycles of violence and revenge. It hinges, smartly, on the most controversial moment of the first game and how horrific acts for the "right" reasons still have consequences. The structure, also smartly, puts the revenge tale in the first half of the game, and then forces you to empathize with all the people you killed retroactively, knowing full well there’s nothing you can do to stop what’s coming. It forces you to examine of the actions of "heroes" critically which it seems some players just don't want to do.,,I think, ultimately, it probably belabored it’s central point a bit too much, but I was gripped and tense the entire time. It is a fantastic achievement, IMO.,,Gameplay is classic TLOU but polished, with dozens of tense encounters, a more fluid combat system and a surprising amount of action set pieces. Also was pleasantly surprised by the number of jump scares. Visually, I think this is certainly the best looking game of this generation, perhaps the best looking game ever made.
4169) To everyone saying that the story is bad. Incorrect, the narrative is bad. Get your head on straight. Joel is not a good person and wether you like it or not, he was eventually going to pay for his actions anyway. The world is still realistic enough that it still makes sense. Going out of your way to leave a bad review on a game that you clearly haven’t played all the way through is wrong. Now, I get that people are mad at the ending as well... And Abby. But to explain Abby, yes, I hate how you play nearly the rest of the game as her just as you were starting to have fun with Ellie. This is were the NARRATIVE is wrong, not the story. By shoving you in to play a character you hate, and making her seem likable, it’s hard to play that portion of the game. The only way they could have fixed this is by splitting the Ellie and Abby scenes up leading to them meeting up together. The next thing is that the ending is bad. It’s questionable and symbolic, yes, but not bad. I’m not saying it’s great either but there are some thing you need to realize. Symbolism is a big feature in this game. The moth (one of the key symbols) is to display how moths are attracted to light, which kills them, just how Ellie is attracted to revenge, it takes everything away from her, just as it also took Abby’s friends. But the symbolic ending isn’t that Ellie was trying to avenge Joel, she was trying to find peace instead, which is why she spares Abby when she forgives Joel (the last flashback). The ending also isn’t as sad as you may think. As many people have pointed out, Ellie has her bracelet that Dina gave her AFTER the fight with Abby at the end, but not when she left to go find her. All of Ellie’s stuff is also gone from the house except a few paintings and anything related to Joel. This is most likely to show that she is still with Dina in Jackson but has come to finally let Joel rest (leaving all of his stuff behind and his guitar). She does this by playing the first notes of Joel’s song, and then leaves into the woods. If I were to guess, a Part III would be a sort of redemption arc that will hopefully not make the same mistakes this game did. Final note, to touch on bs arguments, here:,LGBTQ-guys, it’s 2020, move on and get over it.,Abby has BIg aRmS-Really? What argument is that, it’s kinda sexist and I would suggest looking up the person they modeled Abby’s body for.,Politics-Sure, it makes the game bad, but it doesn’t. If you want politics, watch the first game. FEDRA vs FireFlies is the definition of politics.,Religion-I mean... ok?,Boring to play-there are difficulty settings...,,Closing note: this game isn’t bad but it’s not the best thing on the planet. If this game were to be for everyone’s expectations, it would be boring. It would make the entire game guessable if it was what somebody wants. Also, this game follows the same act story that the first game had. A person sets out on a journey to complete a task ultimately changing their mind in the end. I’m talking about the first game here, not the second.
4170) Great game. Amazing experience. Awesome gameplay,I was not expecting a quality of that in a game for this generation.
4171) The graphics absolutely breathtaking, I wish I had ps4 pro but nevermind it still looked beautiful
4172) I will keep it short.,,The Last of us Part 2 is easily one of the best 10 Games ive ever played in my life.,,The Gameplay is awesome. The stealth is fun, combat brutal and exploring the beautiful apocalyptic world just exciting. Its full of details.,,The game is absolutely elite when it comes to graphics, sound and animations. And all that on a 8 year old console.,,I like the story and the great written characters. All the 26 Hours i played were exciting.,,Guys. Dont listen to the People who hate it and the ones who overhype it extremely. Just play it and make your own opinion.,,For me a 10 out of 10. Simply a masterpiece.,,Thanks to all people at naughty dog for working so many hours. Put your heart and soul into this games. THANK YOU !
4173) Last of us part 2 deserve the best picture and the game of the year. This kind of game brings the media to another level. If you are looking of a super hero kind of story, just pass your way. The story is more complex and deep, and can make you think about the different perspective between what is good and evil, and what post-trauma can be. Thank you Naughty dog for making such a masterpiece
4174) Amazing gameplay with a great story. More than I ever expected and definitely has a reason to exist. Everyone who owns PlayStation it is a gamer needs to play this game.
4175) Emotional. This game is sensational from every point of view.  It is a mature game and needs mature users.
4176) These who rate this game low rates are idiots who even dont even played this game. Grow up kiddos.  (: its a masterpiece part 2. (: Waiting for part 3.
4177) Never have I experienced so much emotion from a single game. I started the journey with hate, but ending up feeling relieved. Yes, ellie didn’t get her revenge and yes Joel is forever gone. Yes I will continue to weep when I heard the song “if I were to lose you” and also yes I will always rethink about how I treated my loved ones when they are still here. It’s not a game about revenge, it’s a game about moving on and carrying with us our love, hate and trauma.
4178) The Last of Us Part II is a game that acts as a heartbreaking, but ultimately hopeful continuation of the first game. Many story concessions are made in order to create a narrative that challenges the player to reach deep down to empathize with actions and events that happen to characters that they might not agree with, but comes from a place of understanding. This is also a game that shares more with a show like The Leftovers rather than Part 1’s movie-like structure, such as The Road. I settled early on that the game works best when playing up to a critical cutscene, and then putting the controller down for the day, much like how I normally watch tv shows. This gives each section room to breathe on its own, and doesn’t make the game feel as overly long as I probably would have felt it I binged the whole game the day it came out. This may seem like me giving a pass for the game dragging itself out in order to pad run time, but I assure everyone that the game lends itself much better to an episodic format that the first game did, which came off as a story that worked better by playing in as few sittings as possible since the games story and characterization was condensed within a normal three act structure in a movie.   Characters are given a focus by the writers and trials to overcome that stacks like tetris blocks that rise high enough that when the straight block lands perfectly to clear the board it provides this insane sense of emotion and payoff for trusting the writers and sticking through the brutal drama that follows the events of the characters. The gameplay is greatly improved from the first game by trying to keep its formula of “arena fight, scavenge, explore and scavenge new areas, repeat” until you reach a cutscene to break it all up. Even though I can break down the formula for the gameplay, that doesn’t lend the right amount of credence the game deserves with how natural and well put together the arenas are, and the improvements to the A.I. which challenges you to continually move and plan on the go, as opposed to being able to easily take down enemies with silent kills on maps with flat terrain and easily identifiable cover points that the first game often had. If I had one criticism it would be that the exploration side of gameplay tends to drag on because it can only offer the same few tricks for players. Prone and jumping have been added, and while it may not be one of those features that sets the world on fire, it is used to its extent to try its hardest to diversify the discovery of items, but safes wear out their welcome by the middle of the game, and become a harsh necessity if you want any of the upgrades they house.  This game really does a fantastic job of evolving on not only the gameplay of the first game, but the story as well. The game really does wear its heart on its sleeve, and if you can let your guard down and trust the game and its story, you really won’t find a more emotional tale that can keep you engaged for 25+ hours and give you an emotionally satisfying conclusion.
4179) As someone who values powerful stories and realistically deep and complicated characters in videogames, above gameplay mechanics, this game is a masterpiece. The mechanics are incredible too, giving you vast amounts of options on dealing with combat. But above all, the story that's being told has to do with overcoming trauma, betrayal, and attempting to heal. And what happens to those who become blinded by vengeance. It's a very realistic journey Ellie goes on, and anytime you deal with this subject matter, sad and frustrating encounters will happen, such as people you care about deeply dying. This is the violent feral world that has been established in the first game, and many people who are upset by these very realistic consequences, aka  characters getting hurt or killed, are forgetting the world this game is set in. If you trust Neil Druckman and go along with the story that's being told, crying when s*** gets sad, raging when Ellie is rightly furious, falling in love when things get romantic and playful, it will only be a more powerful gaming experience. That's what is so good about The Last Of Us, how powerful it is, and this sequel knocks it out of the park. Plus it is the most gorgeous game I've ever seen. Please go in open-minded, and trust the storytelling, this game isn't about feeling good and having a rollicking good time, it's about the real human experience of living in the wasteland of the apocalypse told through Ellie's eyes, and they definitely 100% achieve that.
4180) I am very disappointed that many people rated this large-scale, ingenious and high-quality project too low for some childish and immature reasons.  Yes, I am an ordinary user and have also been waiting for the game for 7 long years.  My personal assessment is 10/10 and I recommend that everyone start the game from start to finish, not paying attention to such trifles as lesbian relationships, which by the way is not news.  Yes, the game is tough, but it is filled with non-trivial decisions by scriptwriters.  Yes, perhaps many were waiting for a different story, including me.  But this story will amaze you in the very heart, will not leave you indifferent and make you think.  The combination of violence, cruelty and wonderful emotionally touching moments is really brilliant.  Ellie has matured and the game has matured with her, no wonder.  Elegant graphics, atmosphere, elaboration of locations, directing, good old gameplay ... all this really adds up to one of the highest quality games of the generation.  What are all the little things for the development of which we so loved the first part or Uncharted series.  The plot - many call it a weak spot, but in fact it is very strong and multifaceted, it just needs to be understood and felt.  And frankly, such a plot gave me a lot more emotions than if it were trivial and kind.  Emotions are just what it's worth playing games for.
4181) most rates are because joel died and that elli didn't kill abby people s pay no attention to history and revenge and love.
4182) This was an amazing game. Don’t trust the trolls that bombed the score. It is a fantastic game.
4183) "Characters exist to serve the story." This is not a game that will make you happy, it is devastating, sad and heartbreaking ... and that's the point. A surprising and original way of telling a story, a brilliant sequel with a powerful message that is more relevant than ever today. The amount of hatred this project incites is the perfect example of this. A masterpiece.
4184) Brilliant game. So unfair it has been receiving so much hate from bigots and people who couldn't have completed the game on the first day. Maybe not a brilliant story as the first one, but definitely a good one with stunning moments. The graphics and gameplay are awesome.
4185) This game was deep and emotional. There were times where I, out loud, proclaimed that I didn't want to play, that what the game was going to have me do wasn't what I wanted. That I wanted to have my revenge, my way. But the story was so compelling that it pulled me forward, sometimes it tugged me forward in spite of my own resistance. This is what the game seeks to do. It seeks to be so compelling that you are driven to seek a resolution, even if you have to take an undesireable path to it. And, also as intended, the path is a challenging one. Not just in gameplay or for the character, but for the player. The challenge is in confronting anger, rage, and vengeance, however well warranted and to see the consequences and to feel the weight of irrevocable decisions, even when those decisions didn't have a viable alternative.,This game is about violence. And it is about pain. And it is about the loss of identity in giving yourself over to rage. If you are a STAN for characters over story you will probably not like this game, however beautifuly and impressively designed its imagery, graphics, details. This game is gorgeous. And with so few hiccups to execution that the most significant impact to my playthrough was my own obsessive compulsive need to conserve ammunition and to execute my tqctical plans as expertly and perfectly as possible - leading to many reloads when I as a player executed less than perfectly.,The game's sound design is atmospheric, and haunting and paranoia-inducing as much as the first Last of Us. The use of audio cues to indicate when your actions risked observation were downright anxiety provoking. The creature performances are absolutely frightening so much so that when stalkers become silent you the player become even more terrified and paranoid.,The gameplay, while a bit on rails as expected, does give you big open playgrounds at times which helps to alleviate the feeling of being constrained alkng a linear path hurtling towards conclusion, there truly are moments where you can stop to just appreciate the incredibly detailed environments. In my playthrough I encountered no technical glitches or game-breaking hard stops at all.  I never encountered a consumable or acquireable I could not pick up. I never got stuck in a wall or door. And the camera did a fantastic job of positioning itself intuitively.  While there wasn't a clear satsifying button push to lock you into the use of cover, the game does a WONDERFUL truly genre-defining job of having the character models KNOW when they are in proximity to a hard surfsce. There were times I didn't feel as in cover as I would have liked, and there is no mechanism for leaningx so often "peeking " involves actually exposing yourself to some degree, the game is actually very forgiving in this and I never felt like my choices were punished by some of the less precise tactical movements.,Gameplay choices are consistent with the original, included the still-baffling choice that at least one character has to manufacture shivs in order to have a stabbing weapon when, 20 years-on, a fightning knife should seem de rigeur for a post-apocalyptic infectious disease zombie outbreak. Improvements to melee weapons are often little more than aesthetic and their design for arguing that they have been improved continues to beg the question of "Really? How does duct tapping half a pruning shear to a lead pipe make it any more effective or sturdy?" - a mechanic I think could've been tossed, but again, not inconsistent for the series.,Characters... so much to say about characters and almost all of it spoilers. The characters give weight to the consequences of decisions that are made throughout the game. This game makes an extraordinarily bold choice - one that I think many of the fans giving negative reviews fail to connect with the original story, even though the parallel is clear.  The Last of Us does not have heroes. It isn't a game about heroes. Joel's actions at the end of The Last Of Us were heroic or villainous depending on your point of view, the same is true of Marlene. The post-apocalyptic nightmare world of cordyceps parasitism is a harsh world of survival and of violence and of killing. Often, as in the original, the most dangerous confrontations aren't with the creatures, they are with other survivors. The morality of confronting a kill-or-be-killed world where an act of vengeance can bring a living nightmare to life beyond the ever present fungal threat makes this game all too human. The most challenging thing about this game is that it asks us to confront ourselves. To allow ourselves to be taken to a point of raw emotional rage and pain and then to objectively see ourselves in the light of that for the monster in ourselves. By the end of the game I just wanted the violent cycle to end. I wanted there to be some future not bound by pain.,Naughty Dog CRUSHES it. They take you on a journey. And its lesson is humanity.,- Tim
4186) Unlike many, I played and realized that this is a very cool game and not deservedly understated by haters
4187) Truly epic experience. Definitely worth playing.  Don't let the haters deter you. Play this game and make your own decision.
4188) Game of the year surely. From the start till the finish had an amazing experience. Had few pacing issues but that didn't stop me from loving the game.
4189) A story unlike no other. It doesn’t come wrapped in a nice tied up ending or glossy sheen. It’s real, it’s dark, and it makes you feel...,If you don’t quite know how to feel at the end, this game did it’s job.
4190) Normally i would score this game a 8, but because of al the 0's given, i give it a 10. The game isn't perfect, the story isn't perfect, but the gameplay en the emotions that come with it are impressive. Some people are dissapointed and i get it, but the **** this game is getting is ridiculous.
4191) Great game. This game needs to be played deeply and slowly so you can really feel the expressions from the both characters.
4192) I'll start with the obvious, no game is perfect. But many people seem to be overly negative, and I think this game is definitely a 9.8,,To begin, I'd summarize this game to be the perfect sequel to what it meant, Joel's selfish deadly love act to keep Ellie.,You learn to see a story through your own eyes, if you know why you made a bad choice you can justify it. Sure you wouldn't want others to do it, but you were different. You had a good reason.,The game dives into this quite hard, and this will hit like a sledge hammer. Any writer should be proud to have written something so meaningful. Everything build together so wonderfully.,,Music was always linked to Joel, and by the end, Ellie has learned Joel's love, and his anger. Loosing her musical fingers severs her from music, now what that means exactly is up to yourself, to me it seems like it allows her to grief. But to you that may mean something different, and that's a great key of writing, the meaning depends on your experience. But it's a tough thing for sure to involve yourself in this story. My hat is off to the writers though.
4193) What a game. What an experience. This game is the best game I've ever played. I can't tell why people are hating this game and his ending. In my opinion this game is better than the first one.
4194) This is one of the best games out there today hands down. The second half of the game when you switch I absolutely loved this game and so did my whole family. This game became a family effect after the first 15 minutes.( had to pause some cutscenes and send the kids out a few times) As soon as I got home from work the family would start yelling for me to start the game so we could see what happens next Characters can really make you think about how you would have handled the actions of other people.  When I first started playing as the other character I was a little pissed and was wondering if this was naughty dogs way of making me feel bad for them.  After about an hour I was like **** it has worked” and I was starting to really like them. I grew emotionally attached to the side characters during the second half more than the first half.  After beating this game and getting the platinum in it I haven’t been able to play other games due to not being able to find a game that had the gameplay and story like this one did. With all the hate about the LGQBT stuff. Yes it is in there but it does not shove it down your throat.  It feels like it belongs and I felt it was done naturally and very well. Don’t listen to all the haters out there who have nothing better to do but try to trash a masterpiece due to their own ignorance.   I highly recommend this game and suggest everyone keeps playing during the second half.
4195) I like Joel.But I can understand the end he deserves in this game because of what he done. This game is phenomenal. The way of story telling influences your mind and gives you the  issue of what justice is.
4196) AMAZING GAME!,I love games with intense stories and this game has just joined my top 5 favorite games of all time, which includes the first game in the series.,Most of the negative criticism lies either in prejudice against a gay protagonist, or in the fact that in place of the characters, they would make some different choice. It doesn't change how amazing the game is.,If you like emotionally heavy stories, be sure to play this game! Notice whether they are positive or negative reviews, it is clear that the game provoked intense emotions in the players. In that sense, the game reached its goal.
4197) A masterpiece and a game worthy of being one of the last of the greats of the PS4 era. Recommend highly.
4198) For me, one of the most beautiful narrative stories ever lived. It is full of plot twists, and i love plot twists.
4199) In a media filled with rewarding endings, plot armors and overused utopian storylines, experiencing something so grounded, gut-wrenching, brutal and uncomfortable, where all actions have devastating consequences was a much needed change, kudos to the amazing storytelling.,I know people had many opinions about the story,,But if you play it through without a closed pre-mindset, you'll understand each side of the story, no one is safe and no one is big enough to escape the consequences of their actions.,Graphics and physics are no doubt state of the art, nothing short of a naughty dog game in 2020, with immense attention to detail that leaves you stunned after realizing a new detail.,Gameplay is quite immersive and very player driven, my friends are playing the game too and each one of us is having a different experience, from tactics and playing styles to even variable dialogues throughout the game.,It's guaranteed to keep you on the edge of your seat.
4200) I actually loved this game. The graphics are incredible and the gameplay is smooth. Besides this, I did actually enjoy the story. Though definitely darker than the first part, it deals with issues like trauma in a strong way. Playing as Abby also left quite an impact as it showed how a different perspective can make something that seemed black and white become a lot more complicated.
4201) Very challenging story but well worth the adventure! So glad it was enjoyable
4202) Awesome game. Game of the year. 2027 year - release The Last of Us: Parth 3
4203) Great game. 10/10. Dont let people just talk you out of it. People just saw 30 mins of leaks
4204) Hands down best game ever. The graphics are amazing & the story the story was so good . Sad I finished the game.
4205) The bad thing about a game like The last of us part II is that we will not know when we will play something like that again. A masterpiece and in a few years a cult game that everyone should try. The importance of not blaming anyone and if you change the perspective to assess the facts that led you to do such actions. A magnificent round 10.
4206) An amazing game with a unique and interesting story. It is clear the developers had a story they wanted to tell, and they pulled no punches. It's sophisticated, tackles modern issues and takes turns that no one expected. The gameplay is fairly similar to the original, but wider and more open.
4207) I was scared at first seeing the amount of negative publicity this game was getting. I've been a huge fan of this series since the first game came out and I have to say, this game is beautiful. The story telling is wonderful, while there were many surprises along the way, the ending of this game left me wanting more! JOB WELL DONE! Dont believe the negative comments you see online.
4208) It's one of the best games of the year the history is perfect how you can play as 2 characters is enjoying because you can understand better the history of abby and the people who says its a bad game they isn't buy only watch a video about the first hours and the end.
4209) i literally fell in love with this game. the ending is just stunning, I feel really bad about all the hate about TLOU2 :(
4210) This game is not entirely like the first, but a spectacular game in its own right.
4211) there is a difference between a bad story telling and a story you didn't like. It is perfect in all his aspects and everyone should play it.
4212) the game is game of the generation.  It makes you feel conflicting , uncomfortable feelings and shameful of what you have done .its not usual feeling for a video game and that's why its amazing. Gameplay is also class leading. It is simply the game of the generation.
4213) I wanted to hate Abby, but she didn’t kill because she was a bad guy. It was out of revenge. Abby and Ellie were on the same journey, just at different times. The part of me that loved Joel and Ellie wanted her to die, but the other part of me that could see her motivations, and how she evolved from that moment, made her one of my favorite characters. That’s not an easy feat to pull off, and her voice actor deserves so much credit for making me empathize with the character. Ellie and Abby also had different skill trees, which was a great way to make the gameplay fresh and different at the switch. Masterpiece.
4214) First of all, for anyone who hated this game deep down of their heart JUST because they read the leak or even worst because their favourite youtuber/streamer.. well i feel sorry because you cant make your own decision. Actually its 9/10 for me, I hated to play Abby at first especially how they cut Ellie story its just a bummer for me. Slowly i realized how the ND team want to make us seeing a different perspective, BUT still they failed to make me more care about Abby. in Abby scenario i played in rush and almost didnt enjoy it. especially how they make Abby stage are more linear than Elly. As a whole this game is not perfect game but i cant stop thinking about this game. i didnt readt about the leak, i got the leaked from my friends who pissboff about the LGBT and feminism, and i dont care. in the perfect world its not gonna happen anyway, also we already had Joel "hero moment" in the first game. ND put a big risk on this gam and Neil already told us it will divide us, and it worked! so what make thisbgame so good for me, i love how they potrayed Joel and Ellie relationship, they are not father and daughter they even cant say how much they love each other.  Gameplay and graphic is one of the best in this generation. This is a great game but i cant recommend it to every person unlike the first one.
4215) The game tells us a story full of action, horror and adventure, in a way which catches the player.,Naughty Dog made it this way with a special intention you must understand. The way you are confronted with Joels Killer while playing her is a really good way to give some controversials to think about and reflect. minus 2 points for killing Joel, and I think the third part in Santa Barbara could be a little more longer, equal to the Seattle Storys.
4216) The most mature game i've ever played. This is an art, so much emotions invested in storytelling, and i love all of it. Even so many negative reviews is just a mark of how much people was involved. This is a not just game that you can play to got some positive feelings, but a movie or something, that can give you different emotions, but in the end you'll be happy to take such ride.
4217) En engaging story that will keep you in the edge of your seat, as well as make you feel things that not many videogames can.,This game will test your empathy and moral compass. It does not aim to satisfy you like a Hollywood blockbuster, but tries to be more like a film and succeeds at it.,The gameplay is fast paced and stealth, with the occasional puzzles.,Similar games: Uncharted 4, The Last of Us, Detroit Become Human, Days Gone, The Last of Us.
4218) A Naughty Dog masterpiece, this game is so good, every part of the game is incredible, I was so imersive in the universe.
4219) Just a little ending explanation this game is a 10/10 this is a review in in of itself The hatred that Ellie feels for Abby is an externalized reflection of the hatred Ellie harbors for herself.,Why? Well Joel deeply hurt both Abby and Ellie in different ways and they both punished him for it.,Ellie hates Abby for torturing Joel to death, especially because she didn't get a chance to restore her relationship with Joel (but also I mean, obviously Abby killed the man she came to see as her father). This is a mirror to the fact that in a way, Ellie also tortured Joel. she did it for years in a different way, and I'd say in a way that was more painful for Joel. And that was by disconnecting from him.,She hates herself for torturing him like that and not restoring their relationship when there was still time. That's the real pain she has been trying to avoid facing during this entire revenge quest, she's like a drug addict using revenge to avoid dealing with those painful feelings of regret. This is the realization she has while she is drowning Abby when she has the flashback to the scene on the porch with Joel and chooses to spare Abby. She's not just forgiving Abby,,she's really most importantly forgiving herself and finally coming to terms with what happened between her and Joel.,I think her leaving his guitar to rest in the house and walking away is supposed to symbolically represent that she has forgiven Joel, made peace with what happened between them and is finally ready to move on and start a new life.,I hated the end at first but after much deliberation I think it's actually really poetic. People saying the game is just about "revenge is bad" I think have really missed the point. And the end isn’t “stupid”, imo.
4220) Great game and visuals. Great sequel just as good as the first good job naughty dog.
4221) While some will say the ending is disappointing, I have to disagree. I agreed at first, but after contemplation, the ending made total sense. This game requires a great deal of emotional maturity to properly understand, or else the core meaning is lost entirely. Everything about this game is beautiful and I cannot recommend it enough.
4222) Loved every step of it. Probably the biggest reason as to why it received so much backlash was because Joel died. Most players are used to the happy go lucky ending which spoils their perception because Naughty Dog wanted to portray reality of situations. That every action has a consequence. Joel saved Ellie but he took another's life. Ellie and Abby are much similar in terms of seeking revenge but Ellie did come out the 'better' person by forgiveness. Revenge is a toxic path to self destruction.
4223) Honestly one of the best games I’ve ever played. It’s a very complex game and some people are too stupid to be able to understand it
4224) Great game, complex and fearless with new goals, it's kind of hard to describe because it affects the emotional as a player and makes you hate the goal at certain times, this is complex.  The gameplay is better than ever, the moves.  are agile, which helps a lot in stealth and exchange and use of weapons. Amazing game
4225) Simply amazing! Don’t listen to haters that can’t accept different ways of storytelling. What we have here is a game that will leave a mark on you and it may linger for a while. Anything that leaves a mark is undoubtly impactful and that is just the goal of this game...,Complex story, characters and visceral gameplay makes “The Last of Us: Part 2” a worthy contender for Game of the year 2020.,Play, replay and tell your friends.
4226) Finally finished this great game and let me say it’s one of the best stories I’ve ever experienced. Ellie and Abby were great characters each with their own desires and drives. Both felt like the same person in what they went thru and how they coped with it. At the end I’m satisfied with ultimate outcome. I do still miss Joel but at least his memory lives on thru Ellie. He was good to her and at the end he did what any father would have done for his daughter. The story was amazing and the developers went outside the box to give us a fresh experience in the genre.
4227) Even though I don’t agree with all the decisions that the writer chose, I still think it’s a good game and it deserves a 10/10
4228) Absolute masterpiece, one of the best games ever played. The ending left me puzzled but at the same time amazed. Nothing more to add, wonderful.
4229) Best game of the year. Period. This is as close to a cinema experience you ever gonna get.
4230) The whole game is about forgiveness this was shown literally the last flashback of the game. Where Ellie and Joel talk and Ellie says that she would like to try to forgive him for making her life not mean something. This is why she spears Abby she is trying to forgive her for torturing Joel. I like people that understand why Abby isn’t the bad guy. One thing I can’t stand is people supporting Abby on her discussion on killing Joel.
4231) Neil Druckman you are amazing brave ingenious able to have the balls to bring us great games iscuros great stories not the same cliche and repetitive story the video game world needs more like your GREAT NEIL
4232) This game can amaze you with a deep plot, incredibly interesting and improved gameplay, which was in the first part, unexpected plot twists, etc.,There are few games with such a good plot that you can take apart for a very long time and find small important details both in the game mechanics itself and in the plot. I love the second part, as well as the first 10/10
4233) This game's writing is not for the weak minded.,I get all the hate it's getting but please to keep an open mind.,People wanted it to be like the 1st game but its different as said by Neil few years back.,At first I was too disappointed by the game's ending  but then I tried to understand the ethics of the game and now it makes perfect sense to me.,Although I hate Abby, she is a really well written character and I kinda respect Neil to take that step.,I can't give a perfect score i gave to the original but surely this is one of the best games "I" have ever played.
4234) Don't listen all the incels who gave 0 to a game which they haven't even played. This game is awesome, the highest point of this generation.
4235) This game is a masterpiece. Yes, I don't like many decisions which have been made to the plot and the fate of beloved characters. But if you can stand the pain to slaughter, to see people decay outwardly but also inwardly, you will enjoy this journey with lots of great written characters and their backgrounds, deep emotional moments, unbelievable beautiful and detailed graphics and an amazing soundtrack.,One more thing: play it until the end before you write a review. I read a lot of reviews and I have the feeling, that many of them were written just after 10 hours of gameplay... sad...
4236) This is for me simply the best piece of Videogame i have ever played in my life (starting with the first GameBoy) All the Genius stuff i think has already been written here.,,To all the haters and "there is an Agenda"-People:,,Just don't Play the game... ist up to you to miss one of the best Games ever made, im fine with this :-)
4237) This is an excellent game. Everything is a 10/10 for me. Abby is a great character. Ellie is great. It's alright they killed Joel. **** happens in a post-apocalyptic world.
4238) An amazing and challenging experience in storytelling that improves on the original in every way!
4239) Definitely people expected better story like part 1 and me too,but Nautghy Dog worked on this so hard and they also made a good story for showing the cruel world of The Last Of Us.
4240) As for me, one of the best if not the best game of this generation. Even if you didn’t like the plot, the technical part and the gameplay are excellent. How can I put this game 0 I don’t understand
4241) Game of the year excellent graphic story gameplay everything must have in PS4 Naughty Dog don't disappointed
4242) A masterpiece, people are to used to their ''heroes'' being immortal, but the last of us part 2 shows us how life can be cruel and hard, and this time we see things from a different perspective, if you are a mature and open minded person you can easily enjoy this game, otherwise stick to your marvel heroes game.
4243) What an absolute gaming masterpiece and narrative juggernaut.,,6 years in the making, the hype surrounding this game is an understatement. How would the developers create a game that’s supposed to be better than their beloved title before it? By taking you through a roller coaster journey of emotions, that is.,,The gameplay is tight all throughout, and every encounter whether it’s against the zombie horde or the plague called humans is absolutely visceral. The tension is palpable in every way, and I think we have the advanced AI programming to thank for the realism offered by this game that only a handful of games can come close to. Each enemy didn’t have its usual programming and their movements are erratic, pushing players to create tactical mistakes and missing their shots more often than your usual third person shooters. The inclusion of dogs didn’t help either, not to mention that the enemy sightlines seem to be infinite most of the time, just like how it is in real life, getting alerted by an unknown watcher whose location you couldn’t pinpoint because listening for noise at that distance is impossible. The addition of verticality by enabling the protagonist to go prone and climb almost all obstacles gave it another level of complexity that enhances the palpability of the game’s encounters and level design.,,The graphics and sound design are absolutely stunning, breathing life into every object and environment, more than any game before it in the PS4. Virtual rain that feels heavy as you stalk through the ruins of a city, the piercing shriek of a far off undead filling you with dread and anticipation, the gurgling of blood from an enemy whose throat I just slit, the small notes on every whiteboard, all the blood stains and scratches on the walls, every crack and crevice, the bantering and background chatter, the ethnic details and emotion on each and every person’s face… all of these are minute but important details that bring the player into the ruined world of the game’s protagonists that I’m more than glad to participate in. I can’t state enough how stunningly beautiful this game is in every possible way.,,So given these praises, why is it being review-bombed by people in Metacritic and other critic sites?,,It’s because of the story. The story is polarizing to a lot of players, and I can see why. But damn, they are missing out. Don’t ever trust these user critics’ aggregated scores. In my opinion, they are babies who continue to be anchored to their expectations based on the previous game that causes their appreciation for the narrative direction of the sequel to sink. The release of the leaks didn't help either on how the story was meant for its intended audience, since there was no context as to why or how things are. So, I'll just say it: the leaks are, unfortunately, partly true, but it isn't the whole story and the leaks are a disservice to the experience of the player. If you've read the leaks, believe me when I say, open your mind and give this a shot. It's an experience worth your time and money.,,TL;DR: Play the game. The story is AMAZING. A narrative force of nature that touches on love lost, the price of vengeance, and moral worth. Absolutely amazing. Couple that with the most breathtaking visuals, heart piercing sound design, challenging and extremely tight gameplay, and you’ve got yourself an absolute masterpiece. What a way for the PS4 to go.
4244) Great game! I loved the storyline and gameplay. Violent, polemic, immersing and epic.
4245) It is an 8/10 game. But I submit 10 for a fair rating on this site, don't listen to haters.
4246) Every step you take in this beautiful world it’s just so satisfying to see and hear, every corner of any scenario it’s just perfect, you need to have an open mind to understand and feel the history as Naughty Dog want you to do it, for me this game is a masterpiece.
4247) I would score the game 9/10, however I have completely different view on the game. I think the strongest point of TLOU2 is the story, and ability to understand two sides of conflict. On another hand I did not like the graphic and repetitive stealth killing. Wazzup!
4248) Great music,Great graphics,Awesome gameplay and level design,Bloody and sad story,Really wonderful
4249) Best thing I've ever played (20 years playing experience, including old BioWare and Interplay titles)
4250) Thanks to the developers for this game.  worthy continuation of the first part.  amazing graphics and gameplay.  great soundtracks.  as in the first part, we observe the formation of characters, interweaving of fates, changes in worldview.  I liked it very much.
4251) Beautiful game, we can felling this game, the history is amazing. Magnific!
4252) No words for this game, the story, the graphics, the sound track are incredible. Naughty dog made the best game for PS4 for me, and the best game I’ve ever played in my life. It’s rather different than the first one, a different experience. I hope everyone played the first game before come here to say, cause both games are connected, you need to understand what happend on the first game than play the second, all the time you can find references about the last of us 1. I loved, and i hope i can see a sequence in future.
4253) Pushing the medium forward with its ambitious narrative and structure, The Last of Us Part II is a crown jewel of this console generation. The discussion which erupted on Metacritic shows exactly how impactful the game is. It is a must play for everyone that can handle violence on screen. It is not joyful, it is not a celebration of violence. Where other games simply make you feel powerful and realise YOUR fantasies, this one makes you feel as somebody else. For me it 10/10, simply put a masterpiece.
4254) the plot is not for everyone.  but the game itself is really very good. game mechanics are very good.  there are a few things added to the first page view
4255) Best game ever made by sony :) loved it from start to finish :) the leaks were true but I dont knoe after actually playing it it was great :) game does have many flaws tho the way they told that story was stupid and rushed in my opinion this game should have been about abby only that would be better for her character :)
4256) Excelente story, show the other side that you never had a thought about. Playing with abbey is very good
4257) One of the best games I've ever played. Do not listen to prejudiced people who rated the game zero as soon as the game released. I never give ranks, but I felt I owe it to this game for the emotions it put me through for 35 hours.,,Give it a chance. Story wise it is just not the same game as part one, great one nonetheless
4258) An amazing, moving, unforgiving experience. Less like playing a video gaming, more like reading The Road. If you're looking for empty fun that won't require anything of you, this isn't the one. Otherwise, it's absolutely a must-play.
4259) The games is very incredible, nice graphics, gameplay and history, Ellie if personality most cativante.
4260) Great game. It has everithing we had in the part one but improved. Gameplay, graphics, exploration... specially the script showing as many perspectives as possible.
4261) As much as this game hurt to play. I truly think it tops the original. The hate this game is getting kinda dumb
4262) Wow. I was very impressed with the follow up to the great game last of us. I feared that I wouldn´t like the game, but I was very impressed with the final outcome. The game takes bold but brave risks that I really appreciate, the style of story telling was very interesting a really caught me off guard at times. The level of character development has not stepped down at all from the first game, all of them had their interesting stories and resolutions with satisfying endings. I can´t wait to play this again and dig deep into the story to find new things I missed at first. Great game, great resolution and great ending. And yes the graphics, voice acting and all the other things are top notch. 10/10 would recommend.
4263) An excellent game, with great graphics, perfect gameplay, a very engaging and exciting story !!!,A game worth having on the shelf and I play it again again !!
4264) This game was absolutely amazing people complaining but this game has some of the best twists and turns ever. Playing as Abby made me sympathise with her even tho i hated her it was just amazing. And the story was pretty good it wasnt the best but it was good and i just loved the game.
4265) The gameplay of my life! Those annimations!! Graphics and detail to everything! Besides the crap that happened i got the message of the game. I remember when i play the last of us part 1 everybody sympathise the protagonists.  Including me. But i knew joel was not stable at all.. I remember when joel wanted tommy to take ellie and go to fireflies. Joel did knew that inside him was evolving feelings shouldn't have to about ellie cause she wasn't his kid. Bit then! Ellie chose him instead of Tommy cause she (as everybody) need someone who cares. And she felt joel cares.. But the wrong way.
4266) If you want to play a game where the man save the woman, go play mario bross.,Is stupid to be upset with the fact of have female protagonists, uncharted its almost a male saga and nobody cares..
4267) one of the best games in this generation. people just need to grow up with the industry and be ready for these types of stories. huge respects to Neil Druckmann
4268) I registered just to review this. It's absolutely incredible, an utter masterpiece in storytelling. If you love the first....then it's a must
4269) Best NaughtyDogs gameplay. Twisted story lines. New enemy. Today is best graphic.
4270) Perfect in all possible ways.,Very deep and intense story.,Gameplay fantastic.
4271) Fantastic game, beautiful graphics, excellent gameplay, engaging story, if you liked TLoU I you should give it a try, it is a much more ambitious and refined game
4272) I love this game I Love you naughty dog you guys are so smart this games deserve to be game of the year the new things you can do in this game is rly good and I like the new character designs and I also spot dose Easter eggs it’s a rly good game the more you play the more you understand it give it a try trust me
4273) (no spoilers) The amount of polarization this game is creating is fine, people are allowed to love or hate things. After playing fully through this game, the story is definitely overall a different in tone from similar blockbuster titles these days. For me, I loved where they took the story and every other part of the game.,,Gameplay wise, the game is fantastic too. Fights are challenging but rewarding, and there is no one solution to approaching enemies. You can be very creative with how you get past each area. I would recommend playing this on Survivor difficulty. Although several parts can be very challenging, this difficulty pushes you to utilize all tools at your disposal and think outside the box. One specific mechanic that I love is the ability to make enemies turn on each other and sneak through the chaos that you unleashed. This is especially useful if you want to preserve supplies for a later fight. Compared to the gameplay of the first game, it feels like they refined everything that worked before, and added many new great mechanics as well.,,Characters are fantastic. There is no way to properly describe why I loved the characters in this game without spoiling major parts of the plot, but overall all characters in this are dynamic, complex and easy to empathize with. I don't agree with the backlash people are giving about not making Joel's character 'true to who he was in the first game', and I urge people who feel that way to play the game FULLY through if they haven't.,,Story, like the characters cannot be best described without spoiling things, so all I will say is that it is NOT The Last of Us 1 at all. It is very different. I loved how Naughty Dog told it. I feel that everything that happened within the story made sense with the actions of the characters, nothing happened "for no reason". Actions have consequences and that is a major theme in TLOU2. I understand why people are upset going into this game and expecting a similar tone to TLOU1, but Naughty Dog chose to do something very different, and you may love it you may not. You can give the story the best chance it can have by erasing any expectations going into it.,,Finally graphics. They are stunning. Watch some gameplay, it just looks great. Not much more to say there.
4274) This was easily one of the best video games I have ever played in my entire life, and I made an account just so I can say that. I cannot even fathom those who are claiming the game has a terrible story with poor and/or uninteresting character development. Many people's problems stem from a certain event that happens in the game's prologue, and it's a shame that they are unable to overcome their disdain to give the rest of the game serious consideration. The Last of Us Part II is an incredibly sad, incredibly beautiful game with very profound messages about vengeance, forgiveness, and learning to understand others. Many reviewers are trying to generalize the entire 30 hour experience as just "revenge and violence are bad," but it is so much more than that. The storytelling is absolutely phenomenal and left me more emotionally impacted than any other game I've played--including The Last of Us 1. Additionally, the gameplay builds on the solid formula from its predecessor and remains engaging, tense, and brutal. Whoever may be reading this that is on the fence about playing this game because of its poor user score, I am begging you to give it a try. Ignore everything you hear and create your own opinion--I went in having read nothing and had an amazing experience. Just keep an open mind and consider what Naughty Dog is doing with this game. Every little thing is intentional and they all come together to create a soul-crushing cinematic story.
4275) A lot of people won’t get how clever this game is but that’s okay, some masterpieces are not understood by the majority.,Sometimes the enemy you hate is a direct reflection of the person you become when filled with hate.,No spoilers: this game is everything the original was but better in every way. It plays with your heart until you can take no more and then make you dig deep to reflect on mankind and their relationships with war, hate, bigotry, racism etc.,The subtle details in this game left me in awe at every turn from enemies calling out the names of their fallen comrades to the graphical detail in all the scenes. Spoiler or not it doesn’t matter. This is a journey everyone should experience. A true evolution in how a game can tell a story with hidden subplots that ask you to think about every action you take. Play this game with an open mind and you’ll probably never play anything like it again. It’s just terrific!
4276) Its not a perfect game but is far to be a bad game. The hate is unffair....
4277) The world is absolutely stunning with one of the best AIs for enemies I have ever seen, and honestly I LOVE the unusually raw and realistic take in such a common genre. I also have to say I grew to love Abby and her story, as much as she was built to be hated, she is clearly as memorable a character as Joel and Ellie. Definitely recommended.
4278) Excellent sequel. Picks up well from the first, the characters develop in interesting but natural ways. Few minor glitches here and there but you really play these games for the story and it isn't affected. Really hope they make a Part 3. Ignore the bad reviews, they're just from 12-year-olds who haven't played it.
4279) Weird how many people jumped to rate this game so low within a day of the release . Goes to show you didnt play it or didnt complete it .,This game was gripping and a fantastic game. Just because some dick spoiled Joel's death doesnt overshadow how good of a game it is. Cant wait to jump back in on a new game plus and play again. I liked how they showed you both sides of the different factions. Playing and seeing Abbys story really shed some light on what other factions were also going through. . 10/10!
4280) Masterpiece. Really made me look at the characters not just as zombie killers who are surviving the apocalypse but as fully fleshed out human beings with motives and feelings of their owns. Environment is on a whole nother level. Fun mechanics and they really reward exploration. Had a blast, shed some tears, and really enjoyed every minute
4281) This entry enhances and expands the world we met back in 2013. Here's a not-so-popular opinion, but I really enjoyed the story. The characters have a real motivation to continue their journey, no matter how much you or I think about acting differently in their places. For those characters, their reasons are valid. To say that the story is garbage because a favorite character dies? Or that the end doesn't make sense because the character's priorities change? It is a story to be enjoyed without waiting for a happy ending. After all, it is a post-apocalyptic world, where being alive is already a victory.,,Pros:,- In technical aspects, the game brings the state of the art within the capabilities of the PS4. Graphics, animations, sound (effects and music), all first class.,- Solid duration (I finished in more than 43 hours, but I play very slowly),- Each playable character has its own, customizable arsenal.,- Various possibilities for personalizing the experience in the options menu. Many accessibility features.,,Cons:,- I missed a greater variety in the fighting. For example, we almost always face a team of soldiers or a group of infected people. Hence, we have no incentive to vary the tactics to face them. We rarely have to face soldiers and infected at the same time, for example.,- There is a lack of a way to track collectibles while playing.
4282) The Last of Us Part ll - My Review,The last of us 2 isn’t a masterpiece, but it also isn’t a 5.1 game (metacritic user score). The last of us 2 has many moments that don’t mean much and have almost no deeper meaning, many of the things in the game happen because the writers wanted to “shock” the person playing it, which isn’t necessarily a bad thing, but when used so many times makes it less shocking and more repetitive and exhausting. I hated playing as Abby, not because she killed Joel or anything like that, I actually liked her character a lot, but because the way the story is told makes it very irritating. *Spoilers* : when Abby kills Jesse and is about to kill tommy, the only thing I wanted to know was “WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN NEXT?”, but the game then switches to Abby in Seattle Day 1, and we go almost until the end of the game playing as her. When we finally come to the scene where she might kill tommy and Ellie, the “hype” to it was almost completely lost, and it could have had more impact if they didn’t wait so long to show what happened (but that’s a very personal complaint I have, and many people might not have been bothered by it).,The Last of us 2 challenges the player to forgive. When Joel is killed by Abby all we want is to revenge him, and we believe we’ll never forgive her for doing what she did, but as the story goes, the game makes us play as her and understand her side, understand that she isn’t just an villain, which we later learn that she actually isn’t, and challenges us to forgive her. At the end of the day, The last of us 2 isn’t about revenge, it’s about Ellie’s grief, and how she deals with it. This game has challenged us to incorporate, understand and it has brought many important themes to the table. I can’t convince anyone that the game is good, because that’s my personal take on it, but I can assure anyone reading this that this isn’t a 4.8 game, and that it was very courageous of Naughty Dog to try something few games/tv shows/movies have tried before. I’ve seen many complaints about the game saying “bUt It’s A rEVeNgE sToRy, eLliE sHouLd haVe kiLled AbBy”, and I’ve got some things to tell those people: Abby did suffer, she lost all of her friends for what she did to Ellie and Joel, and I must say, being alive and having to deal with all of this is much harder than just getting killed. Second of all, if until the end of the game, after you’ve been on Abbys shoes, you still wanted her dead, then you might have won the game, but you didn’t win the mental debate Naughty Dog offered you. I’m not saying how anyone should feel about the game, I’m just saying what I believe were the intentions of Neil Druckmann (and company) while developing the game. I give The last of us 2 a 8/10, but since people are roasting the game and giving it 0 or 1 /10, I must go against that flow and give it a 10/10. It is a very divisive game, but it isn’t a bad one, and even if you didn’t like it, you must admit it isn’t a bad game.,I congratulate Naughty Dog, not for making “a masterpiece”, but for their effort on trying once again bring something new to the table.,Sincerely,,A TLOU fan
4283) As a fan of the first game I have to say that it was way beyond my expectations. It is not the story I would like to see, but it is an extraordinary one, and a must game experience. This is my game of the year and a great way to complete the arc which I fell in love with back in 2013. The Last of Us universe is a cruel one, and it always take the best parts of ourselves.
4284) Just finished the game and this was one of the most impactful games ever. Story really doesn't shy away from taking tremendous risks but in the end it pays off. Gameplay is all around improved, there is too much variety to it and every encounter left me satisfied as heck! This game is a must get. Dont judge the game by watching it, do yourself a favor and experience this hella fun(and dark) but mostly very impactful ride.
4285) This game is awful. Everything about this game is bad, Avoid this game at all cost.
4286) Naughty Dog manages once again to craft an unrivaled story, both mature and very emotional. Forget all the noise around this game and experience it for yourself.
4287) Honestly exactly the game type everyone wanted!!! I’ve seen it online for years wanting a game where the good person becomes the bad
4288) There are 2 reasons for not liking this game 1) you are a spoiled baby who can't handle death,2) you are a bigoted right wing snow flake who can't handle same sex relationships.,Seriously this game is an absolute masterpiece. Game play, story, the descent of brutality. Hats off to Naughty Dog. It breaks my heart to see people **** on this absolute work of art just because they are either bigots or babies (bigoted babies?)
4289) Absolutely breathtaking. There is a lot of polarizing opinion about this game but maybe that shows just how well this was executed. To get that kind of raw, emotional response so immediately from so many people, they must have done something right. Please try this game out and come to your own conclusions. For me it was a worthy and thought provoking sequel.
4290) Absolutely perfect, tragically perfect to be honest, the storytelling is amazing, I felt hate and compassion so intensely that I need a time to process everything, absolutely perfect!
4291) this game brings you the most amazing experience i've ever had the pleasure of playing
4292) Amazing game, amazing story, amazing graphics. I know that there were some upsets for people, but i have to say that this game was briliant. It had some flaws in length and such but it was beautifully told and this game really played into morally grey. People need to compare Joel and Abby, instead of Ellie and Abby, however.
4293) Solid game that does not disappoint. Combat is flawless and lets you be creative every time (New Game+ makes it even better) Storytelling is very daring and pulls it off (just look at all the negative reviews based on plot alone) I will not add spoilers because of that, just know that the point is to get a genuine reaction and it executes it. Do yourself a favor, ignore the reviews that call out the story (most likely none of them have made it passed the halfway mark to begin with) and play for yourself. In my opinion storytelling is the next innovation in video games and Naughty Dog is leading the charge.
4294) Amazing game. They couldn't have nailed it any other way. It was a roller coaster I'm still not over 2 weeks after finishing.
4295) Fantastic game that challenges your assumptions about video games as an art form. Still can't stop thinking about it a week after completion.
4296) The best PS4 Game, the amazing story and graphics, The Last Of Us Part 2 is the best Console exclusive game of all time, the Storyline and the charaters is amazing, This game is better of The Last of Us 2
4297) An intense, amazing adventure that will have you on the edge of your seat. Combat feels familiar in all the right ways. The story is devastating and impactful, and will leave a lasting impression.
4298) 10/10 - A masterpiece in storytelling. This game is about pain, grief and suffering and what the complex characters do when faced with those emotions. This game is also about compassion and forgiveness. All wrapped up in a beautiful, intuitive and engaging packaging. I really don’t get how the story flew over so many people. Y’all need to play it again, you didn’t get it and that’s okay.
4299) This is the best game for ever,This is not a game This is about humans,Thanks sony and nighty dog
4300) Every single moment playing this game is tense, I came in with high expectations and wasn't disappointed. I'm constantly being surprised by the level of detail, the character development, the story, and its pure beauty. Its tense, tragic, beautify, and mesmerizing. I love this world so much. I can't wait to play it again.
4301) Seriously great, emotional story and awesome climax Stop listening to some idiots saying it's shoving propaganda or something, it's a story about hate revenge told masterfully by Naughty Dog
4302) One of the best games I played in my whole life.,The story is incredibly immersive, and the graphics are outstanding.,The enemies' animations are very realistic. TLOU II brings the game industry to another level.,In my opinion, until now, is the best game of the year!
4303) One of the best experiences I ever had in video games. It's simply incredible, and I really hope that the people who doesn't enjoyed the game give it a second chance with other perspective.
4304) Best game of 2020. Better make an appointment with your therapist though....
4305) I already explained in my youtube channel why I believe in giving this game a 10, you may disagree with me and that is fine, but I have the right to give this game what I think it deserves, and for me is a solid 10.
4306) Best game ever!!!!,I absolutely cannot understand why the game is rated so badly.  I don't understand why so many fans want a new story.  I think the story is perfect as it is.  Naughty Dog has continued the series as it was, always with blatant turns and difficult decisions.  Why change history if only a handful of people don't like it?,You should just stop taking yourself too seriously.  The real fans would just be happy with the story.
4307) This game is a milestone in gaming history - in terms of story, atmosphere, graphics, game mechanics and morality. The game kept what was good in pt1 and it optimized what was not-yet-perfect in pt1. The result is amazing. The Controls, weapons and KI is really overwhelming. The graphics is absolutely outstanding, never have seen anything like that on a PS4pro. And the story is breathtaking and extremely disturbing, and it feels so hardcore 'real' and 'uncandied'. By slipping into the role of Ellie AND Abby the experience gets so much more valuable. And after all, i still love the sad story of Ellie and Joel. And i love the lovestory of Ellie and Dina. Breaking with (bad) standards is controversal, but it makes this game the first of a new era! Best story ever. Best game ever.
4308) The absolute best game I played in years, people who can't get over the story just weren't ready for what this game promises: discomfort, grief, sadness, and overall existential questions and empathy. You get to feel what living in a post-zombie apocalypse feels like never before and that is due to the genius of naughty dog's narrative structure. Get in if you are ready for a disturbing experience that will change your vision of life forever. Not for the faint-hearted.
4309) The game is a master piece despite what review bombers say, they story is understandably conflicting and probably make you angry at certain points of the game. But what people fail to see is that exactly what it's meant to do, make you feel angry, upset etc. What I took away from this game is one there is always two side to a story, and probably more importantly actions have consequences and the first two hours of the game show you the action you took in the last game could and probably will catch up to you and the theme stays present through out the game all the way into the final act. The gameplay is second to non and is for me the best game I have played in along time regardless if the story, but then again what to you expect from a  naughty dog game
4310) Even tho' the Abby part can be kinda boring it's still an amazing game. You should try it.
4311) The Last of Us Part II is a masterpiece and y'all forgot naughty dog's idea. TLOU2 is a game about hate, revenge, the hate cycle and people. Y'all defend that idea that Joel is a hero, but he actually isn't, even in Ellie's story he isn't a hero. He murdered a lot of people and stopped the Fireflies find a cure. Soon or later, someone could search for him to do a revenge, and this was what happened. Joel is the hero only in his story. Abby did a revenge but she lose too. Abby's Father, Yara, Owen, Mel, Manny were murdered, she lost WLF, she and Lev were kidnapped, they starved and were left to die. Ellie lost two fingers, Jesse died, she got PSTD, left Dina and JJ because she's so tortured with Joel's death that she "NEEDS" search for revenge, she couldn't forget herself for be beaten by Abby. Ellie broke this cycle of hate and finished her revenge when she realizes that she lost everything she loved, realizes this is self-destructing and she needs to forgive, then the game ends showing that she's trying now. Every revenge has your costs, every story has your side, but in the end they all become stuck in revenge and then the cycle hate begins. Everyone killing, stealing, doing whatever they want for revenge. Naughty Dog showed that to us, they showed up the consequences, the story sides and why revenge is useless and we shouldn't do this, because we lose everything that we love at the end. They teached us how we should let it go and forgive people. And it's obvious that a story about hate doesn't have a happy ending, as I said, TLOU was about love and TLOU2 hate.,,Also, people are hating TLOU2 because of LGBTQ+ characters. Ellie always was a lesbian, her relationship with Dina it's so well constructed. Lev being trans kid it's so adorable (I want so BAD protect this kid). LGBTQ+ persons (or characters) DO exist and you have to accept that. We don't live at the 80s anymore, we're free to love and be who we are (except if who you are include hating others just for being who they are, confuse? I know lmao).,,Thanks Naughty Dog for the amazing game.
4312) One of the best experiences in videogames since the first tlou came out. With a complicated and immersive story that will make you takea moment and think about what would you do if you were in Ellis's shoes.
4313) Great game. The first thought on the first completion is "let's do it again"
4314) One of the best games I played in my life. It's raw, gruesome, and hell it's sad. It's cruel to the point that reviewers are giving hate to the game because they didn't expect things to go so wrong in our journey through the story. But it's valid and it's incredible. Technically the game is perfect and the gameplay is addicting. I feel they could have gone a bit more creative in the puzzles and changing safelocks for wardrobes with keys for example. Dodging is a bit cheap. But you will die a lot, ohh you will
4315) Best game ever of time. I never felt so involved with a story, that theater scene made me feel so nervous
4316) This is their story, not yours. Simple as that. Everyone is trying to suggest how the story should have been and how it should have ended but it isn't yours to tell. The world they live in is unforgiving and does not give chances to say goodbyes all the time and anyone could die at any moment, including the main characters which gives it the aspect of realism and logic to be honest. Even if I hated what happened to Joel, it still made sense that 25 years of his life after the outbreak was full of killings and murders that surely had to come back around somehow.,,As the story goes, I found it to be very sensible for me. Again, no one is safe in that world and every action will have its consequences and that's why I get it, especially when I was introduced to the full story and the different perspective of the tale and letting me understand why exactly what happened has happened. Even though my feelings changed from the first scenes and the last ones towards certain characters, I was satisfied all the way and I couldn't see a different ending that will make sense.,,But what was annoying for me a little bit is the pacing and going back and forth in the story which made me pay less attention to the order of the story.,,As for the game play, visuals & graphics, voice acting, motion capture, soundtracks, sound design, level design and the littlest of the details; all I can say that they are all 10/10 and really one of the best graphics and sounds I have ever seen and heard in a video game so far. Game play was so fun and intense at the same time especially the stealth.,,Thank you Naught Dog for that masterpiece.
4317) The best game in the world!!! i don’t wanna waste my time to explaning the obvius... Just give a chance to video game industry show your full potential!!!
4318) The game is very good. Of course, when I found out that I need to play as Abby I was furious. It was disguisting. But then I've made an effort and played till the end. And now I can say that the game is very good, and story too, and characters, even Abby...
4319) I finished my first playthrough yesterday and I think, I just finished the best game ever made.,This game is exactly the way a videogame for adults should look like because ...,We all know the graphics and performance are unreached and show how much work and passion Naughty Dog has put into this.,About the story ... I don't get it guys. I don't undetstand how any of you could hate this story. Its authentic, its intense and emotional and here is why ...,Some people say Ellie changed in a way many fans didn't like. Okay .... how would you turn out dealing with all this **** ? Growing up in a QZ ruled by violence and corruption ? Losing your first love ? Be overwhelmed with this situation about her immunity ? Seeing people getting killed daily and finally watching the only person dying who ever has been a Dad for her ? How could Ellie still be that girl who's joking and laughing ?,Same with Abby ... when I saw her killing Joel, I was shocked like every single person. But I knew there has to be more. Something must've happened years ago ... I gave her that chance, like everybody should do even in real life. You dont know what that person have been through, who she lost. In the end there was no difference between these two women. They were broken, they were hurt so badly ...,And how the writers of this journey told this story was unlike anything else.,As more I played with Abby, the more I liked her, because she cared, she loved, she even showed mercy to the girl who killed all of her friends ... With Abby they made a great character who I'd love to see in another game someday ...,So I'd like to thank everyone involved in making this game. Thanks to Neil Druckmann, thanks to the actors, especially Ashley Johnson, who did another outstanding job with Ellie. Thanks to everyone who gave this game a chance and enjoyed it as much as I did. This is a 10/10 wether you like it or not ....
4320) The gameplay has improved massively, I like the fact alot of the areas are seemingly unpolluted as it makes you more cautious than being constantly bombarded with enemies.,Story's so far is good too.
4321) Your ability to like this game will hinge on your ability to empathize with the character Abby. The game is asking a lot of you, to set aside your anger and frustration, and try to forgive. And if you can't do that, then you will not have a good time. Which, brilliantly, is exactly what both Ellie and Abby go through in the game.,This feels like a leap forward in storytelling. And not just video game stories, I mean storytelling as a tradition. It's something that's never been done before. It was a huge risk for Naughty Dog to take, and for those who can appreciate it, it's a true masterpiece.,It explores so many themes; the cycle of violence, empathy, inherited pain, while also drawing parallels between the different characters and storylines. But what takes it over the top, is that it brings in the player, forcing you to grapple with the same emotions that the characters are feeling.,It's an experience that I'll likely never forget, and fans will be talking about for years and years to come.
4322) It took a few days to think it over, but in the end I really enjoyed the game. I can understand the negative feelings people have about this game, because it takes an open mind to fully appreciate what the game did. Perspective matters, and this game forces you to look at things in a different light, and it is unsettling. If you are not open to having your views changed or at least challenged, you will probably not like this game. However, if you are willing to hear the game out, have your opinions challenged, and understand how the perspective of the first game influenced your opinions, then I think you will really enjoy this rollercoaster of a game.
4323) It's soooo cool and amazing game! I love it. !!!!!!!!!
4324) It's a beatiful game. The graphics are awesome and gameplay are perfect!,People are hating the game just because they don't like the story.,The story could have been different, but it doesn't justify all the hatred. It was money well spent.
4325) This game exploits your cognitive dissonance and I love that.  Animations a great, brutal violence is great.  Different levels of the story revealed as you play through a second time and the difficulty options they provide you on that second Playthru are great. Physics are great.  I know a lot of people don’t agree with me and because I love the game so much debating about it brings another level to why i like it so much.
4326) Best game ever , the story was great,I really Enjoy the last of us part II .
4327) The game is a masterpiece, I traditionally play Xbox games. I have a PS4 for their amazing exclusives. This games story continues where the last one finished. The consequences of Joel’s action have come back to haunt him. His relationship with Elle is under threat, as well as his own life. The twist and turns are a great new angle for a game to go. Do not read the negatives try the game for your self. Make your own mind up.
4328) This is clearly Naughty Dog's best game. It has astounding environmental design, sound, graphics, and also gameplay. Considering the story, I cannot imagine a better ending and story than this, if we accept the early death of Joel. the storytelling made me realize feel each and every death that I did during the game. The way it made me feel that both Abby and Ellie are doing the same thing and losing everyone they love was so sad yet real and breathtaking. There is no game in the entire history in which you will fight that antagonist and change that character to the protagonist at the same time. I truly believe that Ellie didn't deserve this ending because she lost everything. But the thing that matters is that she chose to do this and that was the right thing to do. In conclusion, the story is top-notch yet sad and painful. But I really enjoyed it because it gave me something new that I had never experienced. Moreover, the whole story had consistency regardless of the pace. So, I can understand why everyone is hating this game, but everything inside it is authentic. Thank you Naughty Dog for this amazing Sequel.,,P.S: Many people are complaining about the repetitive gameplay that has not been enhanced from the first game. I completely disagree as I believe the main idea of the gameplay is the same but it generates an entirely new experience if you fully explore the world. For example, during the encounters when you are fighting WLF or Seraphites, There are at least 10 or 20 strategies to go through the level,and you will be bored if you face the game with the strategies from the first game. There are lots of strategies and combat sequences that are unique and you have probably missed it because of your approach. For example, one of the best combat sequences was when you were under the trucks and headshot the enemies and they find you and there is a great animation in that combat. There are lots of these in the game, which will make the game a unique experience for every player.
4329) Its the Game Of The Year i can't believe i such played this phenomenal game. Its story, gameplay and graphics are amazing Some people will not like this game's story but in my opinion its the best story for some reasons. Totally a masterpiece
4330) This game is perfect, people who thinks the game sucks are trash. I played it on Hard for the first time without aim lock and it is not hard at all if you actually use your kit and surroundings the right way.,And story wise OMG sooo goood like what is people talking about? I HATED ABBY so much. I was mad that I had to play with her (like everyone else Im sure) but the more you play her, you get to love her. She went through so much worse than Ellie. Like dude: Joel kills her dad (who actually asked for it when he said “Im not gonna let you take her”), Abby gets revenge and kills Joel and lets Ellie live. Ellie doesn’t even know the real reason at this point and goes and kill everybody on Abbys friends list. She killed Owen! I don’t understand how that is not enough.,I love Ellie and Joel, everything bad they did was for love but they are definitely the villains if you actually see it from Abbys perspective. Also keep in mind Joel killed Marlene, which I don’t think Ellie knows yet.,People are mad because Ellie didn’t kill Abby at the end. Hello! Did you forget Abby spared Ellie twice? Now they are kinda even.,I hope Ellie and Abby become friends in the end!
4331) Extrordinary attention to every single aspect of the game. Story, gameplay, characters, photography, audio and graphics.
4332) What a wonderful game... Not gonna lie, though, I wish things had gone differently for Joel, and Ellie. Oh, how I wish that. But that doesn't mean I don't like the story. Or that I have to hate it, because of everything that happens; like a lot of people seem to do. At the end of the day, I understand the story. And if people would open their minds to, at least, understand it, as well, they'd also see how amazing is this game.
4333) Absolutely briliant game, I have never played anything like this before. I loved everything especially the characters. The story is brilliant in my opinion.
4334) The Last of Us Part 2 is my new favorite PS4 game and stacks up very close to Last of Us Part 1, the graphics are phenomenal, the story keeps you interested, the world is immersive, the acting is top notch, the gameplay is fun, the exploration is expanded. I highly recommend this game and it is a must play.
4335) The best combination of movie and game. Outstanding graphics, motion capture, and fantastic human story. I finished it today, and the I thin my head is spinning. This is one of the best games I ever played.
4336) Best way to define it is a roller coaster of emotions, takes you to a journey that makes you wonder if you're doing the right thing. There's enough material to go further and make more content.
4337) In a lot of the criticism I read of Part II, I see a lot of people saying that the ending should’ve involved Ellie killing Abby, or a choice for the player whether to do so. In my opinion, either of these endings would’ve fundamentally gone against what I believe the writers’ intentions were in telling the story the way it was told, and undermined the entirety of the rest of the game.,,This game is about forgiveness. Everything that happens in the game culminates in the moment Ellie remembers Joel on the porch as she’s holding Abby underwater, in the same way that everything in the first game culminates in Ellie final ‘okay’. For me, when Ellie chooses not to go through with the vengeance, it was like a pressure relief valve was finally opened, releasing all the tension the game had built up between Ellie and Joel, Ellie and Abby, and Ellie and herself. In that small moment, Ellie finally opened herself up to at least the possibility of forgiving Joel for what he did to her (which we explore through the flashbacks), of forgiving Abby for what she did to Joel (which the game attempts to make the player themselves do through the second half of the game), and of forgiving herself for how she treated Joel after he told her the truth, the guilt associated with that, and the destructive and self destructive path she went down to hunt down Abby for taking Joel away from her, along with the ‘future days’ of reconciliation she envisioned between Joel and herself (which we see, and feel, in the first half of the game).,,All of the ways the game built up these layers of hate, guilt and, ultimately forgiveness within Ellie and the player would’ve been for nothing if Ellie simply kills Abby. Giving the player a choice about this would diminish the impact of the ending as much a choice between saving Ellie and humanity in the first game would’ve diminished the overpowering nature of Joel’s paternal love built up throughout that game.,,Ellie killing Abby would’ve been a truly grim, cynical, and nihilistic ending where Ellie really does end up with nothing left and completely alone, and would’ve turned it into the ‘revenge bad’ story a lot of this game’s critics claim that it currently is.,,My interpretation is that Ellie’s discovery of her own capacity for forgiveness is what drives her to keep going at the very end of the game. She’s holding on to the hope that Dina can also find the same intuition within herself to forgive Ellie for leaving their life on the farm.
4338) It is in the top 5 games of this generation. Amazing story and graphics. Gameplay is way better compared to last of us part 1.
4339) Awesome graphics, deep and fantastic story and fun gameplay. Very good experience.
4340) This is the best game in the last 10 years. It feels like it's not just a game, but a real work of art. The graphics, sound, and gameplay are amazing. The plot is intriguing until the end credits. The emotional nature of the plot makes you feel and understand every action of the characters. I passed the game twice at the highest difficulty levels. And I am sure that I will pass it again and again. It is a pity that this level of games are so rare. Against the background of this game, others seem boring in the gameplay and story.
4341) This game is my all time favorite. Avoid spoilers and just experience it for yourself.
4342) TLOU II is the best non-open-world game I've ever played. Most people seem to don't like it because either they don't understand the story and its moral message or because of personal reasons (homophobia, hates strong women et.). This is very sad because when you expect to not like something you won't like it for sure.,In most games you kill one person after the other and the game gives you some kind of feeling that you achieved something good but to reach the goal you murdered thousands of people and no one cares (Uncharted, Tomb Raider etc.) It's the same with Ellies first Part of the story. But what makes TLOU II a masterpiece is the change in point of view to Abby. We see her love to her father, her fear of heights, the death of her friends and comrades, a pointless war against a misguided cult and later on her choosing to save two children from all of it and after all her moral superiority when she decides to let Ellie and pregnant Dina live. The evil killer that murdered Joel became human, every killing (even the dogs) and all the brutality is viewed from another point and is reflected. The message is clear: revange does not only takes so many lifes, it leads to a never seeming to end cycle which ruins the lifes of both Abby and Ellie particularly shown in their fight on the beach. Abby tried to end this before, showed mercy and got out of everything with the little boy at the end. But Ellie who couldn't forget her hatred and went again for revange lost everything: Dina and the child, the farm and very important her fingers. Without them it's impossible for her playing guitar which is the central connection between her and Joel, loosing this ability means all the hate and revange only led to loosing Joel in a way...,I am very gratefull to have been able to play this outstanding masterpiece! This story was on a completly other level not to mention the unbelievable graphics, the on-point gameplay, the love for detail, not one but two amazing female main characters and as I have heard overwhelming accessibility options. I really hope Naughty Dog is going for a third part in which they conclude the story, either Ellie dies and all hope for humanity is lost or they find a vaccination. This is a story about what hate and revange does to people and ironically the people who were hating this game are the ones who got the harm because they coulnd't go through this experience.
4343) I can only assume that the people rating this game at anything under a 5 havent finished it, or are braindead morons. This game is a masterpiece.
4344) This is the best game I played. graphics 10 /10 gameplay 11/10 story 9/10. All game 10/10
4345) surprised by the small rating of the game, I liked, played with great pleasure
4346) Awesome game with stunning visuals, acting, and gameplay experience. It is an ambitious narrative and emotionally challenging sequel. This is truly a masterpiece worthy of its predecessor.
4347) A masterpiece of a game. You have to play it twice to truely appreciate the Story and how in-depth it is. Game play is intuitive as improves on the game machanics of the original. Abby is a great addition, once you get used to her. Great supporting cast as well. Music is amazing.
4348) Druckman said the story is about hate and revenge, to me it is a story about forgivness or the missed chance to forgive and the realization that allowing grief to is a way to heal . Ellie is angry not only because she is driven by revenge but also because she wasn't able to properly forgive Joel before he died. So she wasn't able to properly grieve and let hate drive her.,The story is awesome and multiayered and even though I was hesistant to play Abby in the beginning I came to like her and feel empathy towards her.,Killing her in the end would not have made Ellie satisfied, but forgiving did!,The game gave me everything I hoped for in a game: Anticipation, tension, fear, humor, sadness, every now and then horror and in the end it doesn't let you go and gives you something to think about.
4349) I really liked the game, not many understood the message that the game wanted to send, but in my opinion the game is phenomenal!
4350) If you are having doubts about buying this game: DO IT! Don't listen to the crybabies giving it a 0. This game is amazing. Even if you end up not liking the story (I love it), all the rest is top notch. Giving this game less than a 7 is unconceivable. It's just like saying that Rambo: the videogame is the best game ever.,Don't trust user scores, like, ever.
4351) To be honest this is one of the best game i have ever played in this generation, i respect the way naughty dog handled this story because they tried doing something diferent to what people are most commonly used to see, they made some risky choices, and in my opinion it was worth the wait. Amazing story, the most visually astounding game i have ever played, emotionally affective, i cried i got mad and when something makes you feel all kinds of emotion, that means that it is a great game, still not better than the first, i do consider this game a Masterpiece.
4352) Honestly this game was worth the wait. It subverted my expectation in every single way possible and too me is one of the riskiest and most unforgettable games I have ever played. I LOVED IT!
4353) Experience from this game you can't receive from any another media. Terrific and glorious game.
4354) Absolutely outstanding game with stunning new level of graphics and story line. Looks like a lot of haters don't even played this game.,,P.S. Don't listen crying people this game "MASTERPIECE'".
4355) Absolutely loved this game, what a roller coaster of emotions! Fantastic narrative and the characters were awesome!
4356) The game is so amazing . The plot . The game play . The music . Everything is so perfect . Some people think that TLOU is better than TLOU2 but i find each of them have its own interests
4357) Loved it. Not sure why the negativity from the community. I loved the ending, it was truely emotional and had a tear in my eye. A game that if you were a fan of the last of us you should definetly pick up.
4358) The Last of Us Part II approaches the topics of revenge, reflection and change whole-heartedly in it’s risk-taking but emotionally-poignant story. Through-out it’s 20-30 hour run time, the game continually asks the player to reflect on Ellie and Joel’s actions, questioning whether they were justified and to look at events from different perspectives.,,The game tells of a story of Ellie looking for revenge as she makes her way through Seattle. Joined by companions and friends, Jesse and Dina, she seeks to right a wrong in this harsh and unforgiving world. As the story progresses, the player begins to unravel the complex relationship Ellie has with Joel about the lie Joel tells Ellie about the firefly hospital, and the justifications of one’s actions.,,The Last of Us Part II’s ideas on the morality of this revenge quest bleed into the players’ actions as the game progresses. Navigating through Seattle, Ellie kills hundreds of people in her quest for revenge. When killing enemies you may sometimes hear an enemy yell out a “Claire!” or a “Nate!”, indicating that the NPC you just killed had been a person in this world. For myself, this made me question, “Was this necessary for Ellie to do?”. Deepening the immersion into a world is what Naughty Dog excels at.,,With the upgrade in hardware from the original release of The Last of Us on the PS3, to the The Last of Us Part II on the PS4, the graphical upgrade was inevitable. As with the first game, Part II pushes the limit of the system it resides on. Beautifully rendered character models come alive with performances in motion capture, complete with all the fidgets and quirks of real people and highly-detailed environments bordering on realistic, capped with great visual and sound effects, as well as a top of the shelf soundtrack to complete the whole package.,,Part II raises the bar for excellent environmental storytelling that the first game had set for itself. In a more open design of levels, exploring the overgrown streets and abandoned buildings has allowed the player to imagine what once was before the outbreak. The game also uses the environment to lay the foundation for the two main factions present in Seattle; The Washington Liberation Front and the Seraphites, establishing iconographies and telling stories of conflict between the two, competently showcasing a world that feels grounded and lived in.,,Gameplay in The Last of Us Part II isn’t fundamentally different to in the first installment, but it does improve on it overall. Stealth and being smarter with the resources is still highly rewarded but as with the change in playable character does come a change in the pace and fluidity of encounters. Ellie is both smaller and more agile than Joel, which in turn, introduces different ways she can handle situations, such as hiding in spots Joel could not reach. This makes for a familiar yet fresh experience.,,Naughty Dog has made one of if not the most accessible games for players with disabilities. With over 60 accessibility options, the game has options for blind and low-vision players, fine motor hearing and deaf players as well as players with motor related accessibility options. Often looked over in other games, Naughty Dog has taken the time to add options other game developers disregard.,,The Last of Us Part II delivers a great sequel to one of the masterpieces of video games as a whole. It continues to deliver a deeply personal, emotional and engaging story in an amazingly-detailed world filled with well-written characters. A good story stays with you after you put down the controller and this is no exception. It is a must play.
4359) Excellent story, graphics, soundtrack, Game of the year.,Story is very touching and made me feel exactly what characters were feeling.
4360) Simply the best game I’ve ever played in my life! So many emotions and the gameplay fantastic. Epic in every way possible!
4361) Actually, I like the game and the story, it's like a radiohead song, beautiful and depressive
4362) It's a masterclass in storytelling.,It is a very challenging story that is designed to make you feel conflicted - and you really need an open mind, but highly rewarding if you can allow yourself to enjoy it. The reason so many people are upset is that they didn't get the safe fan-fiction story they wanted. This is a story about empathy and dealing with loss in a hopeless world. (first one was about finding love in a hopeless world, so by nature, it was much easier to swallow.) -  If you want just another Joel and Ellie traveling adventure with a Hollywood ending, you are gonna be disappointed. If you want some Tarantino revenge tale, you'll be disappointed. Even though I didn't love it as much as the first one, I can't stop thinking about this one, and I really hope the artists behind this are not discouraged by the bad reviews - we need more of bold, brave stories like this that don't play safe and pander to audiences just to make money.
4363) People are stupid, you must play this game. The gameplay, mechanics and graphics are excellent, the story otherwise it’s not what all the troll out there was expecting it’s a masterpiece tho.
4364) Best best best game ever Love U Naughty Dog,Great game, great graphics and great history ❤️
4365) Amazing game with a powerful story that requires the player to abandon prejudices and take it maturely (sadly, a lot of haters weren't able to do that). The story breaks cliches that are often seen in revenge stories and Marvel-like movies, demanding a great exercise of empathy and emotional intelligence from the player.,Graphics and gameplay are 10/10, improving on the stepping stone of Part I, which was already amazing on that department.
4366) Greatest game I have ever played. Truly takes your breath away how beautiful the characters, worlds and story is. The story I felt was a great continuation of the first and I hope they continue with a 3rd game. Don't be deterred by the juvenile review bombers on here anyone who has played the game loved it.
4367) An absolute Masterpiece! I dont understand the negative Reviews. The Story is awesome, the graphic beautifully realistic - with a lot love to the details- and the Gameplay is so much Fun!,Its a Must-Buy for every PS4 owner!
4368) This game shows us that game making its like movie making an art and Neil Druckmann is one of the best game directors ever and an excellent artist.You just need to take a look at his shots in this game even the main menu looks fantastic if you care about these stuff you would absolutely enjoy this game. On the other hand gameplay is impressive  you can do whatever you want in this game crafting and upgrading is improved specially in gun customization system is very satisfying.sound and audio is one of the best you can find in video games.gameplay is improved and you must try it prone and jump system took the game into a new level and the puzzles that are in the game are like resident evil series There are more types of infecteds in the game gunplay and there's a wide variety of finishers throughout the game.To sum up I must say you have to play this game for sure you might not like the story at the beginning because if something that will happen but the story is very emotional and there are sometimes you will cry or you will get angry there's a whole new guitar playing system which is so much fun and satisfying
4369) I got nothing to complain about with this game. This sort of story is refreshing, it is actually funny to see that so many are incapable to even understand the game is not about revenge even if that is the story. I love the reflections that basically mirrors both POVs. This game resonates with me because I feel like the way this game is made,,,The only thing I would have changed, and it is not even that much of a trouble to remove it from a 10/10 rating, it is that the scenes should have been rearranged with less cut scenes. But keeping some of them for sure. Like the one that reveals what this game was actually about.
4370) Game of the Year 2020, this is the best game I've had ever the pleasure to play in my life, epic experience with high and lows. Masterpiece confirmed!,,Tommy and Ellie were the best ones for me.
4371) i'ts not a game for everyone. Careless of the fanservice and very raw (like the first one). But has so much to offer, the game doesn't stay in any of the two sides, it just tell a story, and that's something that not everybody see's. The fact that the game it's not what the comunity expect doesn't mean that the game is bad, actually it's a pretty good game with a good story. I'm givin' it a 10 because there's no much of objectivity in the reviews with people trowing all that zeros. My real review is a 8.5.
4372) This game made me feel what it was like to really become the characters I was playing. I felt attached to the actions that the characters would perform and at times was genuinely sickened when I was the one having to press the buttons on the controller to complete them.
4373) The game is a masterpiece in every way, the gameplay is awesome, there are multiple ways to handle the characters, the graphics are amazing, the game has too many details that enhance the experience. The story in my opinion is the best that could have been written. It is a post-apocalyptic world where everyone lives under the same dawns and all deaths are crude and unfortunate without exception. the story is really emotional and very different from what could be seen in any other video game or movie.
4374) Amazing game! Ignore the bad reviews! The story is the best I’ve ever encountered in a video game, besides the first part. Gameplay is beyond good and much better than the previous game.
4375) This game is amazing. It's a masterpiece. This game is a masterpiece
4376) This game it’s amazing and if you would play it instead of acting like a wounded man baby you would know.
4377) The Last of Us Part II is a masterpiece. It was worth the wait. The story is controversial, and the narrative is original. The details into the story, level design, environment keeps blowing my mind. One negative about the game is that the last arc seems rushed with all the amount of enemies. The casts are diverse as well and love the LGBTQ characters.,,Kudos to Naughty Dogs for delivering such a amazing game. Screw all the haters who just want unoriginal linear games.
4378) Easily one of the best games i’ve ever played. From the graphics to the gameplay to the plot, it was a masterpiece.,I assure you that 80% of the people that rated the game bad have an emotional connection to Joel therefore were disappointed with how he died and how Ellie did not kill Abby for what she’s done. Ellie motivation for revenge was because of guilt not hate or demise. She felt guilty because Joel was killed because of her and that she didn’t forgive him before he died. I can explain why she did not revenge her adoptive father and kill his killer Abby. In the last “boss fight” you can see tears streaming down Ellies face as she drowns Abby. She suddenly got a flashback of Joel playing the guitar then let’s her go. Abby took Ellie’s chance to forgive Joel for what he’s done. She saw that there is no point in killing Abby because that would not help her get over Joels death. All she can do now is forgive Abby and move on.
4379) Excellent game, i enjoyed all the time in my play trought the excellent gameplay and characters.
4380) I can't help but feel that the negative reviews for this game are the result of players who never understood the original story.  The Last of Us is not a buddy cop movie, it is a heart-wrenching exploration of loss, regret, and (to some limited extent) redemption.  The Last of Us Part II is a story of the same magnitude, and while it confronts players with even greater loss, ambiguity, and cruelty, it contains the same fragile strand of hope as the first game.  I can't say that I enjoyed playing this game as much as the first game, but that is because this game demanded even more of me.  It required me to engage with tremendously painful concepts and story turns, and I am so grateful that the creators respected their audience enough to provide them with such a nuanced and thoughtful game.  This game was well worth the wait, another incredible achievement.
4381) The best game ever. Thank you, Naughty Dog, for these masterpiece. I'm sad about Joel and Jesse, but really happy for the game. I've just finished and I'm love for Abby. I'm happy for those women in the game, and how you guys show to everybody how we can be strong and determined. Just love it. Thank you!
4382) I love morally ambiguous and flawed characters and I absolutely loved this game. The game is a technical masterpiece, the gameplay improvements over the first are outstanding and the story completely engrossed me from start to finish.,,The outrage is depressing and tiring.
4383) Don’t listen to the internet trolls who were disappointed because part 2 didn’t go the way they imagined for 7 years. This game is everything it should’ve been as a sequel. Same general tone, amazing writing & character development, familiar gameplay & amazing graphics. In my opinion this was the perfect sequel to the first game in almost every way. The hate is from people who went into it closed minded & made up an opinion before even getting to the juice of the story. Concept truly blew other games out of the water, and even leveled up from the first game in more ways than one from a story-telling stand-point. (& no i did not feel like an “agenda” was pushed, either, by naughty dog. Tbh i feel like it did a great job accurately representing human beings and all of their nuances.) 10/10 best game i’ve played in a while, definitely GOTY so far.
4384) It’s simply the best game I’ve played since The Last of Us Part 1. that’s it
4385) The best game in this decade in all respects.   ............................
4386) I loved it so much!! I still love the first one more but I enjoyed every moment of Part II and loved playing as Abby after her seattle Day 1, very well done Naughty Dog.
4387) Perfect ! Love the last of us part 1 and 2.,Nice gameplay. Takes about 30 hours
4388) The Last of Us Part II is an artistic masterpiece. To just call The Last of Us Part II a video game would underplay the interactive experience.,,I know this game is not for everyone, but this is truly a work of art.
4389) This is a masterpiece,I am in the gaming for more than 20 years, never experienced a touching story telling in gaming like this before..,There were moments i was supposed to hit a bottom   To hit my opposite counter but i did not want because i like him or her
4390) I don’t know what to say.. just finished and I think it’s the best game ever. Just.. amazing. I don’t have words.
4391) Best game I ever play (The last of us is the best game series ever Made!!) Thank you Naughtydog and Neil Druckman
4392) I love this game. Thanks Naughty Dog,They give us a powerfull history,beautiful soundtrack. Thanks again  for this game
4393) It was good, and it managed to balance an emotional story. It did something new
4394) The last of us 2 for me is a gem, the game has a very good development in the story, its characters are full of charisma, some graphics that are more than impeccable, and very good body and facial movement fluids. I can not deny that in terms of games, something else was missing so that it did not become monotonous, despite that, the story makes you feel anger, sorrow, confusion, happiness, nostalgia and that is something that is missing in current games. love and care when creating the second part of one of the best games that exist. So a more than deserved 10.
4395) Games pacing is definitely a little wonky but overall the game succeeds an ambitious story.
4396) I played this game blind, without knowing any of the controversies or leaks, and without reading a single review beforehand.  And what I got was an incredible experience that haunted me for days, and still has me thinking about it even a week later.  Though it's not horror, it's one of the darkest games I've ever played.  It made me do things I've never done in a game before, things that were extremely uncomfortable and heart-wrenching.  If the goal of Part II was to elicit emotion from the player, then it's a resounding success.,,Having looked at some other reviews now, it seems that that emotional discomfort really bothered people.  Whereas for me, I was in awe that a game could make me feel this way.  Naughty Dog could have easily given fans exactly what they wanted, a play-it-safe sequel where nobody we care about dies, and everyone lives happily ever after.  But that's not how life works, especially in this ultraviolent world they've created.  Without spoiling anything, Naughty Dog took a big risk with Part II and I couldn't be happier about it.  There's simply no other AAA game that has done before what they accomplished.  The story is immense, complex, and daring.,,The Last of Us Part II is revolutionary.  Not only in its multi-sided story-telling, but also in its mechanics and meticulous attention to detail.  Every moment in this game is screenshot-worthy, and the combat is more immersive than ever with enemies calling each other by name.  It's such a simple idea to think about and yet it adds so much to each combat scenario.  Shoot someone in the head and their friend might yell "NO, SKYLER!"  The violence & gore is also just plain disturbing at times.  Not since the original Soldier of Fortune have I been this shocked to go up to a dead body and witness the aftermath of my chaos.,,It's clear that an ungodly amount of work and talent went into every facet of this game, and when I finished it I struggled to "review" it in my mind.  It was just SO MUCH to process.  It took me days to finally decide what number rating to give it, but when I managed to put all the pieces together and look at the game for what it was (not what I expected it to be) I realized that the game was a masterpiece.,,Don't listen to the negativity of others.  Play the game yourself and come to your own conclusions.  In my mind, Part II is a must play title, every bit worthy as a sequel to one of the best Playstation games ever made, and my personal game of the year thus far.
4397) I would say that the game fully continues the ideas of the first part, some turns of the game are really unpredictable, especially in the end of the Prologue ;),The game play is extremely involving.,Finally, for sure, no other game didn't make such a big impact on me after finishing. At the same time, I understand why people put 0 - this game isn't something they were waiting for.
4398) Can’t stand those cry babies... this is a Perfect Game, it has some flaws with repetitive gameplay or the pacing (like a lot of naughty dog games) but the story is not one of them. A lot can not stand or understand what the game tries to tell you. They want Joel back or it is a **** Game. Those this game have an agenda? Yes, but this does not make it a bad game. Grow up losers and enjoy a game which is not call of duty part 3498 !
4399) I'm still baffled by the huge number of negative reviews (although a large fraction are from at least one subreddit that made plans to review bomb the game on day 1).   The gameplay has been improved upon compared to the first game.  The visuals are stunning.  The story is excellent if you have the emotional intelligence necessary to understand new characters and their motivations.   I was not disappointed!
4400) I think is a great game, whit a great story and great characters, still has some holes in the story and some forced situations, but in my opinion it’s a great game that does not deserve that much of hate and bad reviews.
4401) A true narrative masterpiece of media. It absolutely rethinks the role of the player in video games. Complex and deep characters, and a bleak story that maybe won’t make you feel good, but it will make you feel a lot.
4402) Don’t listen to the haters. One of the best PS4 games. If you liked the first game you will love this one.
4403) A beautiful game, fallen a victim of mass social stereotypes. Titanic efforts put into level designs and story, I really can’t stress enough what a masterpiece you made!,Naughty Dog, I really loved and enjoyed your game, please keep up doing what you feel right!
4404) The game is a masterpiece, don’t watch it, don’t ask for it, just play it and see by yourself.
4405) Amazing game.,The graphics, the story are great. I'm still under it's influence.
4406) Loved it,Hope we get more of abby in the future. Not as good as the first one but still a solid 10 for me
4407) Do not fall for the bombing reviewers/trolls. This game is simply a masterpiece. Naughty Dog really pushed through the limits of the PS4 while delivering a unique game experience.
4408) “Evil is a relay sport when the ones who’s burned turns to pass the torch” - Fiona Apple
4409) Best game Best graphics Everything is best Love that series ...... Good job ND team
4410) This second part shows you that even a "hero" can die in a blink. A post-apocalyptic world is cruel, bad and lethal,  and nobody is safe.,Maybe the plot was a a little ridiculous,  some events were too convenient for the plot to unfold, but even so it does not detract from the great work that the Naughty Dog team did, you can see the love, effort and dedication they put into this great work.  Was a sequel to the first game unnecessary?  Yes, maybe, but this second part is a decent closing for characters that made us love several years ago.,Gameplay is just wonderful, the visuals are perfect and the music is gonna give you  goosebumps every second.,Give it a try, this is a must-play for the closure of the Ps4
4411) Absolutely stunning game. The graphics are the most realistic and beautiful ive seen in gaming history. Very colourful yet dark at the same time. The story goes with it the same way very well paced enticed with amazing gameplay and realistic/relatable characters for everyone. Cant wait for a possible part III
4412) Brilliant art, emotionally deep characters and better gameplay than the first game. The Last of Us II is also a great journey that put you in a rollercoaster of emotions, showing both sides of the coin in a world so perfectly detailed.
4413) The way the story shows you how abby, who you see as the villian at the beginning, is no other than a human being. Damn, Ellie could easily be the villian if the game focused entirely on Abby. The way the game evolves from vengeance with Joel's death, to love with the last memory of Ellie and Joel is just fantastic. Probably, people who criticized the game we
4414) **** amazing no words. It's not a perfect game some issues even, but it hits every notes that it's supposed to hit
4415) The very best and greatest form of media I have ever experienced; from the game play to the storytelling. It's a true masterpiece.
4416) A story that pulls you in many directions. Everyone is a hero in their own story and every story has villains. This game reminds us that we can all be villains in someone else’s story. Gameplay and visuals of this game are also both amazing. Every play through I learn a new combo or see a new detail. Very well crafted all around.
4417) I think it's a masterpiece . Especially when we play Abby, I was so excited. Abby's missions more exciting than Ellie
4418) A true masterpiece. A game which have perfect story and perfect acting. I am so impressed by the game beacuse every thing was awesome.
4419) Wasn't too sure about it. But loved it. Don't understand the hate it's getting however. Must be the same audience thst loves fast and the furious and are anticipating that sweet part 20 and spin off after spin off   lol.
4420) Excellent visuals, an unexpected story, perfectly improved gameplay mechanics and upgrade system.
4421) So I actually made an account just to write this review because I think this game was severely misunderstood by so many "fans" of the series. It will not include any spoilers.,,Gameplay: 10/10,If you played Part 1, you will feel at home right away. The gameplay in it's core stayed the same, which I love! There are some more options in terms of crafting/upgrading/skill tree which can complement your preferred playing style (stealth or rambo) and Ellie is more agile that what you know from Part 1. It feels like a true survival game when there are strong enemies and loot is scarce. If you are an average or experienced gamer you should certainly play it on HARD. That gives you some challenge without being too challenging. It complements the story very well and you will certainly have some "fear" moments because you feel like the enemy is too strong. Sometimes I even thought of going one difficulty higher, do as you please but the game certainly is the most fun when it is challenging.,,Video/Sound: 10/10,Here obviously we don't have to say much. It is amazing how an almost 7 year old device can produce such graphics. Play on HDR if your TV supports this. The sound itself is also amazing, especially if you have surround sound. When you flee and enemies are chasing you, hearing their shots, screams, dogs running after you from behind ist just amazing. I do wish they had more "ambient" sounds for the weather, wind, water etc. coming from the back speakers that would make you feel like you are IN the game when there are slow parts of the story.,,Story: 9/10,So, now we come to the most talked about subject. As this review should not include any spoilers I obviously can't tell much about the story itself. There are many negative reviews about the story because people don't like how the story turns out. Just to put it out there, the story itself is great! It makes you think about violence, good and bad, right or wrong and is constructed with a lot of emotions overall. And I think that's where the expectation gap comes in. We as gamers are used to being able to change the story and make the protagonist do what we want. The Last of Us Part 2 is not such a game!!! (and btw Part 1 was neither). It will tell you the story and decisions of the people in it and you as a gamer,can't change that. And that is why it is so great. There is no right or wrong decision for you to make. The protagonists make the decisions and you are the one executing it. And that gives you insights in who the protagonist is and what he/she feels like. And with this they can portray a good story that makes you question decisions or reasonings of the protagonists, which is great! The story is an emotional rollercoaster and I love it for that reason.,,Overall, the game is not perfect, but it certainly is a very worthy Part 2 to the first game that develops a new story in a brutal environment. It is fun to play, has a great length with an interesting story that makes you think about it and obviously looks and feels great. Also, there were emotions that I felt while playing this game that I never had in any other game before. And just for that I certainly recommend playing this game.
4422) This Game Is a MASTERPIECE i have never ever played a game with such good graphics this is the beat graphics game on ps4 hands down it have  an intense gameplay this game outclassed the first game and this game outclassed uncharted 4 for me this is the best game of all time Naughty Dog have set a new standard of  story based games
4423) This is a Fantastic Game !  I really love it.,,The story is surprising and makes you rethink important topics. The game is very exciting because the story is serious and heavy.
4424) The Last of Us Part II is a masterpiece.,,-Story,-Art direction,-Character design,-Graphics,-Audio,-Music,-Gameplay,,All 10/10
4425) A staggering, one in a generation game. Lives up to the first game in every way. It’s evocative in a way incomparable to anything else. Play it yourself - you won’t regret it.
4426) amazing game graphics amazing game mechanics enjoyed it only some parts of the story i didnt like but overall its a great game
4427) Incredible!!!! The game was just the best game that Iever played! Was just incredible
4428) The ending was beautiful, thank you for this story Neil. If you're at all a fan of the first game you'd be a fool to miss this game, tops it in every way gameplay wise and the story brings a weight to every action.
4429) A masterclass in world building and storytelling.
4430) definitely my favorite game of 2020 so far. I think the story is complete and shocking, and the gameplay and visual effects mark the highest level of the entire industry.
4431) No spoilers whatsoever :),Love this game, great gameplay, frickin amazing graphics, best I’ve ever seen and personally I think it’s a really really good and meaningful story. Please if you are reading this, do not leave a review unless you YOURSELF have played through the entire game. When you do give a review give your own opinion. Most of these bad reviews are most probably people who haven’t even played the game or not finished it. How can you give your opinion on a game you haven’t played? You can’t. They’ve read or watched a bad review on someone ELSES opinion and they slap it on here. You need to play the game yourself all the way through to actually understand the story and message. Also on PS4 only 30% of people have the trophy you get for finishing the game... you see? Only 30% of people who own the game actually completed it. So take bad reviews with a grain of salt. Form your own opinion. I have completed this game and I love it. I’m playing it again in new game + and getting all upgrades now :)
4432) This game is a masterpiece. Perfect gameplay, perfect story and atmosphere. In my opinion, people cannot rate this game if they don't play it by themselves. And it's really sad for my to see so small rate for this game...
4433) Why le playing this game I felt all the sensations that the characters felt, best game of the year
4434) Great game with great story and stunning gameplay. It gives completely new emotions
4435) One of the Greatest Games of all time. Compelling, Thought-Provoking Story that will not leave your mind for awhile
4436) It's a masterpiece. Just finished playing it, my gameplay lasted 39 hours. Never felt like this after any game, movie or book. I cried many hours and was in shock when the credits rolled. I understand why many people hate it, but like all good art people simply don't like everything. And this one is definetly not for kids. It's a game for adults.
4437) A break of paradigm on interactive narrative. The game brings a deep take on hate and empathy, two of the most rellevant topics of contemporary society. Gameplay is dope also.
4438) The Last of Us: Part II is definitely the best game I've ever played.  From the first part they took all the best and added a bunch of new chips. There should be a long text with my thoughts and impressions about the game, but in order not to spoil such a cult game, I just say that if you did not play the first part, then absolutely do not play the second.  It will be pointless.  You will not feel the effect as after passing the first and second parts together.  As for me, the first and second part would be ideal to combine together, because  it is a whole story that will cause you a storm of emotions if you penetrate it. The only thing I want to say about the plot is that the scriptwriters revealed each character, thereby forcing us, the players, to rethink the question once again: “where is the truth?”, “And who is right?” NaughtyDog created an amazing game.  And I'm sure that the high bar that the developers set in the second part will be very difficult to surpass for many more years.
4439) The best game of this generation, hater and xbox gamer are poor people, give 0 at this is game means that you are not a gamer but you are only an
4440) Game of the generation.,I am so proud of what video games have become. And I am thankful that AAA games exist that dare to be different and to push gaming to a new level, not only technically, but much more important, emotionally. I love Naughty Dog for their risk taking and that they are not satisfied with a cheap and easy second story that suits everyone, but try to push the limits of storytelling and are playing with the emotions of the players. I hope that the financial side will speak for them as well.
4441) The gameplay, world building, and characters make this game unforgettable. The story is raw and emotional, but very good. Every piece of this game is brilliant.
4442) One of the best games ever made. An exhausting tale reminiscent of a Cormac Mccarthy novel, with a touch of the Revenant thrown in. You don't come out happy, but you're glad for the experience.
4443) Goty game really enjoyed it a lot good story gameplay was a bit slow but the story paid off
4444) This game managed to fool me big time. It brought me back in time when I was a kid and had much brighter gaming experience. For that trick alone I would give a 10. But there are also incredible graphics with a ton of details, atmospheric locations and disgusting ( in a good way) story.
4445) I'm shocked at all the negative reviews. Did people not finish the game? The gameplay mechanics we're largely untouched, I was hoping for deeper upgrade trees, but the last of us is about story telling, which was done incredibly well. If you can make me hate a character in the beginning, but then flip things to where she feels like the protagonist by the end, that's excellent sorry telling.
4446) There are many games that tell decent narratives. There are very few that tell narratives on par with series and films. The Last of Us Part 1 and 2 are the only games that reach this level in my own opinion. Part 2 is controversial within the fan base and I can understand a few of the criticisms, but giving it a score of 0/10 is outrageous. Even if you don't like the direction the story went, the gameplay and graphics are incredible. I didn't see any bugs, the fighting mechanics were top notch, and the gunplay was unforgiving in the best way possible.,,I think there is a number of people who wanted to make decisions in the story themselves, and when our protagonists had the final say, the player found them to be poor choices. You may have loved these characters a lot and found yourself heartbroken over their decision making, but I think that means you never understood who they really were, who they have become, or their internal struggles in the first place.
4447) On the edge of my seat when Abby and Ellie fight the first time, did not want to kill Ellie. Then the final fight with them, I was again on the edge of my seat hoping Ellie wouldn’t kill her.,I so hope there is a part III and a possibly cure coming!,This game is the only reason I own a PlayStation!
4448) This game **** me up like nothing else. Even 3 days after completing it I still think about the story and characters. I understand how some people may dislike certain twists or directions the narrative has taken, but you can not deny the impact this game has or label it as lazy writing. This truly is a game ever Playstation owner has to play and form their own opinion on.
4449) So, 39 hours on survival. Nothing more to say, just masterpiece.,Insane level of details, emotions and full of blood and revenge.
4450) Don't listed to bad reviews written the same day of its launch (although the game is 25 hours long, so something don't fit). It is a really good game, the story maybe is a bit worse than the first game, but first game is a masterpiece and difficult to equal. I though of reviewing with a 8 or 9, but since this game neither deserves a 0, i will put a 10.
4451) The best game of the year so far. Outstanding graphics and animations. Interesting story (even though it's not what fans expected). And I really liked that trailers didn't have any spoilers.
4452) Masterpiece. Part 1 is the best game of 2010's, Part 2 probably will be in the top-3 of the best games of 2020's. This is very dark and serious story, much less happier than Part 1. All negative reviews are based on a Joel's death and SJW-theme. Just ignore the sjw theme, relax and enjoy! I am little bit homophobic rasist myself, but I had a lot of deep and happy emotions playing this game because there is a lot of fantastic things that constantly surprise you. And of course TLOU2 is the best looking game in part of graphics and visual art.,Give this game a chance. Because this game was made with pure deep love, you will feel it, I promise.
4453) First of all, this game is amazing. The graphics, level design, sound, voice acting, music, character designs (I still find clickers gorgeous/horrifying) and the unlockable concept art are all jaw dropping. Only warning I have is that this games storyline is dark, which isn’t a bad thing, but I had to go watch lighthearted stuff after to feel better. Once I completed the game I did sit for half an hour, just thinking about what just happened. And now I’m replaying it. It really is a stunning game, definitely worthy of goty.
4454) Simply a masterpiece! This game is roller coaster of emotions. When you thing that your are assure of your rolle in this game, Naughty Dog slap in your face saying “you know nothing” and deliveries a fantastic adventure. Congratulations ND and Sony!
4455) Best  game ever   i give 10 because joel died in this game    he killed humanity  and died
4456) This game is a masterpiece that does not hold back, nor does it care about your feelings or your thoughts of it but it does give you both feelings and thoughts. The last of us 2 takes you on the journey it wants to tell you and it doesn't take you any other way. If I could I would give this game an 11/10 but unfortunately I can't.
4457) Fantastic game. GOTY 2020 easily. I'm already looking forward to a Part 3 on PS5.
4458) I like tlou2 because he It shows beautiful landscapes, shows interesting mechanics, shows how much work you need to invest to make such a beautiful project
4459) This game is a freaking masterpiece. Please disregard the hateful comments, as most people either haven't played it, or are not mature enough to digest the story - which is emotionally heavy. Just play it, you won't regret it.
4460) An absolute masterclass in game design and story telling. Not just game of the year, not just game of the generation, this could be the greatest game of all time. Beautifully written story with intense game play. Don't let the haters have you fooled, this is one you need to play to appreciate.
4461) The deliveries everything that you were waiting for. Believe me you're not gonna deception.
4462) The best ever. The story well told. For those who have not played, play then make your own opinion.
4463) the best game i play in my life! MASTERPIECE gameplay 10, history 10, graphics 10, direct 10
4464) The best game that could be made. This game with Uncharted and Last of us 1 and God of War is really unique. The story is very engaging and the characters are very lovable and real. I was really surprised to see all that negative criticism. 1000 thanks to Naughty Dog Studio and Sony for making this beautiful game.
4465) Very good game ever!,Each details on history from the game are amazing. The way the things happening are very crazy.
4466) Gameplay, Graphics, Features, and Character/Acting are all incredible and will influence future games as much as Part 1.
4467) A masterpiece. Looking forward metatcritic removes those negative ratings and we'll se real user rating.
4468) this is an awesome game every thing in it is great from sound design visuals story,,naughty dog could have easily made this an fan favorite game but they went out off the box wanted to change it up a bit if you played the game the story will amaze you sure joel died every buddy got angry,but the reason is pretty good  and he was a fan favorite but the things he did in tlou1 are **** up,,abby is a good person he took revenge for for her father ok good
4469) This game is a masterpiece, should be up there with the Mona Lisa or Dark Side of the Moon as one of the greatest work of art ever created... Here are the reasons why Naughty Dog created a true work of art:,,They could have been easily finish this game last year by ending it on Seattle Day 3 with Ellie killing Abby...a normal revenge story. Joel death is cruel, it fill us with the same feelings Ellie had, it is not a Disney story, Joel was a bad person but we get to loved him on the first game but eventually his past caught up with him.,,Abby killed Joel and Ellie wants to revenge his death...HOWEVER....Naughty Dog did the extraordinary...they made you played with Joel's killer, we all hate it....but as the days pass and we get to know this character, her back story and her reasons, we understand how valid her reasons were, maybe more than Ellie's and how determine she was in focusing on Joel only and nobody else.,,The creators want us to doubt who was right or wrong, make us discover the terrible consequences of vengeance in more than one occasion, Abby lost all of her friends, Ellie lost her family, her sanity, Jesse, Tommy's health and even the one thing that could connect her to Joel (her ability to play the guitar).,,People who said Joel was not honored, obviously did not understand the importance of the Flashbacks, the Birthday was amazing, the guitar scene as well, and the ending when Ellie "forgives" Joel the night before his death just an extraordinary touch in letting us know that having anger or being upset with love's ones is not worth it since you never know what could happens next.,,Finally the end is just perfect, Ellie honored Joel's life by forgiving Abby and allowing her to become the protector for Lev the way Joel was for Ellie. The scene with Joel smiling as Ellie was killing Abby was key in understanding that it was enough. I will only add a simple question...."Why Abby? - and let Abby explain Ellie that Joel killed her dad who was the doctor" That will be the perfect closure.
4470) The last of us 2 honors it’s predecessor by expanding upon the framework that was left behind; it takes the characters we have come to know and love, and gives them a natural linear progression. Sure, naughty dog says F you to what the fans wanted, but they ultimately give us a story that we need. A story that forces us to confront our actions, to rethink situations from different perspectives, and to ask ourselves some of the most difficult, philosophical, and human questions that has not been yet developed as adamantly in a video game. I’ll admit that there are times where the pacing suffers, but after multiple playthroughs I see that these pacing hurdles are necessary for the collective understanding of the game. The visuals are breathtaking, the gameplay, If still familiar, is fresh, updated, and above all, super fun. Everything leads up to one staggering conclusion that challenged me me as a gamer and as a human. I’ve never had to question my actions in a video game before until I’ve played this game, and that on its own, is a remarkable accomplishment. Like Troy Baker said: “fans need to come into this game with an open mind.” He was right because this game will not sit right with some fans because of some narrative choices, but just because you don’t like where the story goes, it doesn’t mean that the story doesn’t work. It does work if you ask me, and this is a game that will be discussed for years to come. This is what art is all about; encourage discourse but be nice to each other.
4471) Its hands down the best game this generation. Some people may hate it for the storyline, which is understandable but those who are just bombing it with negative reviews just for the LGBTQ+ representation, NOT COOL!,,Naughty Dog has done it in this game, The graphics, gameplay and audio, all are top-notch. The only thing I don't like is how sudden and how Joel dies. I think they could've done it better but maybe that"s what they wanted.,,I do respect ND's decision not to make this fan service and to do something so bold with its story
4472) What an incredible game.,,I've never felt such heightened emotion while playing a game that I'm quite literally screaming out due to stress, tension or fear, and my deep love for the characters causing me to cry.  Neil Druckmann and the rest of the team at NaughtyDog really have mastered the art of modern video game-making.,,They have accomplished something that is astonishing in today's overcrowded landscape of entertainment media, where it feels as though everything has been done before, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to stand out among the infinite resources we can choose from in this golden age of content.,,Troy Baker and Ashley Johnson return as Joel and Ellie, expertly portraying their respective characters in a performance that feels deep, rich and meaningful. Johnson, especially, really cranks it up a notch as an older Ellie, and I would go as far as to say Johnson is more talented her field than many popular actresses working in TV and Hollywood today.,,I think it's a remarkable achievement to introduce new characters that aren't dry, annoying or just not really worth caring for. It's an all too common problem in film, TV or games that I think we've accepted as normal and to be expected when sequels and spinoffs are made. However, I did find myself happy to see Jesse, anticipating interactions between Dina and Ellie and found myself growing to like Abby despite outright hatred toward her to begin with, which is not an easy feat.,,Everything in this game is oozing with genuine effort - nothing is lazy. The graphics, game play combat and above all the story is phenomenal. I'm blown away by what the team at NaughtyDog have been able to take from the first game, and improve and build upon it.,The story is what seems to be making or breaking this experience for many people. It upsets me to see so many negative reviews when the years of dedication, love and care to create this game is so starkly evident.,I really think that if you believe that the story was poor, you aren't understanding it in the slightest. You're missing the mark and failing to see the point completely.,Many of the critic reviews do an excellent job of illustrating this point. Go and read some of their reviews.,,To give this game anything between a 0 and a 4 is downright wrong, because even if one did understand the story, and it truly wasn't for them, then fair enough - but you can't deny that everything else that makes up this game was near perfect.,,I'm also terribly disappointed in those reviews that stated the reason they were giving the game a bad score was because they were having 'politically correct, feminist propaganda' shoved down their throats. How will we ever have LGBT+ and/or strong female leads represented in anything if angry bigots shoot it down in the first instance, complaining that they have to see someone different to them on their TV screen?  It's actually disgusting to see in the year 2020 just how many people are still stuck in the past.,,I know this phrase 'subverted my expectations' is so overused and practically a joke but it really did just that. I was always on my toes, unable to predict what was going to be throw at me next. I had a phenomenal experience all throughout the game, but somehow the last few hours just elevated the entire game 10-fold, wrapping it up so fantastically. I teared up a lot.,,I wouldn't be able to say whether ''Part I is better then Part II'' or vice versa, because they both have completely different feels to them that it becomes impossible to compare the two. I think the change in mood is down to the nature of the respective stories. Part I is about (fatherly/daughterly) love, but toward the very end it becomes what the second instalment is about -  the (arguably horrid and wrong) things you do for someone you love unconditionally.,,I think you could choose to interpret that change in feel as a positive or negative, personally, I think it's a good thing. It needs to have a point of differentiation, something that lets everyone know it isn't it's predecessor. Or else, we end up experiencing something that feels like a cut and paste of the first one, with a few things jumbled around which happens far too often in the entertainment industry because it's safe and profitable. I think it's incredibly brave and commendable for NaughtyDog not to rely on the success of the first instalment, and it definitely pays off.,,The Last Of Us Part II is a worthy continuation of a modern classic, and passes the game from being Joel's to Ellie's story of survival and love smoothly, even though they are beautifully and heavily intertwined with each other.
4473) The most emotional, deep , detailed and satisfying title, which is more than video game. It's stellear masterpiece, which can't be compared to any other.
4474) The Last Of Us Part ll is a story that begins with a strong thematic of revenge and hatred, but as it develops, it is revealed that actually, it is a story of empathy, that there are always two sides of a story and nothing is unilateral, yes, the characters that you love can be monsters and the characters that you hate have their motivations and the developers of this game are fearless to show you these things like a punch in your face, it is unwanted, uncomfortable and unpleasant, the way it needs to be.,,If you don't have an open mind and refuse to try to understand both sides, despite the game's excellent attempt to do so, you're gonna hate this game, your stubbornness ruined one of the best experiences of your life, because this game ONLY works if you empathize with the characters.,,The Last Of Us has always been a story about its characters, if you think that the story of Part ll is cliche, you could use these same arguments to criticize the first one, "a zombie post-apocalyptic world with a character that is immune through which we will find a cure", cliche, right? But you know, it isn't a cliché story and it's due to its characters. They are deep, with multiple layers of personality, and that is why they are so human. Did you forget it in Part ll? Or you really think the characters are shallow with no personality?,,The graphics and gameplay are simply breath-taking, the story is thrilling and can make you feel things you didn't even know you could feel, not to mention the incredible performances of Ashley Johnson(Ellie) and Troy Baker(Joel).,,This game is a roller coaster of emotions that everyone could enjoy if they were a bit more open-minded.
4475) The story is perfect. The art design, the acting, everything was soooo good.I totally recommend this game to every one who wanna plays it. It's a masterpiece
4476) As much as i did not like the ending and the narrative, i have to say that it totally makes sense especially when you are in that kind of world. Killing begets another revenge and thats what you gonna get for killing innocent.,Beside that, everything else about the game is top-notch. The graphic quality is insane with crazy attention to details. If you are a game designer, you gonna straight-away realise how many lines of codes were needed just for the ropes mechanics in the game. Hint: It is ENORMOUS.,The combat, if i can rate exactly, would be 1000/10 when you know how to make use of everything that has been designed wisely and is supposed for you to use against your enemies. The game is not all about sneak-attack and there are more than 20 ways of approaching your enemies. You have 6 weapons for each playable character as well as bombs, arrows, silencers, etc. so stop saying that it is repetitive. It is your playstyle that is repetitive, not the game combat mechanics. Also, the game meelee combat is extremely brutal and you gonna feel for every hit you make. All i can say is that Naughty Dog did a very good job in making the combat feel so realistic.,Music is another strong aspect of the game. Just watch the credit roll and you will understand it.,,Overall, if you ask me whether its worth your money and time : Yes, definitely. Give it a try and judge the story for yourself rather than just reading spoilers and watching some cut-scenes on youtube. The game feels extremely different when you ARE THE ONE that is actually playing it.
4477) It was WAAAAAY BETTER than the first one.,It defies the concept of revange we are used to (glorified by HOLLYWOOD movies) and challenges the the player by gameplay.,,Oh, and Abby is the best girl and Ellie is just a piece of ****
4478) It’s a great overall game and it’s definitely worth playing, people who are hating just cant take a sad story or they didn’t understand the story. Don’t listen to the small minded people telling you not to play it, give it a shot, it’s a rollercoaster of emotions.
4479) Outside of the one death everyone hated, this game was a masterpiece, each gameplay element had me wanting more, the cutscenes were movie quality as if I were watching in theatres. I'm sick of people not giving games like this a chance and I am convinced naughty dog are one of the best game companies out there
4480) It's actually embarrassing, that you can "review" a game without Having played it. So many reviews from the same day the game came out, when the game clearly is 20+ hours.,,With that being said. It's hard for me to imagine people not understanding this game. A beautiful game that shows exactly how different people are.,We have to understand how they try to squish in the theme, not only "forgiveness", but also how people cope with loss and pain.,I think that flew over the head of a lot of the younger "reviewers".,The game isn't trying to make us "like" Abby. It's just trying to show that not all is black and white, but with the combination of amazing Animation, it was way more personal and gritty, putting a knife through someones throat that is playing a video game on their phone. We have experienced so much violence in movies and in games. That makes it easy to shoot the *bad* guy.,,In the beginning of the game, we see how Joel is talking to Tommy about something he has done.,Something he has never talked with anybody about in his life. Something that has been weighing on him.,,As we hear Dina say later that Ellie probably should talk to her about her feelings/about what happened. Ellie mentions that Joel wouldn't have done that.,That's exactly the problem with both Joel and Ellie. Of course they are imperfect  characters, they don't know how to cope with their problems, and since Ellie was "raised" by Joel, she would never have really understood how to cope with extreme emotion.,Through the game we then experience her frustration. To begin with, you can say that she definitely wants revenge,  but through her story it was also a way to cope with her loss. Was she going to sit home in Jackson? Impossible, she had never learned to mourn anybody, and the only way she can combat the pain, is by anger and hatred.,This brings us to Abby's part. We see what she went through by Joel's hand.,Joel single handedly stopped the cure for the entire world. He is not a good guy. He is just a guy.,Who puts his own selfishness and pain over ANY other human being.,Playing as Abby is definitely a shock and confuses the player.  That's exactly the kinds of emotion only this game could bring to such an extreme.,I loved Abby's part, though it was a bit exhausting playing as her since we just played as Ellie, and frankly we would just get back to her, but over time it really shone through how normal all these people are.,,The end of the game, where we are the cabin, everything is "perfect".,,Ellie can't let go and just like his brother, Tommy can't either.,Ellie hasn't coped with her loss still, after so much death, she still hasn't brought pain to Abby(She feels like) As Abby has to her.  As the player we kinda beg for her to stop, we are Dina in this scenario.,,That brings us the the very last scene.,Abby is weak, she has been through hell.,Ellie let's her go, and then they are at the boats.,,But Ellie just feels this void in her heart, she doesn't know what to do with it, other than fight it out.,,She never learned to cope, only her own way, she never really learned to forgive. But she was going to try.,So in the end she wasn't forgiving Abby. She was coming to terms that she was forgiving Joel.,,Maybe this game isn't a 10/10, it's definitely close. But because of the abundance of troll reviews, that wants a "new" game that is different, but when it's given to them, they cry.,So yeah A 10/10 game.
4481) It improves on every gameplay aspect of the first game. More importantly, I've never been so invested in a video game's story and characters before. Absolutely recommend.
4482) This is a 100% milestone in video game history.,I never had so strong emotions in a video game like in this one before
4483) Great gameplay system like you play previous one plus Uncharted 4. Environment and details in game are stunning. I like the intense of story but somehow don't know why some people hate it LOL.
4484) If i could describe a game that could capture my heart regardless of what they do in the game, this would be that game. They did something that they knew would create backlash and im impressed with it. They did the unknown and surprised me with gameplay that was unique to doing a cannonball or pulling out the guitar and playing known songs. This will go in my book as one of the greatest games i have played to this day!
4485) This game is just a masterpiece. Dont listen anybody, and play this game. Its deserve more then just 5 user score.
4486) Because the game is nice except for the story. the story wasn't as good as I expected
4487) I'm too tired to listen to swearing in the direction of this game.Kirsti was caught before the passage and during it, which made my perception a little worse.But in the end, after thinking about it, I really liked the game.There are very small flaws in the technical part, but they are insignificant.The atmosphere, the gameplay is head and shoulders above the first part.The plot is more complex and makes you think before everything becomes clear.Only strongly catches the eye design of female characters, there is no naturalness and aesthetics, not all women should be so strong that even with a child in the stomach can jump and jump, plus the physiology of the bodies of all the same, except for Abby(Abby can be justified).All angry reviews for this game I consider vile and subjective,especially annoying to those who did not pass the game and watched on YouTube.I can't put together a complete impression right now because it takes time .I will say that I really liked the game,and it is a little better than the first one.I wish Neil Drakman to rest now, gain strength and give out new projects as always perfectly.Don't just listen to stupid haters.And I don't want to see the trace of Anita Sarkisian on such works,as it becomes clear,this greatly interferes with logic.Neil,you gotta do it yourself
4488) One of those games that you should choose instead of going to the cinema. Graphics and game-play are at the highest level. Although the plot first seems a little confusing, but then you will be imbued with this masterpiece that will make you cry.
4489) I dont know why the people hate this game.This game is amazing .Story and gameplay is beatifull.
4490) One of the best game I've ever played.,Graphics, details, behavior of opponents, everything at the highest level.
4491) (NO SPOILERS). I finished the last of us part 2 in more than 20 hours of gameplay, and it was simply the best experience I've ever had in a game, the game brings a lot of emotions, surprises you from beginning to end, with a tense and impeccable gameplay, the last of us 2 is one of the greatest masterpieces in the gaming world, and whoever has a ps4, has to play
4492) Words can't explain how good this experience was in any aspect , gameplay , graphics , story and ... There were no problem in non of them
4493) This game will make you unconfortable in several moments, will make you reflect a lot about morality, justice and the consequences of the pursue for vengeance.,Don't expect to be satisfied by this experience, it's not about that. To really feel this game you'll need to treat it as a playthrough movie, which will not be flattering AT ALL, but will be an amazing experience in the end.
4494) The best video game ever created. It demands so much of you, and it pushes boundaries for storytelling within this medium.
4495) Amazing in every way - loved the story, graphics, and gameplay. Can’t wait to play it again.
4496) Decided to buy it after seeing so many bad reviews. Played the first one and loved it. The second installment adds even more character development and has a killer script and story to go with it. Gameplay builds upon the mechanics of its predecessor and ads in a bit more realism with breaking through window etc. Fun game and glad I bought it.
4497) Loved every part of it. Great story, amazing graphics and overall a really polished experience. You can really see the amount of hard that went into the production of this game. I don't care what other people think I genuinely think that the story was actually pretty good.
4498) After finishing this game and thinking about it for ages, I think it might be the best game I’ve ever played. It took me to places I didn’t expect, they took bold risks I never thought they would, and it all paid off. Even the places that I wasn’t sure I would enjoy going through paid off heavily as the story progressed, and I feel like I truly understood every character’s perspective and every decision made by the end. I’ve never thought so much about a journey, and especially an ending, in a game or any piece of media as I have this one
4499) Without a doubt, this is the best game for me.  Simply an incredible and exciting journey.  Congratulations to everyone who participated in the development of the game.
4500) This game gets a lot of mixed reviews, I think ND dropped the ball with delaying the game resulting in the leaks. I was prepared and open minded for the game. The story and certain aspects of the game could have been better executed, However, The game itself is enjoyable through and through. it's directed my emotions in ways that I can see the red lense and feel everything Ellie does. This game deserves to be played fully and thoroughly before being judged, much more critiqued. Tired of all the bandwagon hate it gets. Frustrating? Sure. I NEVER care to write reviews but **** this doesn't deserve the score it got and I am happy I kept my Collector's
4501) Don’t believe the negative user reviews. Check the dates for them being posted. These are people who watched or read the leaks, decided they hated it before playing it, and dropped a review the release date under the falsehood of having “completed” the game. From what I’ve read, the leaks only took you 3/4 of the way through the game and are filled with inaccurate information. True fans of the series never would have looked up potentially damaging spoilers as it is.
4502) This is the most technically accurate game I have ever played in terms of mechanics. There are features in this game I have never experienced in any other game in my life, it feels so real. Graphics and work gone into this game are incredible, attention to detail and acting blew my mind. The writing is very brave and real. There is no fan service it’s just gritty and emotional. I felt every step, walking in Ellie’s shoes along the way. I chuckled, I broke down and by the end I was reeling and emotionally spent, in the best way possible.
4503) I completed this game. And this already makes my opinion more valuable than most of those who put a rate here. The game is amazing. One of the best I've played!
4504) One of the most beautiful games with thoughtful character development, unbelievably smooth combat and great skill tree building.
4505) Regardless of the game's critics, who are mostly Xbox players, the last of us 2 is very great
4506) SPOILERS AHEAD,,The Last Of Us Part II Review,By Marcos Aquino,,If the death of Joel drives you off playing the game, you are not seeing the whole picture.,,For the sake of this review I will focus on the Story part, as is the part of the game more polarized, the rest (graphics, sound, game play) is also so **** awesome.,,Here are my 2 cents on this…,,For me Neil Druckmann is for videogames what Vince Gilligan is for tv series (or movies I loved El Camino), masters of narrative, and that may not be fair, as The Last Of Us Part II may become a precedent on how to deliver a story in any medium.,,The world portrayed in both parts of The Last of Us, is a violent one, instead of building a world together to face the Cordycep infection, a devastated mankind turned against each other, a regime based on fear by the Military, scarcity of food, fear, paved the path for the emergence of many factions, including the Fireflies, that opposed the “de facto” government of the Military (at this point the remnants of the USA government).,,Joel learned to thrive in this environment, he became a thug, smuggling, killing, that was his trade, and Tommy’s to before he left for Jackson. This antihero, who lost his daughter (Sara) to the military, enters in the journey of delivering Ellie across the country, we all know and love this journey, but the end is particularly important in order to grasp the extent of the story and why the death of Joel was not uncalled for, but rather intrinsic to the story that is being told to us.,,At the end of part 1, Joel takes the selfish decision of killing everyone in the Saint Mary Hospital to save Ellie, to whom he loves as a daughter (or at least at a later moment, but at that point he is very attached to her). The state of the person that Joel was at that point, driven with fact that he was still coping with the death of Sara (20 years or so later) gave little room of choice to Joel, in Part 2 he confesses Ellie that he would do it again. Was this a good choice?? Did those doctors deserved to die?.,,In this never ending circle of violence that the world of The Last of US portrays, each violent action has a consequence, we only saw one side of the coin in Part 1, and what the writers did here was showing that violence, however justified it may be, will only lead to more violence, more suffering, that is what justifies Ellie’s decision in the beach at the very end of Part II, this it what she realises at the very moment she sees flash of Joel playing guitar in the porch appeared in here mind (also a very important moment to understand the scope of what Joel did at the end of Part 1).,,The course of Abby’s life was forever altered at the moment Joel killed her father (the doctor at the end of part 1 named Jerry Anderson) her mission in life became at that moment, a quest for vengeance, her father, Dr. Anderson is portrayed in the few instances we get to see him, as a caring person, who was always trying to help everyone (including a zebra). Can her quest of vengeance really be unjustified?,,After that, she shaped her life (and body) for the sole purpose of avenging her fathers death. She couldn’t let go, she couldn’t forget, a new loop in the circle of violence that Joel started and ended with his death (Joel knew that time could come, he tells here “say whatever speech you have rehearsed” showing also no remorse). Killing Joel in the presence of Ellie and leaving her alive, created yet another quest for vengeance, couldn’t we agree that the same justification for Ellie to kill Abby, Abby had for killing Joel?,,And for me, this is why The Last of Us works so well, it shows that those terrible actions, for more justifiable that they seem, will only create a ripple effect, that sooner rather than later will catch on with you. Abby’s side of the story is crucial for understanding this, and why the whole plot of The Last of Us did not revolved around Joel being a beloved character or hero to some (he was absolutely not that) but extend of all the actions surrounding Ellie’s journey and their effect.,,At the end, Ellie chose to break that circle. Imagine if she had drowned Abby, she would have had to kill Lev, who basically saved her and Dina, asking Abby to stand back in the Theater back in Seattle. Otherwise a new loop in the circle of violence would have been created, now Lev seeking vengeance for the death of Abby and so forth.,,People should play this game with fresh eyes, there is a great story, delivered with an outstanding narrative and a positive message. One of my favorite games of all time!
4507) A technical achievement with a beautiful and heartbreaking story that explores the themes of hate and revenge. It will make you think and feel. It will make you question your choices as a player and reevaluate your feelings towards characters. This is a must have for anyone who likes their games ambitious and bold. You may not always accept the choices that certain characters make, you may subconsciously wish for a better outcome where everyone lives happily ever after, but you will not deny the sheer power of the story presented. Art's purpose is to make you feel. It can elevate you but it can also make you feel like **** This reflects the complexity of the human experience. Approach the game with an open mind and you will be rewarded.,,10/10
4508) Best game I've ever played. I didn't think any game could ever top the first Last of Us and as I played the game I often found myself wondering whether this sequel, while good, would be good enough to dethrone the first one. Throughout the story I found myself going back and forth with it like a love hate relationship. There were times where I just wanted to put the game down and stop playing because I didn't like the directions things were headed in. Despite that I kept playing because some part of me wanted to see it through to see if there would be redemption. In the end I didn't really get the satisfying redemption I was looking for but it made me question things like who's good and who is evil in the story. You may be the hero in one person's story but the villain in someone else's. No other game has ever drawn out so much emotion in me for the plight of fictional characters. Most movies don't even accomplish that much personal connection to the viewer. A true narrative masterpiece. Can't wait for Last of Us Part 3!
4509) Are you idiots? It the best gameI played ever. You see at things from another ankle after you played tlou2
4510) Flawed masterpiece, but a masterpiece nonetheless (...to me anyway)............................
4511) People are mad because a game about loss made you feel loss. Nobodies ever told a story this engaging before and is an unmissable experience.
4512) Naughty Dog did an incredible job! Thank you very much for this game!,1. Graphics - pleasing to the eye,2. Gameplay - is interesting and varied. I personally used almost the entire arsenal that I had.,3. History - is not so simple with that. You will understand this, as the developers planned, only when you start looking at Ellie from a different perspective.,introducing a new game character is very risky, but Naughty Dog were able to show and reveal the character very well! If you look at him not biased!,4. Character growth - Yes! in contrast to the first part.,So to enjoy the game, you need to play on high difficulty and not be biased to follow the story itself and consider the characters from a different angle.
4513) thanks, Neil Druckmann and Naughty Dog !!! Game of the year!!!,I look forward to continuing!!!,Thanks Guys!!!!
4514) I've only watched Jacksepticeye's Let's Play, this why I'm reviewing this game. I don't understand why people rating a 0 for just for the story that they didn't like. For those haven't bought this, this is such a great game. I f I get a job I'll buy this game, definitely.
4515) I love this game so much amazing story graphics are brilliant and good characters people giving it bad reviews wanna grow up It’s a game get a grip people
4516) I loved this game. The gameplay was excellent and the addition of the prone position and the tall and short grass for cover really added a great stealth dimension to the game that was absent in the first game. The story may be divisive but personally I loved it - I absolutely hated playing as Abby to start with but over time it humanises her character and makes you question Ellie's motives. In the end I was satisfied with how it all played out and felt like it was a fitting end to what was a great story.,,Technically this game is a masterpiece on 7 year old hard ware. The way they engineered the loading times after death in comparison to some other games was welcome. The motion capture and facial expression animations are unrivaled in gaming.
4517) !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Great game !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!@@@@@@
4518) Best game ever created everything is top notch the story, acting, music , cutscenes I just can't believe how brave the creators are.
4519) The story of the last of us is about feeling the sense of loss hatred and revenge. In this field this game succeeds in many ways as you go on your bloody path towards vengence for the death of joel you come to realise not everything is black and white. The mist powerful part of this story is when you let abby go showing how hard it is to just let go of your anger or risk losing everything i loved every minute in this world and the most shocking part for me is realising there are no real villains here just 2 people caught in a sea of hate and vengence.
4520) Dispite the critics, I understand the way the narrative took. Vengeance has two parts, different point of views, and that was the way the creators choose to tell this story. Looking forward to play it the second time to collect as much collectibles as I can.,I still miss Joel and the chemistry the first one lead us in to.
4521) What can I say that hasn’t been said already. I will keep this spoiler free because you have to play and experience this game to fully understand it, andd that’s why this game is brilliant. In no other video game (or any media format for that matter) have I felt so connected to a set of characters. The depth given the story and characters in this game is truly transcendent. Gameplay mechanics are what you could expect from ND, slightly tweaked for a much more satisfying gameplay experience. Starting the game with a knife does suck out some of the tension in clicker confrontations, but the difficulty curve shoots upwards, so don’t get too comfortable. Don’t be afraid to adjust the difficulty throughout your journey (the difficulty settings are a great evolution more games should adopt), but latter difficulty settings enhance the immersion and tension. I can’t think of the last time I’ve had so much post-game discussion and debate with friends, maybe Metal Gear Solid 2? After my first run though, I confidently moved this into my top 3 video games of all time. I will die on this hill.
4522) The best game I have ever played. To be honest the only game which shows to true nature of a person.,"No one is perfect" I think that's what they tried to show in this game. Everyone is a good person in someones story, and a bad person in someone else's. Must play it with an open mind. Revenge is a chain and in the end Ellie just broke it.
4523) This game cannot be fully understood by most people.It is a piece of art and it should be treated as such.There won't be a game as brave as this one ever again after all the hate it has gotten.I could go on but I suggest you try it for yourself as I did before judging it.
4524) A divisive game but one that is very important. What at first appears to be a rather generic plot that is told well, with an incredibly bold move in killing off a beloved character, transforms into something quite remarkable. I’ve never played a game before that is so provocative, ambitious, relevant, challenging and bold in its execution. It tests the very fabric of the players sense of morality and hits with a profound sentiment. The game is borderline Shakespearean in its approach to the human condition in a way that gaming could only attempt. A true testament in the evolution of gaming, I feel this title is further proof that gaming is the best platform for art in history. It’s a game you have to experience, watching it or reading a review doesn’t do it justice, because it is a story to provoke and test you the individual.
4525) I don't usually write reviews but I had to for this incredible game. I finished it two days ago and I still can't stop thinking about it. The attention to detail in the whole game and depth of the characters. Women looking and behaving like woman who are fighting for their lives and loved ones. The story. Wow the story. I had tears streaming down my face after the death of a loved character. I was worried I was going to break my controller with water damage. Just amazing. Thank you Naughty Dog it was worth the wait.
4526) Well worth the wait. Well done team Naughty Dog, you did the impossible-made it better then the first incredible entry.
4527) Great game, a lot of people hate it because the story is too dark and there is too many LGBT characters. But if you go in with an open mind and give the game a chance you'll see how beautiful it is
4528) I’m an graduated anthropologist, and Naughty Dog has created a work that speaks not only of inclusion as something superficial but of understanding otherness, which is perceived at every moment: in each menu, in its creative teams, in the ideas it exposes, in the story it tells. They has created a masterpiece among all, not for what he intends, but for what he does.,Congratulations! They are already part of contemporary history. No, it's more ... Much more. It has made me think and cry, smile and suffer. It has made me stop from my seat and reflect a lot. Few works do that, and I speak of every media.
4529) Some people hate it, some people love it, I was waiting for it for around 1 year and I can't say i am dissatisfied. I accept stuff how it is, so I generally accept everything even when i don't like it. Someone created it, i didn't, so it is his vision on how things are, if you don't like it create your own game and then you can say that this game is **** because you created something better. And then we will see how people like it. I really like this game even that i would like to change how things went, but I understand why it happened
4530) One of the best games I have ever played.,The story, and the Way they relæ, it’s simple put superb.,Graphics are the best the PS4 Can deliver.,Do not miss out. Do not pay attention to the **** ratings given by people, WHO cant handle playing a lgbt character.,Thors game deserves every gamers attention, as it is simple a tour de Force in storytelling and design.
4531) The story is actually really good, people just need to get over it and what happens and actually take in the games story for what it is. If you are holding off buying it then don't, buy the physical COMPLETE the game not just the first part and throw your dummy out and then if you don't like it sell it.
4532) An absolute achievement. The game pushes the envelope in every single category. This is no mere game. This is an interactive out of body experience. I've never played anything where I struggle to identify who the villain is - my character, or the character I'm fighting. Absolutely astonished that they pulled it off as well as they did. The narrative choices defy expectations and keep this game from becoming another cliché. It was a tour de force of emotion, and I fail to see how this won't be another game changer for the entire industry from Naughty Dog on par with Uncharted 2.
4533) Just awesome. One of the most perfect game of ps4. I love to play every part of this game
4534) MF Dinosaur！！！,The phenomenal writing will touch every player and won't leave an eye dry of tears. Combat and exploration are challenging and lead the player to use creativity and improvisation.
4535) This game is depressing right from the start but its not all about that.it tells a story about revenge and what it can do to a person and his/her life what can it lead to and that its not the only option. don't know why people hated it so much. yes i get that they toked the heartbreaking approach but that does not mean that its garbage in the end i was depressed and cried a few time but it was totally worth it. really love the ending and how Ellie grows. hope their is part 3.
4536) Game was very well executed, enjoyed throughly. Played through 30 hours of game play within 2.5 days. Highly reccomend.
4537) A awesome game, gameplay is awesome, i loved the history for me is my top 3 favorite game.
4538) Even though I had mixed feelings from the story, I think this is a sequel worth giving a chance. It is not the same vibe as the first one, but I think that's what Naughty Dog wanted to do & they delivered. Obviously, killing off one of the main character is a major risk, but he's still in the game and you see a lot of him anyway. I wasn't disappointed and don't understand the hate. It's a video game, not real life, you shouldn't be butthurt about fiction. The only issue for me was the flashbacks. I think the game would've been even more solid if the order was different (like getting to play Abby 1st so we don't feel bummed out about playing her for like 12h straight after playing Ellie). But for the rest? This game is a masterpiece. 10/10 cause it's my favorite 2 games! (TLOU & TLOU part2)
4539) Oh my god that was fookin epic!,Anger is a path to sadness and loss but wow, what a beautifully written path that was.........
4540) Best game of this generation, wonderful gameplay, best graphics I ever seen , the history is  great because this is only game that gave me various emotional feelings.
4541) People are so closed minded! This was an unbelievable story and it deserves praise. I think it is an accurate portrayal on how an apocalypse would be. Nobody is safe. No matter how much you've "bonded" with a character, they can always die. It was truly amazing.
4542) absolute work of art, brutal and heartbreaking experience, a masterpiece like nothing before.
4543) ABSOLUTE MASTERPIECE!!! Best game of the PS4 generation. I'm willing to bet in 5-10 years, this game will be looked upon as a benchmark in storytelling.
4544) What can I say?This game is amazing it will make you question every expectation you had when they first announced it. Play it and enjoy it with an open mind. This game elevates the videogame genre to a whole new level and I'm happy to have been able to play it, even if right now I can barely understand what I'm feeling after completing it , so many emotions and thoughts at the same time.
4545) The game is wonderful. You can feel multiple emotions in all seconds off this creation, and this is a history full of surprises e very well created, from start to the end. The gameplay's experiense is impressously imersive and beautiful in all senses. The history togheter with the graphics, sound effects and the many others details, make The Last Of Us PART 2 the greatest game of the year, and maybe, of all time.
4546) THE LAST OF US PART II immersed me in particular way that no other game has done before.  TLOU2 is a narrative that only can exist as a video game, is a survival horror in which graphics, sound, music, enemies and a bunch of other extremely detailed elements collided in an adventure that placed me under the skin of the controllable characters, and in a lot of moments I felt their emotions and senses as if their ware mine. Yes, the game can be a little cliche in a lot of moments and it does have a few writing issues (that are not that bad as people say), but I love the way the game made me participant in such a conflicting story that range between love, hate and all the other emotions that radiate from those two. The game really made me think about the importance of our actions as humans and how those actions determine our place in this world. Man, there is so much more I can write about, but I prefer people to experience it for themselves,,A 10/10 does not mean is a perfect game, there are no perfect games and there will never be, in this case I just think the game is an outstanding piece of media, but find a little silly to abstract a complete experience in just a simple number.,,Even tho this game was a wonderful experience for me, I completely understand how a lot of people can have mixed or negative opinions, to those people (and to the ones that watched it in a walkthrough video -nothing wrong with that-) I ask, please give a second opportunity to this game, not now but in the future and hopefully with a different perspective, maybe you will love it or maybe you will still hate it, but if you don't try... you will never know.,,And sorry if I made a spelling or grammatical error, english is not my first language.
4547) The storyline is amazing, this one of the best game in my life, so when it finished i was so sad because i knew that i couldn't see more episodes of TLOU
4548) I really loved the concept of switching out characters mid game. I got to understand the perspective of the "villiian" and realise that she was just the same as Ellie. So many people leaving bad reviews just can't get past the black and white / good guy / bad guy separation. Maybe move on from Disney and open your mind to something a bit more grown up.,,The gameplay was a bit too similar to the original but the world was just gorgeous. I found it a lot harder to get past some of the bosses than the original too.,,The story was really well done - it was a roller coaster of emotions. If you don't like feeling really really bad and really really sad...maybe not the game for you.
4549) TLOU 2 became my favourite game. This story did not leave indifferent. So Neil Druckmann thank you for this game.
4550) Got the platinum trophy yesterday,10/10 story,10/10 gameplay,10/10 acting,Naughty dog games tried something other game developers would never try but now they are getting hate from these stupid close minded fake fans.
4551) The most brutal and moving Game I've ever played in my 37 Years. A Masterpiece by Naughty Dog that is way ahead of it's time when it comes to storytelling. Technically astonishing.
4552) People who didn’t play the game.. please play the game before giving a rating.. it’s such a great game gameplay wise.. and as for Abby by the end of the game you actually care about her and understands her motivations. Love this game can’t wait for part 3
4553) One of the best games Playstation 4 has ever seen. Great work by Naughty Dog.
4554) All the people hating on this game are idiots. This game is a complete masterpiece and work of art! The first one was my all-time favorite video game until I played this one. the story and gameplay are so realistic and they actually found a way to make it better than the first one. Genius!
4555) The Last Of Us Part 2 is the most artistic masterpiece i have ever laid my hands on.,The environment and the level design in this game is crafted to such an incredible detail that makes it the most beautiful game on the PS4 right now and yes, even more so than Death Stranding.,The enemy AI design is something that is innovated in a never before seen approach which adds new behaviours and they are much more intelligent and cognitive which make you try out different scenarios and continuously change your position.,Now, let's talk about the story. The story indeed takes a darker turn but still have some very beautiful moments to balance out all the lows. This story captivates the reality and practicality of the situation the characters are in and tough choices they had to make in them. These choices also have consequences that cannot be undone.,Without spoiling the story, I would just say that the game lays out different perspective of the characters and justifies the path they take.,This is a very emotional journey that I recommend anyone with a PS4 to experience.
4556) A spectacular game. a masterpiece. A script and direction to match any hollywood super production. A cruel, violent and realistic story brought to a video game. Thank you Naughty for continuing to make this story great. Thank you for not succumbing to "fan service" and bringing us a game of this size. Unfortunately, a game with this depth and such a powerful message is something that most people don't know how to feel. This game is the best game that has ever been made on PS4 and probably in the history of video games. THANKS FOR THIS EXPERIENCE
4557) If it was very bad that the game deviates in theme and he script and plot, does not leave in my opinion, experience with reality, I lived in my own flesh in losing someone important of our family, but I remembered my experience with the game and it is reality, many people stigmatize it as the worst, for me it was a great experience, good This is a great game that makes me see reality and those were great
4558) The Last of Us apart 2 makes you question yourself and how you should feel about certain characters and situations in ways rarely seen by video games. It’s a bloody, brutal, and bleak game that is so visceral that you may feel Squeamish with the actions from characters. It’s the most beautiful game I’ve ever played. The lighting, atmosphere, and sound design are absolutely top notch. Naughty dog delivers again with Last of Us Part 2 that I definitely recommend. 10/10 a genuine masterpiece.
4559) The Last of Us Part II is a game that received a lot of criticism over its story. Some of it coming from a place of love and grief over losing Joel; some of it from anger at having to play part of the game as Abby - the girl that killed Joel. However, most of it just seems to be coming from people that have an animus toward either NaughtyDog, Neil Druckman or Sony. I have one question to everyone in the latter camp - if another studio, director, corporation developed this game would you have the same feelings about it? It all seems a bit manufactured at this point to me. All the outrage, all the bad review scores, the videos of people getting bent out of shape and rage quitting/trashing the game over its story or gameplay - it’s getting old. So here is my informed opinion on why this game is great. First, the story - let’s get it out of the way. Yes, Joel dies; yes, you play as his killer - Abby. None of that makes the story, or the game inherently bad. You might not like the fact Joel dies, you might not like being put into the shoes of Abby, but everything in the game works to craft a compelling narrative experience. Playing the game is essential to appreciating the story in this case as well; you have to be the one engaged in the action, controlling the characters and experiencing their joy, pain and loss right alongside them. Sharing in their triumphs and failures brings you closer to them, just like in TLoU. If you just passively watch the game’s cinematics instead of experiencing them after controlling the characters to that point, you miss out on the attachment you form... The bond you build. Even for me to describe my experience with the story would be too much to detail here. Instead, I will try to be brief; the story is one that is better experienced by actually playing through the game rather than reading a review of one persons opinions or watching someone else play the game just so you can see what happens next. Seriously, you may come away loving the story (as I did) or maybe you get done and you absolutely hate it (or possibly something in between). Either way you owe it to yourself to come to a conclusion on your own with respect to the story. Honestly, it is going to come down to your taste for stories like this. Next is the gameplay, all I have to say here is it is better in every way over the first one. Shooting feels improved with better hit and kill indicators, less general sway to weapons when aiming, expanded and improved crafting, character skills and weapon upgrading. Environments are more beautiful with so much more details packed into every square block of downtown Seattle. Enemies show entrance and exit wounds after being shot, especially in the head. Throw an explosive at them and they will probably be torn apart as legs and viscera go flying all around. These violent expressions are probably why the combat/gunplay feels so damn fun. You relish scavenging for supplies because you know it means you will get more parts to upgrade your weapons; or maybe you find supplements that give you new abilities to keep a healthy supply of bombs and trap mines crafted and in you inventory. Not to mention this game has the most extensive accessibility and gameplay customization options I have ever seen. It is basically designed to be playable even if you are deaf and blind... So yeah. This game does so much better for the actual gameplay. I think this is not debatable at all. So if you are a fan of the gameplay in the first title, this one will leave you breathless and yearning for more. Overall, the game does play somewhat differently from the first, but there is enough in common, that it makes you feel right at home. I will try to wrap this up with some of my favorite things that the game delivered for me. 1. Incredible story that griped me and had me exploring my emotions and re-evaluating my stance on characters. 2. Combat is beautifully violent and such a pleasure to start mastering to develop your own tactical approach to encounters. 3. The music is so sharp and only serves to enhance the tone and attitude the game is evoking. 4. Top notch environments with stunning scenery, characters and graphics. This game will hold the spot as favorite so far this year. So I really hope this helps you decide on whether to pick it up or not. If you do/did and the story is wearing on you, understand it is supposed to, but if you really don’t like it - I am sorry. I know it might not be for everyone, but thankfully you can skip cutscenes and pretend it didn’t happen. Now if you don’t like the gameplay/were only in it for the story... this is your cue to avoid the game then. Hopefully, if that’s the case, you didn’t commit to buying it outright and just rented a copy/borrowed from a friend. I seriously love this game and hope with time people go back and revisit it with a fresh perspective and give the story a chance; I think there will be a newfound love for TLoU pt II
4560) The good story that touch you heart. Even if, we don't want this game, we don't want what there happens, that was awesome!
4561) I don't know why people are hating on the game. The story, the gameplay are awesome! If you read this review, don't listen to people. Just buy the game and see for yourself.
4562) Amazing game 10/10 Thus game is truly a masterpiece is all aspects, the story is amazing the gameplay is great and the animations are top notch. Would recommend anyone play this
4563) It was the best game in terms of story, graphics, and ending I've ever experienced, thanks to Neil Drakeman.   (the last of us part ll  The best game of the year.)
4564) Gameplay mechanics: 10   |   Graphics: 10   |   Music: 10   |    History: 9.5 (a rollercoaster of emotions)
4565) Amazing game! It's everything I wanted it to be and more. Thank you Naughty dog!,It crazy how many settings there are, you can really costum the game as you like it. My friend has a hard time seeing dark colors, but the game allows him to apply vision accessibility preset.
4566) An emotional rollercoaster that doesn't always hit the mark with what it tries to pull off. It does, however, provide enough amazing highs to outweigh its unfortunate lows. Respect to Naughty Dog for pulling this off!
4567) A masterpiece, people that didn’t like this game, does not have enough maturity for the game.
4568) One of the best games I’ve played in my life. Excellent writting and fantastic message about revenge, forgviness and empathy. Haters that refuse to play the game and come here just to give a zero are just idiots.
4569) Thank you naugthy dog.,Best feels ever.,Don't listen the morons.,I never experience a game like this.
4570) One of the best games I have ever played. Absolutely gorgeous design mixed with a thick atmosphere makes for a great sequel to a great game. Kudos to Naughty Dog!
4571) This game is freaking art. It made my stomach twist but it also made me feel peaceful and oh goodness i don't think I've ever connected with characters in a video as much I have in this game(and its predecessor of course). Wow what a ride. Definitely not a joyride but when we can call a movie like Joker art, we call this game art too. Naughty Dog took a huge leap of faith with this one
4572) The best game that I've played in my all life,Certainly the winner of the game of the year 2020
4573) Incredible game that will make you feel every emotion. The characters pull you in and make you care! The game is horrific yes, brutal, visceral, terrifying, but AMAZING. The graphics and small details are truly sublime. 10/10
4574) One of the best visual games ever released, lots of jump scares and great gameplay, story is not what i expected, i enjoyed playing it with lots of big moments, but would of preferred a different outcome
4575) The last of us has did a great job, the end of the game has a lot of meaning, i think that is the perfect end so far!! The end has deviding gamer into 2 diffent ways, someone thinks that it's should end like that.the other think not,they think john death not for highly sacrifice or something like that...But i think we have to look some thing in 2 different ways
4576) Amazing in all parts, If you can't understand the history. My condolences! Surely the GOTY
4577) The amount of people who bombarded the reviews of this game without even playing it is ridiculous, petty and just plain sad. If you were actually to play the game you would see it for it's amazing graphics, game play, lighting, models, animations, story line etc. It's embarrassing to see some of these peoples negative reviews without real reasoning. What a shame.
4578) Naughty dog made a bold choice. This game is not a fan service. The story is great. The characters are great. Love Ellie and Abby. 10/10,The best game of this generation.
4579) Very cool game, i'm enjoying it every minute. Story is very interesting, not as bad as everyone said.
4580) This game is truly staggering! A thing of beauty.,It involves some remarkable gameplay and insane graphics. I started this game with very high expectations after the first being my favourite game ever. There are so many twists and turns throughout and it takes you on a journey far from what was expected. If you play part 2 with a hint of attachment to the first then I’m afraid you may not enjoy it as much as I have. It requires a little open-mindness and to kind of forget the first game for a sec, I’ll admit i struggled to do this and about halfway through it was very hard to play. But I stuck at it and I’m glad I did. You are forced to see things differently and who or what you thought was the evil in the game really isn’t. A true masterpiece. Well done NaughtyDog!
4581) The game is wonderful, it is so sad that it has a low score in this category due to intolerant people, groups of people who have not played the game got together to give a minimum rating to the game for the simple fact that the story takes a different direction than they did expected.,The game has perfect story, gameplay and graphics, it is definitely the best game of the generation and probably the best game I have ever played in my life, my first console was the PS1 and to see such a perfect game closing the PS4 generation is breathtaking, congratulations to the developers and Naughty Dog
4582) It took me a. 37h to beat the game and its a lot for an adventure game. That's why my review took so long.,GRAFICS: Its a masterpiece, I played it on my basic ps4 and I dint know my old box can do that thing. Environments are detailed, characters are well crafted and the animation is superb.,GAMEPLAY: there no much difference to the 1 game, but it improves in all aspects. The remarkable animations and AI allows you to diversify your gameplay.,STORY: don't hate me, but I like it. I could predict the story in the 1st game so I wasn't surprised at the end, but in the 2nd it was a rollercoster. Yes, there were made, some drastic decision... but tool is not a story with happy endings... and no I was not paid to say it, I just enjoy games and I don't take my feelings to the real life (yup talking to the hate mob who threatens the creators... get a life a real one)
4583) I see a lot of people in metacritics complaining about the game's history, how horrible it is and its the worst ending of all videogame industry. honestly I loved the game, I love how you get upset with Abby in the beginning for killing the joel, but you start to sympathize with her during the game because even if they don’t accept, she had her reasons for doing what she did, not only with her but with her friends also mainly with Alice (the dog) when you play with Ellie and you go to the Aquarium I remember that I killed that dog and I didn't have any remorse for it but later on I was very sad when I went there with Abby and I realized that it was Alice that I had killed.At first I believed that ellie was right with her mission but every time I progressed in the story I start to see that it wasn´t doing her well because she didn´t care about anything expect her and her mission, she didn't care about Tommy, Jesse, and even Dina, she left Dina and her son to go look for Abby, we see throughout history how selfish Ellie is , and I think in the end she realizes that when she is playing guitar in the empty house. But in summary I think people didn´t like the game because it didn't end like they wanted, they wanted a happy ending but this game is not about that, its about explaining to a person that in revenge nobody is right or wrong, revenge will not bring you comfort or happiness, only more sadness and destruction and i loved the last fight you see ellie completely insane trying to kill Abby and when she is about to do it she has a quick flashback of joel playing guitar and she lets her go, you later see that this scene that she remembered was the scene that Ellie forgives joel for what he did and this is such a strong scene that I admit, I cried a lot, Ellie being able to forgive Abby for what she did its really sad but good , she has to live with the consequences of her actions but now she can live in peace . remember its easier to suffer than to forgive , Yes i give this game a 10/10,,Thanks for reading and have a nice day
4584) A masterpiece but not on par with part 1(maybe because it's too depressing). A bold storytelling unlike any story game I've ever played. Minus the execution of some stuff that kinda don't make sense in the world of the last of us, everything else is pure perfection. Definitely a groundbreaking game.
4585) I have 10 hours gameplay so far and the game is just amazing, dont care about homophobics haters that didnt even played the game. Speaking about the final plot in less then 1 hour launch game.
4586) Well. This game was a lot to digest. What an emotional rollercoaster it was. There are so many elements which make it **** awesome. The story is very well written and the flashback which explain so much about part 1 are so good to watch, after all these questions you get after part 1. It was good to know that Joel finally told Ellie the truth, as painful as it was. It was tough to watch her struggle about this. The character development of Ellie is made so well. To me it shows she is having many flaws. She needs to get revenge, even after she is spared by Abby twice, she keeps going back. It is something so stupid, but it shows about her character, how much pain she has from Joels death.,Something else I really liked was the fact you first hate Abby, but then you gain more sympathy from her, after playing her part. This is something I didn't see in many games, only in Heavy Rain and Detroit: Become Human, as I can remember now. It gives a very interesting twist to the good/bad side of a game.,The character of Joel is also very well written. He has a lot of internal struggles, especially his love for ellie which even made him betray her. It is tough to see, but it really explains why he does what he does. He cares for her so much, he tries to make her have a great life, teach her guitar and all that. She is his ''new'' daughter and he doesnt want to lose one again. The only thing I don't get is why he trusted Abby, a complete stranger.,,What I also liked a lot was the intensity in some battles. Some get pretty tough and the feeling to be trapped with only 3 bullets and one bottle is quite terrifying. Especially when you are in a dark area with only infected, who are running **** fast. THe part that reaaaally gave me the creeps was abby in the basement of the hospital. It was really horrific, but I loved it so much. And all of the weapons you can use, of which the most brutal ones were definitely the pipe bombs, the trap mines and the flamethrower (so glad it returned).,,About the battles: I feel there were not as much intense battles as in part 1, since the pacing in the game is quite slow. For me, there could have been some more. However, the pacing is very important. It creates a lot of depth in the story, and it puts all the pieces of the puzzle together. I reaaally love the moment when Ellie and Joel are in the history museum. I also was blown away by the liveliness of the stadium were Abby and her group lives. And the part very high up in the sky with all the bridges, **** wonderful,Now I am touching to another part I **** loved. The graphics and the entire atmosphere. I kept getting surprised and blown away by the tremendous detail of anything and everything. Sometimes it is only small things, a gesture, someone making a small comment, the anxiety, fear or anger in the characters face and body language. I loved the fact how much despair and anger there was in ellies face. Theres not much happiness in her, but this is not strange if you look at what happened to her.,,Some things that I didnt like: sometimes you are walking around for ages trying to figure out what you have to do. It is kind of frustrating. However, it could also be just me. Some battles are designed kind of poorly, for example the one with the sniper, it is so easy to get hit and there not that much fun in playing this battle, since the best way is to stay in the back all the time. Some melee combats with these ''smart'' infected, as well as the combats between ellie and abby are very unsatifying and somewhat frustrating. THe only skill you learn is how to press the right buttons at the right time, instead of having a proper battle. What put me off as well is the repetition and somewhat unbelievabilty of the story. There is really not a lot of variation in the battles. And revenge as the primary motif in this game gets kind of hard to believe. People risking their lifes over and over again to kill 1 person. And Abby saving some strangers and even risking her life to get medical supplies in the darkest place of a hospital gets kind of unbelievable as well. Even more that she betrays her whole faction which is suicide anyway. I just don get it. The only valid reason for her to break the rules is to rescue her boyfriend. But thats all. The environment and the intense moments make up for this to some extent. But sometimes it really felt they only made you play a section because it is epic to play, rather than contributing to the story.,,A final thing I loved a lot is the dark, depressing vibe in the whole game. Sure, I didnt like Joels death at all. But this whole world is **** up anyway. It is not a fairytale. The story is not made primarily for the player to play what is happy and satisfying for them. People die, people do **** up things, people get twisted minds and all that. But they keep going. That what I loved about part 1 and about part 2 as well.,,All in all a game that gripped me from beginning to end.
4587) People who hate on this game and say that it is poorly written is clearly stuck with Hollywood endings. This is a post-apocalyptic world where it is dark and unsafe. I really really appreciate how this game is so close to reality especially how amazing the graphics and sounds are. It is true that the way ND told the story may not work for everybody but it worked for me. I was so emotionally attached to the characters, though there are some that need more spotlight like Jesse. But nonetheless, I was wrecked for days after playing it.,,Like what Neil explained Joel felt safe for years, he got used in saving people and bringing them in Jackson. After many years of feeling safe and comfort, of course, there will be moments where you'll let your guard down. Besides, though his intentions of saving Ellie is good but let's face it, what he did was wrong.... killing a bunch of people and loses the chance of having a cure. ND left us with Part 1 thinking if Joel's actions were justifiable. It felt so badass and right at the time so it didn't matter until we got a part 2. In this world, you will not die in a heroic/honorable way you imagined, you just die and sometimes it is because of the choices you made in the past.,,I understand that it would be very difficult to play as Abby after what just happened. I even killed her on purpose in the first few minutes but in order to really feel and fully experience what ND prepared for us, we just have to have an open mind. I honestly got tired playing as her after her Day 1 and really want to be back as Ellie but again, I allowed myself to experience the game and the emotions. Only at the theater scene I realized I was attached to Abby. I didn't want her to die but I also didn't want Ellie to die (but I let Ellie shoot Abby a few times just to get even haha). ND really did a bold move there, letting players think that you'd kill Ellie as Abby. It tore me apart, I was so confused. Every punch hurts. But that is also brilliant! Never have I played a game that made me feel that way, that played with my emotions like that.,,Ellie already have a great life with Dina and JJ until Tommy showed up. I was shocked to see that many people didn't get why Ellie chose to go after Abby. I mean given the trauma she has, the mock she received from Tommy and knowing that there is still this lingering feeling in your chest that you could do something to make it stop. That is enough reason to blindside me of what is in front of me and what I have to lose. And people ask why she didn't kill Abby? Did you guys look how shook she was after killing Nora, Owen and Mel? And look at Abby and Lev. Ellie knows she's not a bad person and killing Abby will lose the last humanity left in her. Joel wouldn't want this for her too.,,Sometimes, we think that what we are doing is right but you'll only realize that it is wrong once you are there at that very moment.,,I think that's what happened, that's why she didn't do it. It's just depressing to see that she had to lose everything to see that. But that's what makes this game so realistic. In reality, you make bad decisions and you face the consequences.
4588) This game is a whole new generation of greatness. A game where it shows players true colors of who wants to do this and who don't. Those who didn't get what they wanted in the game gave this game a negative review. Those who are glad it didn't happen sees the message.
4589) I strongly disagree with all the negative reviews. Characters are logical and story is touching. I literally cried...
4590) We need more games like this. Pure art, amazing story. A lot of respect for the characters and the franchise overall. A legend.
4591) The Last of Us Part II have the best gameplay in the world of games. The story is so massive, dark and sadness. This game actually is the best of my life. Amazing graphics and facials expressions. I love this game.
4592) The Last of Us 2 its amazing game than a have to playing in this year, the history in the first game its about love, in this sequel its about revenge, brutal violence.... and the central two characters was connected for some reason to reflect in your lives in the end. This game its awesome!
4593) this is one of my favorite games i have ever played. i do love how immersive the story is.
4594) By far the greatest accomplishment in interactive media. If there ever was a game to be called "masterpiece", this is it.,Completely aside from its story (which is one of the all time classics too), it's literally the best made game ever made (so far). Just like with every ND game before, the amount of love to detail is beyond insane and sets it apart from every other experience out there. Pared with some of the best and most engaging gameplays there ever was.,,PS: The guitar scenes alone would make this a 10.
4595) A MEGA MASTER GAME ♡♡♡♡♡♡♡♡ Its really sad game but its not bad ,dont listen 2 haters its true ellie and abby lost everyone but its a perfect story all dtime 4 F.... EVER ♡☆♡
4596) Naughty Dog’s bravest, darkest masterpiece to date and one of the greatest games of this generation.
4597) The best for all time is the last of us part 2 for ever . Believe it.for ever
4598) A worthy sequel to the original, Naughty Dog truly takes gaming to the next level with such an improvement to the first in every aspect. When you look for quality single player games The Last of Us Part 2 truly delivers. From outstanding artificial intelligence testing your grit to mesmerising environments that leave you speechless and to a bold story that delivers its lessons and its theme to the utmost best this game is Naughty Dog’s finest piece and probably the best game to grace the PlayStation console. Hoping for a 3rd part!!!
4599) This game is a masterpiece. Technically is absolutely fantastic. I can´t name a single game that comes close in quality terms. The graphics take the PS4 to another level, the ambience is superb and the gameplay (especially if you like the first game) is very good. All that remains is the story, the theme of all controversy.,To some will be great, to some is disappointment, it all depends on how your feelings work. I started in one position view and I ended in another way different, that means the story did its purpose. I love all characters and some I thought I would hate forever. This is TLOU level of writing, hard, painful but in the end... human. A great, great game...
4600) Excelente game, not for childs and young people. A great history, gameplay, scenarios, im very proud yo play this Beauty.
4601) Beautiful, nearly perfect on everything it tries to do, the story wraps up perfectly and anyone who actually cares about these caracters and has played the whole game will love it. Naughty Dog has made yet another masterpiece and it surpassed the first game for me as the best game I've ever played. Don't listen to the haters, they have no idea what they're saying, just play this beautiful incredible game.
4602) I don’t normally do reviews but so many people are talking smack about this game. This game is amazing. Buy it and play it for yourself. Don’t listen to all the **** negativity on the internet.
4603) Absolute masterpiece from Naughty Dog, improves on the original in every way.
4604) Sadly gaming culture isn´t as reflected is it wants to be and can´t handle psychological ambivalence all that well. Storytelling in gaming hasn´t come very far. You find these kinds of narrative structures in arthouse cinema for decades. I think this game was in a way too progressive for it´s audience. Despite it being so easy to criticize game journalists and critics i think people miss to critique the problematic culture of gaming. Also i really love Joel but he is a fictional character, loss however is a real thing. As someone that has been dealing with loss a lot this game helped me cuz i was able to strongly identify with the feeling to chase relieve and try everything to get a loved one back through certain actions. I think many people out there hating this game don´t actually really understand it and the emotional ambivalence it deals with. In my opinion this game is a progressive masterpiece and the reason it is so controversial comes from the very fact that it’s too progressive for the very culture that consumes it. It will someday be remembered as being way ahead of its time!!!
4605) Amazing game that deserves the playthrough! Stunning visuals with a story that will challenge your emotions to the max.
4606) this game is a masterpiece. loved it completely and i recommend it to anyone who is into action adventure games.
4607) It’s hard to put into words how much this game means to me now. This is one of the most powerful impacts I've experienced in recent years. The story of revenge turns into a story of how to find peace in your soul. To do this despite the despair that is happening inside you after the loss of the most precious person to you. Refuse obsession with taking other people's lives in an attempt to drown out the pain. Finding forgiveness for your enemies and helping someone who needs help is the best remedy in the end for you. To realize in the end that salvation in forgiveness.
4608) The Last of Us Part II: "Before you embark on a journey of revenge, dig two graves." ~Confucius,!This Review contains major spoilers!,Seriously: If you plan on playing The Last of Us II avoid spoilers! It will ruin this amazing experience for you. You still might not enjoy this sequel in the end, but this game derves an "open-minded" and unprejudiced approach.,(I'm not a native, so please excuse my English),To begin with I want to thank Naughtydog for both The Last of Us and The Last of Us II as these games have touched me and made me tear up like no other game. I do not think that you deserve all this hate. You have put together an amazingly well crafted, detailed and emotional game. Now there is some valid critissism to this game, it is far from perfect (but than again what game isn't), which I will adress later. As I mentioned the The Last of Us series is extremly emotional so I really wasn't suprised that the sequel to one of the most beloved games turned out to be this controfersial and polarizing. This game will make you feel uncomfortable, this game will make you furious and this game might even make you grief but that's what makes it uniquely emotional (at least for me)! Don't get me started on homphobic and hateful comments, but fortunately this is only a (very loud) minortity. Nevertheless these comments have to be adressed and condemned!,Just to get this out of the way: I can 100 % understand if you did not enjoy the game, this is not a guaranteed 10/10 game. This game is extremly controversial, as your experience will largely depend on how you fell about Joel's death, you having to play as Abby and the character's "experimental" development. Will you get snapped out of the story and remain mad at the developers or will you be abel to lose yourself in the story anyways? Well to be honest whilst playing the game I sometimes also felt conflicted about the choices that were made. But ultimately I accepted the coices and had my most immersive gaming-expierence ever, which propably would have not been as easy if I hadn't avoided spoilers. So as I said I do respect if you didn't like the game, but at least give Naughtydog credit for the amazing production value and all the work that has been put into the game, it's not a 0/10 game.,But now let's get to the point. What did and didn't I like about the Last of Us II:,(+) Emmersive world,(+) Emotional and innovative story,"If I ever were to lose you, I'd surly lose myself",After losing Joel Ellie was taken the chance of forgiving and making things right with Joel, which is not only extremly depressing from Ellie's point of view but also for the player himself. We immediately feel fury and anger arising, we want to do Joel justice by killing Abby. But as the story progresses we have to witness that the Ellie we learned to love is slowly alienating from herselve. She is on the verge of becoming another humanlike, murdering monster roaming the post-apocalyptic world. Once it was Ellie who reminded Joel of the beauty and innocence in the world now she is the one "descending into hell". Again and again do Ellie and Abby meet but Ellie never gets the chance of taking revenge. It isn't until the end that Ellie has Abby's life "hanging by a threat". But in that very moment her last moments with Joel came to her mind, moments not filled with hatred but with forgivness. Ellie lost loved ones, she abandoned family and home, she brought suffering into the world but she has not fully lost herself. A small part of her did not fall victim to her vengefulness, she did do Joe right in letting humaneness prevail over hatred.,The Last of Us II was a challenge indeed. Was I myselfe able to overcome my grief and forgive Abby? Lukily Yes. Do I understand it when people have a problem with this game? Absolutly! Did I expect this game? No! Did I want this game? No! Do I whish the Story had turned out differently? Yes! Do I wish Ellie had crawled back into bed with JJ and Dina? Of course! But was this the most emotional gaming-expierence I ever had? Most definitly!,(+) Improved gameplay,(+) Amazing graphics,I think this is something we can all agree upon. This game is simply gorgeous. Whether you're looking at snowy landscapes, rainy Seattle or Ellie's and Dina's fairytale-like farm it will leave you breathless.,(+) Outsanding level-design,(+) The last of us is as charming as ever,Did anyone not have a big smile on his face whilst playing the Joel and Ellie flashbacks or as we first explored the streets of Jackson or as we realized Ellie and Dina had started a family together...?,(+/-) Joe's death feels rushed,(+/-) Sometimes feels emotionally manipulative,(-) Too much looting,(-) Sometimes overdramatic and lessing subtle,In conclusion The Last of Us II is, in my opinion, a well crafted, extremly emotional and human, inperfect non the less, masterpiece. It left me crying, raging, griefing and blissfully smiling. Simply amazing!,Thank you Naughtydog!
4609) Brilliant characters, gripping narrative, breathtaking visuals, and visceral gameplay. I recommend playing on the higher difficulty settings for maximum potential.
4610) After 4 years of hype and knowing that I expected something completely different, I am happy to know that all this time was worth it. Half the trophies and 22 hours of games and I still left half of the collectibles behind. And most important of all? I already want to play again.,I think it is important to highlight some mistakes right away: Naughty Dog lied a lot in their trailers, something that is certainly part of the fan base's negative notes. But even though I was mistaken when buying the game, I was not disappointed in the least. If the game was broken I would understand it, but the big change was the story, which brought something more engaging and the most important of all: something different from anything I've ever seen. I was never a big fan of games, I never cared who I killed or why I was doing that, TLOU P2 showed me why I do this and most impressively, that I should feel guilty about those deaths and that all actions have a reaction.,Telling the story from two points of view was an excellent move by ND and involved me more in the story. The gameplay was incredibly perfect and fits perfectly with what the game proposes. The violence that the game shows is a faithful reflection of what an apocalypse would be where a small survivor like Ellie would have to do to survive and that makes his actions heavier and more monstrous.,Something that I think is important is not to get carried away by the negative criticism for the "fan base", because I read several and I conclude that not all of them are of importance since the only argument is that the game would be bad or because of a lesbian relationship , which I think complaining about is backward behavior and shouldn't affect the game's evaluation.,I claim without the slightest fear that The Last of Us Part II is one of, if not the most perfect game I've played. For the first time in a long time, my actions at stake have influenced my thinking in real life, to the point of making me feel like a terrible person at certain times and a good person at others. Your attitudes matter, and caring for others too, revenge is something that consumes your soul and this game shows you how. it is totally worth playing and I recommend it without a doubt.
4611) The most ambitious game I ever played,,First of all, this game is amazing, every note has a story to find out like Boris one, every poster has a reference to the old tlou or an Easter egg, it let's you feel the pain, it makes you sad and let you cry. The story is unique since the Joel death till the ending when Ellie forgives Abby, but then Ellie lost everything, you can feel the same way as every character does,This is the game.
4612) It was a very intense experience, a really good game. The duality established in the game is excellent.
4613) It's the best conclusion for the first part. I cried a lot and emotionally attracted to ellie and Abbey.,Story 10/10,Gameplay 10/10,Soundtracks 10/10,Graphics 10/10,There are no mistakes
4614) Bold, masterfull storytelling. Ground breaking visuals. A must play.  Naughty dog has trul outdone themselves for a true swan song to end an amazing console generation
4615) This game is truly a masterpiece.,The graphics, acting and just overall gameplay is absolutely stunning, and the narrative is excellent, putting you through one hell of an emotional rollarcoaster. This game really can't get high enough praise, and really was worth the 7 year wait.
4616) This game is so amazing! Beautiful graphics, so realistic, very good gameplay and the soundtrack is perfect with the context. I've felt so many emotions: anxiety, sadness, sweetness and anger.,The level design for me is very impressive, very enjoyable.,About the "exploration time", it's really funny to explore all the places to find documents and more.,,About the story, I think it have a very deep meaning. It's cool that this game let you see and understand both motivation about Ellie and Abby, I've really enjoyed that,,This is surely one of the best game I've ever played. Good job ND
4617) This games story, although divisive, is fantastic! Many people have made snap judgements about the games story before actually playing it for themselves. If the leaks didn’t come out and people went into the game with open minds they might have different options and they might have had a easier time seeing what the game was showing them.
4618) Fantastic game, the morel of the story is something not seen often, and it's very well done.
4619) If you allow yourself to truly embark in this history, it becomes an unforgettable experience and one of the deepest things you’ll ever experience in your life. No doubt that’s the best game I’ve ever played.
4620) This game was beautifully made. For the people that see or think of it as a “poorly written revenge plot cliche” the game went over your head. Yes, the plot is about revenge, but the story is about Ellie’s grief just as the first Last of Us was about Joel’s grief. The first game mirrors the second game in that regard. The first Last of Us game is the whole “cure for mankind zombie apocalypse cliche” plot, but the story is about Joel’s grief. The Last of Us part 2 makes you walk in Abby’s shoes who is essentially in the same boat as Ellie in the beginning of the game. And if by the end of the game, you still want to kill Abby, I’m sorry to say that you might’ve beat the game physically, but you didn’t win the game Naughty Dog was playing with your heart or mind. This other review can explain this a lot better so i’ll link it. But I’ll leave you with a thought from that review. There is no difficulty setting in the game or in life, that makes forgiving someone easier. While The Last of Us part 2 has flaws mechanically, the story is intricate and painful. It’s supposed to hit you hard emotionally and essentially tether you to Ellie. Amazing story, amazing graphics, 10/10 for me.
4621) Best game Evert!! The story is perfect. The Last of Us Part 2 is a stunning achievement in every sense of the word. From the beautiful, detailed world to the nail biting moment to moment gameplay, there is nothing quite like it. With an emotional story to boot and some of the most beautiful environments ever created, Naughty Dog has created another masterpiece
4622) Simply the best. It was an emotionally challenging game that pushed the limits of what narrative video games do.
4623) This game was ground breaking, and the story was so impactful that I’m still thinking about weeks after I beat it. It doesn’t hold your hand, and it’s dark realism will be hard for many to swallow.
4624) People are only bashing this game because of the spoilers. The game is really good and the story also even though snowflakes can't handle their little feelings.
4625) One of the greatest games I have played in a while. It was like a drama. I let you suffer but in a positive way. 10/10 Thank you Naught dog!
4626) An absolute masterpiece! What Naughty Dogs has created is beyond incredible, and I think that this is truly the beginning of the next stage of what video games can be when done properly. A very worthy sequel, and a very great story! Definitely recommend!
4627) This is the only game I have ever played where at the beginning I was killing everyone in my way and at the end I was intentionally avoiding conflicts. Too bad for those who are too stubborn to see from other's perspective. This game really was developed for a certain persona.
4628) This game is one of the best in the last 60 years. Its gameplay is solid and definitely fun! When carrying each gun you can really sense their weight. The in-game graphic is breathtaking, from lightening to objects' textures to NPC meshes. The cutscenes are a jaw-drop thanks to the meticulous and deep work the animators put in the facial expressions.,Sound design and music are really well balanced and timed throughout the entire gameplay. They drop you into the environment as if you were living every MC's breaths.,And now the crucial point: the Story. The nonlinear narrative is so well done that I think it's the strength of this game. Two parallel stories told one after the other to challenge the player. They wanted us to wear the shoes of 'the bad guy'. But we quickly realize that there's no hero, there's no villain, there are just people surviving a world that has lost rules and civilization. Everyone fights its own battle for their own sake. Joel's death wasn't epic. Ellie's desire for revenge wasn't fulfilled. And that's the best they could do! Death isn't epic. There's no glorious (Marvel like) death here, there is just a cold butchered body. Even if I loved Joel in TLoU and I'd have loved to play him more.,But I don't buy videogames to play my story. I can live my story in my dreams. When I buy a game I want it to surprise me, to encourage me to see things from different points of view. Otherwise, I will always be blind.,,10/10 deserved
4629) What an incredible game, what a fantastic and captivating story. Without a doubt one of the best I've ever played in my life.
4630) When Joel got murdered I was so pissed, I was ready to jump on here and give it a big fat 0 to this game. But once you play and see both sides of the story, if I was to put myself in their shoes I understand their motives. Felt very conflicted towards the end if I wanted Ellie to kill Abby or not, at the end I was ok with either or. Anyhow, love it or hate it is a very complex and detailed story that’s worth experiencing. Everything else in the game is amazing too; graphics, sound are among the best. Great gameplay but even though it might feel repetitive at times, the script is so vast that every encountered feels different as you progress through the story. Thought to be honest gameplay to me was a bit boring, but that’s because I suck at stealth, if I had more creativity I can see how that would been more fun, but I get spotted early on, chose a corner where I can’t be cornered and I blast them all away. Love it or hate it, this is a game that every one should experience, whatever your emotional journey will be, it will be worth it
4631) Not as good as the first. But if you read the leaks and didn’t like them, the game’s not for you. At least not at 60$ but maybe on discount. I personally wasn’t a fan of the decision but still accepted it. I think you know what I’m talking about but if you don’t then lucky you
4632) Game of the generation. One the most important games ever made. Play this even if you don’t love games. Art at its purest.
4633) This was incredible journey. Would have rated it 9 if not for review bombing crowd. Don't listen to them and experience it yourself
4634) This was such a great game. You need to play it with an open mind and without any preconceived notion. There were unexpected twists along the way that made this journey a captivating one. Highly recommend this to anyone who likes well made story-driven games.
4635) brilliant game, this game is about pain, choice, soul, cruelty and forgiveness.  the feeling that I didn’t play the game, but she played me 12/10
4636) Gorgeous visuals and gives an actual experience when it comes down to the story. I've not done a lot of lurking as far as reading other people's reviews yet but here's my detailed non spoiler review. I believe that the story has branched very well from its first game. The details are amazing. The thoroughness of the game play is fantastic. There truly are just so many different ways to approach situations. Enemies will interact with each other, they emote when they are hurt or killed. There is so much attention to detail its really amazing. There is a character who shows what seems to be PTSD and as someone who also has PTSD it was very realistic and relateable. It was animated wonderfully, almost too well. I'm glad that people can play this game and experience that and hopefully feel how important it is to the character. The story is so great when you take your time with this game. There are many things that one can miss if they choose to blow through the game very quickly.  My recommendation is to read all the notes you can and become invested and immersed in the world.
4637) The Last of Us Part II is a brutal, twisted and divisive masterpiece. I've been waiting 6 years to play this new game and I was not disappointed. The gameplay was incredible, graphics were unbelievable, music was beautiful yet daunting; but I want to focus on the story because this is where it trips most people. Part II is incomparable to its predecessor due to an entirely different narrative perspective and theme. Naughty Dog takes story telling to a whole new level in the gaming industry where other franchises are too afraid to touch. The direction they took was very admirable and respectable.,Part I crafts a beautiful father-daughter relationship from complete strangers. I love that Part II isn’t a repetition of that same idea. Instead of growing Joel and Ellie's relationship, they sadistically fueled their fans with anger and turmoil from the get-go to prove that they are willing to take risks. As disheartening and totally gruesome as Joel's death was, I didn't want to give up on the game just because my favorite character was gone. I wanted to take revenge on all those people alongside Ellie.,Part II's theme of revenge seems clear enough journeying as Ellie. However, when you switch to Abby, you quickly realize she has more cause for concern. This expansive section of the game allows the player to sit with their emotions and maybe think twice if Ellie's actions. I couldn't help but feel sorry for her as she converses with her friends without knowing it would be their last time. Abby's story had a strong arc and was the backbone to lift the story. She grew from a hardened killer to a woman offering forgiveness, similar to Joel.,Ellie’s revenge quest comes to an end as she realizes Abby isn’t the answer. The only way to move on and forgive Joel is by forgiving herself. The beauty of this game is that one storyline can be perceived in a hundred different ways. Naughty Dog understands this game will divide their fan base. Rather than falling back on a easy-to-please storyline, they narrated a very specific story in a bold and fresh way.
4638) MASTERPIECE  GOTY sony always we the best games on consoles eniugh said Naughty Dog killing the gaming competition
4639) Brilliant, brave game, that dares to take us on a complicated, nuanced journey, letting us take on perspectives of people who are extreme adversaries. It’s a game about hate, and also about empathy. In the end, I still sided with Ellie though.
4640) This game flew well over most peoples heads. They entirely missed the point and were not able actually use their brain and empathize. It may not have been the story you wanted told, but it was brilliantly told. Absolutely incredible experience, extremely bold narrative structure, and it pays off in grand fashion. If youve finished the game and you find yourself still hating the other protagonist, youve failed. Not Naughty Dog. And for those who are unconvinced, i encourage you to check out girlfriend reviews video "Understand The last of us part 2" for a nuanced and articulate explanation of the game. Just because you didnt get it, doesnt make it bad. Bravo naughty dog, bravo.
4641) Game of the year! Thought provoking storytelling intertwined with compelling gameplay.
4642) Great game, great graphics with a great story. Last of Us part 2 is breathtaking when it comes to it’s visuals and the atmosphere! Haters gonna Hate
4643) I thought it will disappoint me, but at the end it was nearly perfect.,,the graphics and game play are stunning, and the story, although it won't be what you expected, at the end is magnificent
4644) I expected no less from Naughty Dog than a breathtaking experience, but i thought it would be a "happy one", and they went above and beyond, subverting all my expectations. The game is brutal, cruel, sad, it makes your heart shatter and that was AMAZING. This is one of the best games ever made. In addition to technical excellence, which requires no comments(best graphics and animations ever???), the game provides an emotional experience never seen before in a video game. TLoU2 is a masterpiece.
4645) Don't know how to start to be true...,Credits are just playing right now, I'm sitting here in tears.,Well, yes, Gameplay's much same same but different but also: Never change a running system, right?,Story, what should I say, first is that I liked it a lot even if it's over large parts very quiet and just go straight up in the moments we're it have to do it and then it do it extraordinary good.,And if we are honest, Part One wasn't different in that.,I am an empathic as hell and I felt and understand every move that was taken by the Charakters, even if I don't like every move that was made, but If I were them, who can tell if I don't do the same things. I am crying because I am as torn apart, sad, weak, exhausted after seeing all of this as the Charakters are after all they've gone through and how couldn't this be a masterpiece of a game if a game make all of this with you.,Ellie's Sexuality was clear since the DLC, and I'm fine with that, God everyone who isn't is just a.... Well, welcome to the 21st Century U......,So much to this from me.,The brutality and gore, yes I think this game needs exactly to be this hard to transport the emotions, the feelings and the roughness that world brings with it. The fighting scenes and some gore effects are tough to watch but not one Charakter have done a thing I wouldn't do in a fight of live and death and I wasn't enjoying these scenes I was FEELING them.,The graphics are superb, I have NEVER seen anything like this in a Videogame before and I can't wait for all what's to come in the Videogame Scene. So at the end now, there's just one last thing to say.,Thank you, Naughty Dog, thank you for this Journey you took me again and I can't wait to see Part 3; and u know that u have to do it.
4646) Amazing game! Don't believe the haters that didn't even play. No Naughty Dog game gets a 0/10 lmao
4647) Is this game Controversial?  Yes.  Is this game going to make you feel very Uncomfortable at times?  Also, yes.  Is this game Good?  In my opinion, Heck Yes!  And here is why...,,This highly-anticipated game carried with it tremendous pressure to deliver something that fans would love and which honored its predecessor - an almost unanimously loved game with equally loved anti-heroes in Joel and Ellie.  I'm truly sad to hear if you feel let down by this game because I can imagine how disappointing that would feel for me.  However, I loved this game, and I honestly cannot fathom anyone giving this game lower than a 7/10 - even if they hated the plot (a sentiment that many have been vocal about).  Let's talk about why I feel this way:,,Graphics - 10/10  The game is visually stunning.  There are many times I paused my gameplay just to be still and admire the detail in the scenery.  In classic Naughty Dog fashion, attention to details such as 1. Footprints in snow/dust/blood.  2. Dripping of water from clothing.  3. Facial expressions of the playable character changing based on environment/action.  4. Unique interactions with the environment such as looking over your shoulder when walking up stairs backward.,,Gameplay - 9/10  I found the gameplay significantly more enjoyable even than TLOU Part 1.  The addition of squeezing through cracks in the wall made evading or sneaking up on enemies more fluid.  Dogs who can smell your scent trail made attempted stealth turn into sudden shootouts and chases.  And the Stalkers!  OMG these things really tighten up the ol' sphincter when they jump out at you!  I can't give this a 10 because I found some of the "looting" a bit annoying after a while because it distracts from the story.  There is a setting to automatically pick up loot, and turning this on has made things much more enjoyable.,,Story - 9/10  Writing - 10/10  Okay - Story vs Writing.  If I explained to you the plot of Star Wars: A New Hope, that is the story.  Now I ask you to write the script for this plot - that is the writing.  I totally understand why people would have an issue with the Story.  I love Joel and Ellie, and it was painful to see Joel die that way... and WAY more painful to see Ellie make the choices she does as well.  And the game took a big risk by having us play as Abby and relive Seattle from her perspective.  This isn't the story I wanted or asked for - but I genuinely appreciated traveling down this road and will not soon forget the experience.  The characters are complex and their story arcs are satisfying and real.  The writing is being bombed in reviews and I don't understand that.  Think about all the conversations and dialogue these characters have.  Each interaction develops character relationships and gives insight into the character dynamics - all while feeling like natural conversations.  Compare this to other games where dialogue is repeated in an unnatural way by NPCs.  TLOU truly feels more grounded.  Joel and Ellie's trip to the Dinosaur/Space museum is the new "giraffe moment" from part 1 - and it makes us feel ALL the feels.  It is a testament to the writing that spending time with Manny and Abby actually changed my mind about how strongly I disliked them both in the beginning.  And I love that the game handled the consequences of Joel's actions head-on in this game.  Joel lied to Ellie, and Ellie sensed this.  As sad as I am to see Joel die, it made his truthful moments with Ellie as he came clean even more powerful.,,Voice Acting - 10/10  This game has a star-studded cast.  Heavyweights like Troy Baker, Ashley Johnson, and Laura Baily deliver flawless performances - in addition to smaller roles like Isaac (voiced by Jeffrey Wright) leaving such an impression when he is only in 2 scenes!  Compare this to other AAA video games and nothing holds a candle to the performances here.  Each of the actors did an amazing job.,,In conclusion - I would recommend that you play this game in its entirety.  I loved it.  It tells a unique story of love, loss, and consequences.  Love or hate the story, the team at Naughty Dog deserves respect for another groundbreaking game.
4648) The Last of Us 2 is a masterpiece with a brilliantly thought-out script. From the beginning to the end, Naughty Dog takes us into a story that is poignant, violent, but in the end, deeply human. Few games are able to make us live such a jumble of emotions... To embody, not just one character but two, including Abby, is without a doubt a bold idea, but it's a successful gamble that works perfectly. Environment, AI (some games should learn a thing or two from this), storytelling, characters writing... Well done Naughty Dog !
4649) Played the game Twice now, and my personal experience has been great. I would highly recommend this game to any fan of the first game, with an open mind and unbiased opinion.  This game challenges you mentally, and it’s not a story for people who are easily confused, or are not open to new experiences. Naughty dog, has yet again created another masterpiece.
4650) Best game i ever played in my life. Touched me like any game did. Thanks Naughty Dog ❤️
4651) For me is tlou2 one of the best games ever. The atmosphere, the worldbuilding, the graphic and specifically the Facial expressions and gesturing are state of the art. It's a playable movie without player decisions and that is perfect, it brings the story closer to you. If you don't like the story you can stop playing like a series or movie. It's a shocking and very emotional story. Not for everyone, but that wasn't game of thrones or the walking dead, too.
4652) It's great game to see different aspects of stories. Good story with perfect performance
4653) Well, here it goes.  Giving this game a 10 to offset the butt hurt fanboys.  Game is closer to a 9.  I personally like the story a lot.  This game took risks and it is better for it.  If you all want the same game from sequel to sequel, play Call of Duty.  If you want art, play The Last of Us II.
4654) I loved this game.  i waited patiently for this game because the first one was one of my favorite games of the last decade.  I wasn't let down in the least. It is the perfect end to Joel and Ellie's stories.  If you haven't played yet, ignore all spoilers and just take the game in.,It's also the most amazing looking and sounding game ever created.  It looks better than many of the previews for ps5 games we have seen and it's running on 7 year old hardware.   The game play is improved since the first.  The ability to jump and go prone adds to maneuvering the larger environments.   10/10 Would play again. (Actually playing again right now on survivor mode)
4655) I gave this a 10 because of the unique and different way that NaughtyDog approached this game. Its definitely not what I expected or what I wanted to happen but its something I deeply respect. Biggest issue was deadnaming of Lev. It made sense but still.
4656) It's a beautifully crafted game with a carefully developed story line. I get that some people would have wanted to see things play out differently, but Naughty Dog is in control here, not us the players. We are taken on a journey to see how THEIR story plays out. You don't have to like the choices made, but the story is incredibly deep and captivating. I fully admit that I did not want to play as Abby at all. About halfway through her portion of the game, I came to realize that I no longer hated her, even if her actions were deplorable. Just a bunch of regular people in a **** up world with at times broken moral compasses.
4657) Truly an emotional roller coaster. The absolutely best game I've played in a long time.
4658) In any way, this is a very powerful and brave masterpiece. Every small detail to make whole world and emotional storylines.
4659) I’ve just completed the game.. and I’m still amazed for this journey, thanks naughty dog.
4660) I really appreciate this game. If you're reading this and are indecisive, I can only tell you to go for it and not let anyone tell you how to feel.
4661) I finished a few days ago and can't stop thinking about it. This game **** with your mind but in a good way. Worthy sequel.
4662) With beautiful graphics, an engaging story, and fine tuned gameplay mechanics, this game was everything I hoped for. Play it yourself before judging it.
4663) Brilliant yet harrowing, it stands above the original in it's much deeper gameplay. It broke my heart with it's story but I couldn't stop playing. I've played through it twice and have enjoyed every second. I just have to wonder if there will be a part 3...
4664) What a bunch of crybabies. Review-bombing the game because a thing you didn't want happening happened. Just write your own fanfiction where Joel, Ellie, and co. kill all the characters you don't like and skip off happily into the sunset.,,There are valid criticisms of the game but 99% of haters just say stupid **** like it spits on part 1, reference plot holes without saying what the plot holes are, or just hate it because of its diversity.
4665) Personally it’s an amazing game...I think most people that hate on it would only be happy if it told the story that they specifically wanted.  It takes them out of there comfort zone and they aren’t happy about it.  Forced to face the reality that the end of the first game had very real consequences for other innocent people and loved ones, they’d rather ignore the fact that Joel’s choice was a rather selfish one that meets its reckoning on the end of another selfish choice.  What happens in this game is no less justified than the choice Joel made at the end of the first, chew on that for a bit.  If your looking for a feel good story, then it’s not for you.  But if your looking for a story that looks deeper into the shades of gray that make up the human psyche, you won’t be disappointed.
4666) This game has a really deep and well-written story, while I think that it could be shorter in some parts, I don't think it is a big problem.,The gameplay is fluid, and the game mechanics are great.,The graphics are amazing, and the facial animations are really impressive,My advice to anyone buying this game is to play with an open mind and make your own opinion.
4667) I really respect what they did with the story. It wasn't perfectly paced and I understand why some people didn't like it. But I personally enjoyed how it wasn't just some fanservice. It was different. It was brave. And extremely devastating. I felt like I was personally going through all stages of grief.,I honestly haven't seen anything like it before.,The acting, environment and sound design are phenomenal. The new characters are well written.,This game can make you angry and question its storytelling decisions but if you trust it and wait, you might see its brilliance.,I strongly recommend this masterpiece.
4668) I didn't enjoy this game. It made me feel angry, disappointed, distraught, and physically sick at various points throughout. It only got worse later in the game, until it finally finished, and I haven't stopped thinking about it for the last two days.,,No piece of media has ever made me feel the things I felt with this game. The storytelling, visual fidelity, character animation, sound design, and narrative sucked me in and didn't let me go until it was finished with me. As a game, it's incredible. As a work of art, it's a masterpiece.,,I'm sure I will come back to the game, but I need some time to recover first. I understand why people don't like it. No doubt, if Naughty Dog had made the game these fans wanted, I would have enjoyed it too. But they didn't. What they did create is something truly special, and it's not something I'm likely to ever forget.
4669) Amazing all around game from story to graphics.  The best game i have ever played.  Anyone who is complaining about this game is either a bigot or doesn't understand the story at all.  No arguments I have heard so far hold any water.
4670) Phenomenal game with an AMAZING story. Definitely play the game before making up your mind based on 2 hours worth of spoilers in a 24 to 30+ hour long game.
4671) The best game of the world. The best. Thanks Naughty dogs for this great experience.
4672) I’m gonna be honest, no game has ever **** with my emotions to this extent. This game made me feel so many different things from the start to the end; Happiness in Jackson,Sadness at Joel’s death,Anger during Ellie’s quest for revenge,Frustration when initially we switched to Abby,Confusion as we played through Abby’s story,Sheer horror in the hospital as Abby,Incompletion when Ellie lost to Abby,Completion at the farm with Dina, Ellie and JJ,Shock at Abby’s capture,And finally,A total sense of peace at the ending.,I can’t see how people are hating on the story, it is so beautifully written.,The way they made me go from despising Abby to actually loving her as a character is INSANE, and I doubt any other game could ever do that for me.,I couldn’t understand what I was feeling myself, until I progressed to day 2 and 3 for Abby,And as it unravelled I was more and more amazed as to how attached I was getting to her,Of course, I don’t think we need to talk about the sound design, graphics, animations, gameplay, and all the other content not directly related to the story, because that has never been done better on any PS4 title I’ve ever played. This game was purely phenomenal. And Naughty Dog has knocked it out of the park. Definitely will replay. Thank you, Neil Druckmann, and the whole team.,Also, the voice acting, even in the first game, man it is done too well for a video game. Every single character feels so real, and of course, Ashley Johnson and Troy Baker are absolute LEGENDS. They really made this game stand out. I have so much love for this game and everyone involved in the process of its creation.
4673) You're allowed to be uncomfortable with this story, that goes without saying, but don't bother listening to any surface level critiques like "horrible writing" or "unbelievable decisions". To all the folks holding off on this game on account of any clickbate dogpile videos, Let me assure you that the story, while not catering to your desires, is incredibly well written. Motivations might seem unrealistic to you, but they wouldn't to a survivor living in a comparable set of horrific circumstances. "That's not what i'd do" is a pretty BS response being slung from our cheeto dust covered couches. The story beats justify themselves throughout the game and are not "JRPG level" complicated to wrap your head around. It's a narrative that pushes the player in directions video games are often reluctant to go but "bad writing" is a pretty flawed accusation paint it with. MC should dump any user scores posted within 10 hours of this games release if it gives any value at all to the player score.
4674) The Last of Us part 2 is a well written story about how things are never as black and white as they seem. its game play is even better than the first one adding the perfect mix of fast paced adrenaline and suspenseful horror.
4675) What a masterpiece. I mean I really liked the first last of us, this one was a risky move but I have to say the story was really hard to swallow because made us think perspectives. I watched until the end of the credits because I could not move my eyes from the screen. Really good job naughtydog.
4676) best game I've ever played. Everything is just perfect, made me cry 3 times. I was afraid that the game could be bad but when I first started it, I realized that I was wrong. Beautiful game, really.
4677) I never expected storytelling to be so good in a game even after they killed off one of the most loved characters in such a brutal fashion and made you play as the killer only for the player to empathise and like the killer. Naughty dog has done such an amazing feat utilising every inch of power in the playstation to make a perfect ending to this console cycle. story aside, you can tell Naughty Dog poured their heart into every aspect of this game. The animations and attention to detail are on another level down from the individual actions when upgrading guns down to the blood realistically pouring from a wound after an intensely grim fight - the gore and violence are on a level of their own. Combat arguably outshines the narrative as the AI and additional features make such a brilliant difference that no fight is ever the same. The atmosphere is expertly done due to the soundtrack reflecting each scene perfectly as well as the voice acting from each character, Naughty Dog did intend to make the violence more real and make the player think about their actions and I believe they have done so very well, not only from story moments but, even just stealth killing supposed "bullet fodders" you can see the desperation both in Ellie and the enemies in their expressions again, it's these little details that flesh out every enemy that add to the game so well.,Back to the story, so while I was intitially seething that they killed off Joel so quickly and the fact that we play as Abby through the second half of the game, I grew from absolutely hating her and her crew to growing fond of them and actually liking her. Lev and Yara i guess, added a little to the story but, in my opinion it felt like a rehash of Joel and Ellie but even so, Naughty Dog conveyed their relationship quite well in a way that didn't rip off from J&E. I love the way the story tied up in the end and going back to my point where I reversed my opinion on Abby; it was to the point where I believed Ellie was the villain and that is why this game gets a 10 from me. Not only from the amazing graphic, animation, sound, gore etc but the fact that Naughty Dog reversed my opinion on a character that did the most heinous thing that could be done to a fan of the series through their storytelling. It's a game that has to be played and not judged solely on leaks and what others have said.,,Although, if I'm being finicky and to make sure others do not see this as biased, the stuff that I didn't like or wasn't a fan of was the framerate drops which occurred a couple of times thankfully it did not take away from the experience, pacing was a bit over the place.
4678) One of the best games I've ever played! The duality on the characters, the two sides of the story, playing with both Ellie and Abby makes us understand both sides and how every vilan thinks he's the hero of its own story made this game fantastic!
4679) One of the most brilliant stories ever told in the entertainment community. A **** masterpiece, I don’t understand how naughty dog had such an incredible team that was able to create something so powerful and unique.
4680) Very emocional experience. Fantastic journey. The last 7 hours Of The game are a masterpiece. Play until The end and be rewarded by it ALL.
4681) I just finished the game and all I could say that this is a masterpiece. I was shocked by some of their narrative choices at first. That said, I think the story is a masterpiece of pacing and emotional impact. Anyone who is affected by the narrative choices that Naughty Dog made to the extent of labeling this game as "bad" is either immature or didn't play the game to the end. This is certainly the best video game I ever played and I have been gaming for at least 27 years (since I was 10). If you haven 't played this game, do yourself a favor, ignore those cry babies and pick up a copy, you won't regret it. The graphics, gameplay, and story are all above anything else in the whole industry. Don't miss out on such a masterpiece because of some idiots who are too immature to sit their asses down and hear a story until the end.
4682) This game shattered my heart into a million pieces, time and time again. But it is still an absolute masterpiece.
4683) It is not a game for fanservice.  Excellent opening of the narrative arc including new characters and escaping the vision of the good guys (protagonists of the first game) against the new bad guys.  It is an apocalyptic world where everything is more complex than simply seeing the character you want succeed.  Grow up!
4684) The best game I’ve ever played, it is very decided because of how people deal with grieve, vengeance and forgiveness. Must play and take own conclusions. It’s cruel as real life, sometimes things don’t go how you intent to, and action has consequences.
4685) Perfect in every way! Beautiful history, truly a life changing experience...
4686) Just watch understanding the last of us part II by Girlfriend reviews. It just says any points I would’ve made but better
4687) Great looking game and god game mechanic. Very bold story line, which takes som getting adapted to, because you are so focused on the dynamic of Joel and Ellie. And it is at punch in the face when you see joel getting killed of so early, but all the feelings tou get from it, is intentional, and it surdenly divided a lot of People. but all in all i think That it is a very good game and a very bold story, and I see what they are trying to do and I understand why it is not for everyone.
4688) I understand the jarring effect of switching characters at what seems like the crescendo of an agonizing tale of revenge turned to sorrow and suddenly we change gears... I get it. That being said, no game has touched my soul like this one. Once the hard pill of sorts is swollowed, the insane gut wrenching beauty of this game really begins to unfold. I laughed, I cried, I’ve been challenged and I’m going back for more. I will never forget this game. The many intricacies have been playing through my mind over and over ever since I beat it a week ago and I’m still mulling it all over.  I recommend this work of art so highly and I think the perspectives it brings are imperativly relevant for society today. The sounds, graphics, combat and many mechanics can’t be praised enough. Go play this game!
4689) This is the best video game story I've ever seen. It depicts the complexity of human emotions and the complexity of human behaviors. It does not have just one-dimensional characters like many other games.
4690) Making a sequel to a beloved game is always a difficult task. In most cases, sequels are bad and never reach the technical quality of the first game. The Last of Us Part II is a rare exception to that rule.,,GAMEPLAY,,The gameplay is similar to the first game, but it contains reinventions and a few changes. Such as: The dodge and the jump. The weapon upgrade system is much more satisfying than it's predecessor. With a wide arrange of weapons, upgrading each and every single one of them, change not only the aesthetic but the way you play it. The jump button is very important to the level design of the game, since now, you have a traversal option to approach the enemies. I found the dodge thoroughly entertaining, it adds to the frenetic and fast paced combat of the game.,,PACE,,The pacing of the game is adequate. It fits into the story, and it shows how Naughty Dog has grown in this particular aspect. Since previous games of the company had some pacing issues such as Uncharted 4 and The Last of Us. I'm really happy to see that Naughty Dog made her homework.,,ENVIRONMENT,,Naughty Dog's level design was always very inspired. In this game, it reaches a whole other level. Non linear sequences add to the feel of the post apocalyptic world of the game and also reward the ones who explore. With collectibles and unique sequences that add to the overall meaning of the story. Seattle, the city where you play most of the game only proves that Naughty Dog is amazing in it's art direction.,,STORY,,The story of The Last of Us Part II is Amazing. It follows Ellie in a quest for revenge and Abby  (the new character) in a quest for redemption. The narrative talks about a lot of different themes. Such as: Empathy, Hate, Love, Legacy, Redemption, Sacrifice... the list goes on.  Nothing in this game happens for free. Everything has a meaning or meanings. It's really about deconstructing the characters we know.,,PERFORMANCES,,Ashley Johnson kills as Ellie, giving a career defining performance that is sure to change acting in videogame forever. Laura Bailey is the star of the game, she carries Abby's character arc forward and made me love the character even more than I thought I would. Troy Baker destroys as the intimidating but charming Joel.,,The Last of Us Part II is a sequel made in spectacular fashion that not only respects the story of the first game while also adds to it.,,PS: I experienced some bugs while playing the game. But nothing that destroyed the experience.
4691) Without a doubt a masterpiece of a game, great story telling, fun gameplay and stunning visuals.,Well done Naughty Dog
4692) Reading through all these hate comments, the game just makes more and more sense, and becomes more and more real. So many people blinded by hate and on refusal to understand that actions have consequences and that stories always have to sides. This game left me thinking about it for days after I beat it, and I'm still thinking about it a week later. It is safe to say that it is a story that really hits hard, and will, if you allow yourself to see through other points of view, thinking about a lot too. Gradually seeing the player ratings come up, just shows that the people who actually played the game are begging to show up and understand it for what it is. To be this divisive and to create this raw emotion into people is enough evidence that this game is packed with emotion and powerful narrative And storytelling.,I can only congratulate naughty dog, Troy, Ashley, Laura and Neil for this. It truly is a masterpiece.
4693) 10/10 gameplay,10/10 atmosphere,7/10 story,,I put 10 because the game is worth 8 "user score"
4694) This game has been part of an obvious hate storm. People have read the leaks and think they have some sense of what the game has to offer, or have some agenda that they want to take out on this game. This game is not a 10/10, i choose to give it this score to balance it out from all the zeroes. I would probably give it a 8.5 or 9. The gameplay is truly a work of art, turning it up to an 11. The story has problems... it is however clearly above 99% of all other games, even if it is (imo) worse than the first game. Some **** seem to have problem with the lgbtq characters, we have known that Ellie  wasn't straight since  Left Behind, wtf are you on about? They absolutely don't shove it in your face or whatever. This game may have problems but it is still great and absolutely is worth picking up. Don't listen to the sheeps.
4695) One of best games I have ever played. No game has ever ellicit so much from me ever.,The story in this game is unparalleled to anything that I have ever played or watched. It makes you question your own feelings and challenge you to see things from a different perspective. I have felt happiness, sorrow, fear, anger and regret over the 30 hours of story in this game. I want to play it again so that I learn more and watch out for things that I may have missed.,I would highly recommend this game to everyone.,The gameplay is fantastic - including stealth and combat.the ability to craft newer weapons and advanced skill tree outs it over the first game in terms of combat.
4696) What an emotional roller coaster. One of the best pieces of media I have ever experienced
4697) This Game is the best game in my life , I loved first one but I lived TLoU Part II , don't listen to me or anybody else , don't say it's bad cause it has a 5.0 user score or it's good cause it's critic score is 94 , play the game ! no one can be in your shoes ! Go feel the game your self ! but from my aspect of view this game was a masterpiece !
4698) The story, graphics, sound design , the characters everything good, I loved every single detail about the game
4699) Incredible. From start to finish. I think every one will take something away from it in their own way.
4700) The game gets you mad. And it´s on purpose. It was a rush of fellings that the story passes for you that is really impressive. If you play this game openminded, you´ll finish it and start to think about the fellings you had and about the traumas the game causes in players. A lot of players hated it´s story, but I bet time will pass and everybody will claim for a new game and the rest of this story. It has the best storytelling I ever seen in a game (or movie) and they imput LGBT+ characters in a way that doesn´t fell forced to. This game isn´t about to shot monsters and enemies, and never was. It´s about survival. I NEVER PLAYED ANYTHING IN MY LIFE like this. Thank you, Naughty Dog
4701) An incredible game. A rollercoaster of emotions and a game that will have you reflecting on what transpired for days. It's uncomfortable at times but also beautiful and funny. I loved the pacing of the game.,Don't listen to the hate, play it with an open mind and enjoy the journey.
4702) Amazing follow up.  Really ties in the story and makes you think.  Really left me conflicted at the end.  Awesome experience, like a movie with great gameplay.
4703) An absolute masterpiece of storytelling and an emotional gut punch. This game makes you question your own values in such a clever way that you will never have felt so connected with a character, for better and for worse. If you’re not willing to do that, you may dislike the story, but that’s on you. If you go into this game with an open mind and grasp the point it is trying to make, it will blow your mind.
4704) I played this game. I love this game .
4705) Don’t listen to the hive mind. Very good game with a gripping theme. The story structure can be offputting but the story is far more solid than anyone on this page gives it credit for.
4706) The game is awesome the Grafik the phisycs I love this game I have the game ad 100% MUST PLAY GAME OF THE YEAR❤️❤️
4707) Well other than Joel dying and playing Abby for half of the game and then Ellie releasing her free it's ok
4708) Quite possibly the best game I’ve ever played (possibly a little recency bias nudging it ahead of Nier Automata).,I loved the first game and Naughty Dog has taken what was great about it and improved in almost every way. The gameplay is similar to part one, but has been tweaked to perfection; the additions to combat are small but open up many new ways to approach encounters.,The game looks/sounds gorgeous, which is to be expected, it’s predecessor looked amazing for a PS3 game as well. The voice/mo-cap performances from the entire cast are phenomenal. The soundtrack/general sound design are incredible, there’s a weight felt with every shot fired/hit connected, and the non-human enemies sound straight up terrifying. The score (primarily) by Gustavo Santaolalla is one of the best around (again, Nier Automata) and every note fits the scene perfectly.,Last thing I’ll mention is the story. It certainly wasn’t what I thought I wanted when the game was announced years ago, but I loved every moment, even those that made me feel hate or sadness. It follows on from the story of part one masterfully and adds real weight and consequence to the previous story, particularly its ending which was highly controversial back in 2013 (though the consensus now seems positive).,In short, it’s a game people should play. As is Nier Automata. One of them is the best game I’ve ever played, I’m just not quite sure which one right now.
4709) The most immersive games I have ever played. The story and gameplay are innovative and superb. Thank NaughtyDog for this experience.
4710) One of the most breath-taking games of all times, allowing to experience the widest spectrum of emotions, with brilliantly made stealth, combat and animation systems. GOTY
4711) This is high-art. No surprise bunch of action cliché lovers, right-wing fascists and some console war fools tried to bring it down but nope you just drowned yourself in your hate. I can't wait to see all types of haters faces when this got GOTY. Also to the hate train passengers, make your own opinion about any medium by yourself. Use your brain and don't be a toy of some low life youtuber's propoganda.
4712) I love the plot, it's a perfect close of the original game. Abby is my favorite character and her friends, but also Jesse, Tommy :(. Ellie is not my favorite now. I'm thinking about the game all the days and talk about it a lot whit my friends. Great job ND
4713) This has got to be on of the best games on the PS4. The graphics, gameplay and story beats are on point. It pulls on my heart strings throughout and is incredibly powerful and innovative. It breaks my heart that people wrote negative reviews without even picking up the game or even finishing it. It is also troubling that people went into this game hating it because of the leaks before it even came out. Play it with an open mind.
4714) I just ended the game, i was furious about what happened at first. By the end i felt really sorry for Abby. And thinking about what Ellie has felt without knowing the background of Abby it is understandable why she went after Abby, and then why she let her go. All in all, this was an exceptional and great game.
4715) The Last of Us Part II is best game I've ever played. Horizon: Zero Dawn is now a close second! I enjoyed every second of this emotion packed rollercoaster! The characters are so well written, I fell in love with them all.
4716) Brilliant! The gameplay is smooth, the range of weapons is fun, more enemy variety than part 1. The characters are so well developed, and the story is absolutely perfect. Just wow.
4717) I hated to play this game sometimes, and thats why i totally love it, i don't know if its right, good or bad, but immersive as hell, and the roller coaster of emotion it gave me is the clear example of how we all experience things so different, for me it's more than just a story, the way it made me confront myself was a smart and brave decision on ND part. Thank you for that.
4718) Brilliant game.  Technical masterwork.  Such an amazing level of attention that deserves to be getting more credit.
4719) The game is amazing. Really loved the graphics, the technical aspects and, yes, the storyline. It's inovative show two perspectives in a game the way Naughty Dog did in The Last of Us Part II. I fully understand those who might haven't liked the plot that much, but if you're bombing the game because of Joel's death, because of sexual themes or other silly reasons, you are just an imature person. This game is a masterpiece.
4720) A uncomfortable, brutal, conflicting tradgic story. Incredible, intense gameplay with super graphics and sound.,Love it or hate it this game has done something no game has ever done before on every level, anticipation, Preorders, controversy, backlash all of it!,Play this yourself, make up your own mind, in my eyes this really is art.
4721) Been spoiled by the leaks almost completely and it didn't manage to ruin this incredible experience. Must have
4722) Masterpiece!!!! absolutely must play, worth every penny, start the game with open mind and you will not regret this.
4723) Please don’t believe all the negative reviews from (I have no idea why) “disappointed” players. This game is the best thing I have EVER played since Part One. This game alone is reason enough to own a Playstation! Pure perfection.
4724) This game is a monument to the art of video games.  its world is beautiful and horrifying.   Its gameplay is immersive and intense.  But most of all, its story is in a masterclass of its own in the medium.  Complicated, nuanced, and challenging the player like very few in entertainment try to do, it sticks the landing and delivers a powerful message about vengeance, hatred, grief, and forgiveness.
4725) Masterpiece, This game is amazing, I felt a lot of emotions, very cool story and gameplay. The game is long, worth the money, and makes you think
4726) This game is a Masterpiece! It has the best graphics in video game history and the gameplay is so good! The Story makes you feel every emotion. Good Job Naughty Dog you made another masterpiece!
4727) I consider Last of Us Part II to be a worthy sequel to the memorable and immersive original.  Somehow, Naughty Dog managed to strike a darker tone than its predecessor, and after the eight days it took me to complete the story on medium difficulty, I was emotionally exhausted.  Yet the characters and their plights haunted me well after the credits rolled.  Sure some of the themes were heavy-handed, the pacing suspect at times, and the character motivations questionable.  The story was a bit manipulative, but I have to give Naughty Dog credit for successfully manipulating me.  I went from rooting for Ellie in the beginning to changing my allegiance and backing her principal adversary.  I enjoyed the improved combat sequences.  Encounters in the original game were a bit monotonous, alternating between clusters of infected and bands of faceless human baddies.  The "Left Behind" DLC gave us a tantalizing introduction to encounters with multiple factions, and the sequel provides an even wider variety of conflict dynamics.  The sequel expands upon all the things I enjoyed most from the original: the detailed settings, evoking poignant reminders to a dead civilization, frenetic combat, and moral relativism.,,All the main characters are weary and jaded, having long since become numb to the horrors of a lawless "zombie" dystopia.  I particularly enjoyed one optional throwaway dialogue that is triggered when Ellie and a companion discover the ruins of a store specializing in Halloween items, a callback to a similar scene in a mall featured in the "Left Behind" DLC.  No longer the irreverent goofball who puts on masks and relishes puns, Ellie shoots down her companion's attempt to engage her in a conversation about their festive surroundings with a cold remark about not being into such frivolous things.,,I've read many of the critiques of the story, but I do not share them--at least to the extent that others do.  Joel and Ellie were no angels in the first "Last of Us", and I almost thought they were let off easy in the original's conclusion.  Joel, in particular, had many sins to atone for, and the original dropped plenty of clues.  There was Tess' line about them being **** people."  There was Joel being too familiar with the brutal tactics of the Pittsburgh killers, and hinting that he had engaged in similar practices prior to the events in Boston.  And, of course, there was the gratuitous violence he inflicted upon the surgeons at the hospital.  I would have been surprised if the sequel did not introduce a new character with sympathetic motives seeking retribution.  It quote Clint Eastwood's character in "Unforgiven," "we all have it coming.",,I have already started a new game, with the intent on acquiring all the items and upgrades I missed in the original.  I doubt the sequel will have the same replay value as the original and the DLC, not because of diminished gameplay or storytelling, but because of the tragic end that befall so many of the characters and the relentless misery.  Yet, at its core, it's still a video game, and a beautiful and engaging one at that.  This is still a world in which a bullet wound can be cured in seconds with a bit of gauze and tape, and taking enough of those expired pills in your medicine cabinet will teach you how to make more efficient pipe bombs.  So let's keep things in perspective here!
4728) I like dark and depressing media in general so I may be a little biased...,People always complain that this is a bad revenge plot. But its actually a story of forgiveness.,If people realize it, they'll at least start understanding the true beauty of this game.,,P.S: People complain that Ellie kills a lot of people so forgiveness doesnt make sense.,IF we are talking gameplay, lot of those encounters can be avoided with stealth. This makes the motivation of her killing to be "Killing to SURVIVE". Yes I know she does a lot of dark **** But thats why she realises in the end right?
4729) [SPOILER HEAVY REVIEW/REACTION],While I agree that the first game is a masterpiece, Part 2 is even more so for me on so many levels... This game indeed has a very controversial story, but it makes perfect sense to me and I understand the decisions that the characters have made. Also, the parallel storytelling is absolutely genius, and it plays with my emotions so much. Then there's environment and gameplay, which are definitely elevated from the first game and then some.,,Now let's get onto the real SPOILER heavy portion of this review...,,===Story===,Naughty Dog wanted to make a game with a theme of vengeance, and they did just that. The whole game is surrounded by vengeance, and what people are willing to do to fulfill that. In my opinion, the story and character reactions were complicated but never out of place, even though sometimes they can be very overwhelming. I won’t dive too deep into the plot, but I do want to address two main arguments that fans are having.,,First of all, I would like to say that killing off a beloved character simply does not mean a story is bad. I understand people's feeling are hurt, since someone you love so much from the first game got brutally killed. But let’s be honest, Joel is not a hero. While this doesn’t mean he should die (especially in such way), you cannot say his death is not justified, especially that he killed someone's father, and essentially ruined the chance of a cure for the human race.,,Now let's move on to the main playable characters. Ellie was set on a quest to seek revenge because her father(-figure) was murdered, and she went on every length to accomplish that, which is what most of the players want to do after witnessing Joel's death. But when it comes to Abby, whose father was killed by Joel, also set on a quest to seek revenge, I noticed many people are suddenly not okay with that. Honestly, I think Abby's action is just as justified as Ellie's, the difference is that Joel's death is personal to the players, but Jerry (Abby's father)'s is not.,,===Storytelling===,Storytelling might be my favorite part of the game because it gives the players different perspectives. When I played as Ellie and Abby, I get to see their personal life, and experience their thoughts and memories separately. At a certain part of the game, I have to go to the same area twice, but as different characters. When I first played as Ellie, I didn't think much and just by default eliminated everyone in that area; but later, as I play as Abby (timeline wise Abby gets there earlier than Ellie so everyone's still alive), I get to talk to them and interact with them. While this doesn't make me feel entirely "guilty" that Ellie has killed them all (since they are obstacles to her goal), it added a personal touch to that story and gameplay, knowing these are Abby’s friends (and fur-friends) and they are just doing their job.,,The parallel storytelling in this game makes me think a lot more than other games. It turned an otherwise linear revenge story into something much deeper and much more human. I equally love Ellie and Abby at the end of the game because I see them both as human, instead of two game characters who are blessed by the creators, I feel their loss and pain, and I understand why they made all the decisions.,,===Environment and Gameplay===,I will not spend too much time on this other than saying the game is gorgeous but brutal, and the combat is super fun yet can be extremely challenging (especially a certain new clicker).,,Frankly, I don't write reviews much, but with the tremendous hate that this game has gotten, I feel a need to express my opinions (hence certain parts of this review are more of my reaction). Of course, Naughty Dog can just make another game of a cross-country tour featuring Ellie and Joel that's filled with love, and people would be happy. But I admire what Naughty Dog has crafted. It's a very dark, intense, complicated, and controversial story; but through the gameplay, I feel a much stronger emotion towards the story and much deeper connection to the characters than I excepted.,,This is a game that I would highly recommend anyone to EXPERIENCE firsthand, rather than just be an observer or just storm through the plot. There will be times that you feel happy and loved through the characters’ eyes, but also moments to drown in shock, hatred, and revenge. Afterall, they are human in a post-apocalyptic world, and they are all just trying to survive.
4730) I understand many people hate this game, but i enjoyed it .. i love emotional roller coasters in video games and this was the first time i had to play as a character i didn't like and did not want to play as but that’s the challenge. I personally loved learning to understand this character and in the end i could understand why she did it, they reversed the roles helping you understand there are consequences to your choices. How many games do we play as a protagonist who just makes it unscathed for 3,4 games, this makes the last of us world that much more real and thats why i personally loved it.
4731) excellent game with improvements in its gameplay a little weak history but I think it will be the game of the year.
4732) Don't to with the haters. Haven't seen a single news about this game and tried to finish berore Reading anything because of Spoilers. And thank God I made cause I could enjoy this Truly work of ART in every possible Second. Any scene in this game is put on purpous tô teach you something, show you something or make you question yourself. Thank You Naughty Dog.
4733) This game is brilliant. It respects the first game, adds to it, and questions your biases to it in a way that is not meant to destroy it. It adds new characters with new motivations and backgrounds that fit into the world. The story is complicated, nuanced, and grounded. It has so much to say and the best way to enjoy this game is to go in blind and avoid the press. Your opinion is yours alone, and my opinion is that this game is the best narrative game I have played only rivaled by the first last of us.
4734) Why is it that lately, if you have the word “last” in your game/movie, it’s terribly controversial?  The Last Samurai, the Last Jedi, The Last of Us Part II, etc.
4735) This is not a game for the close-minded, or for those who think they know how the game developers Should have made it. Naughty Dog took risks with the story, and for those of us willing to let them tell it their way, it was absolutely worth it. This game is an masterpiece, not only how it plays, but in how it brings you into the story in ways you never expected.  In some ways, the backlash of the game is a good sign - you can't make progress and forge a new path without angering some people along the way. Maybe the best game of this console generation and a can't miss title for anyone willing to go on a journey.
4736) This is a complimentary story to the first game. While the first game was about the amazing and beautiful things that can come from loving someone, this game is about the awful and horrific things that can come from loving someone. Just because this story isn’t what many fans wanted and was very sad doesn’t mean that it was poorly written.
4737) Great game that tests the players emotions and feelings. The developers tell a great story from two perspectives that is normally not told and shows a world were no one is a hero but morally gray or complete evil.
4738) I'm sorry for all the kids that shouldn't be playing a grown up game and rate with a 0 this masterpiece with actual balls to do something different than any other game. Stop being cry babies.
4739) i get certain criticisms of the game and it's been fascinating to read differing views on what it says about violence, revenge, trauma, grief and love. however, "joel acted dumb" or "i wanted to kill this character and they didn't let me" isn't valid criticism and far from a reason to give this game 0. personally, this game was thought-provoking and stimulating in ways i'd never experienced before, and it's a masterpiece in my book.
4740) The game is a masterpiece that is way ahead of it's time. People are going to talk about it for years to come. It may not be as good as the original but it breaks boundaries. It makes you aware of the horror of the wicked acts you as a human can commit. There is nothing like it. The game explores taboo themes just like Silent Hill 2 did. Not many developers will be as brave as Naughty Dog was creating this flawless sequel. My favorite game of this generation.
4741) Very intense Game. Never seen such good storytelling. Gameplay, Graphics and Sound are also super cool.
4742) Good job!,I like the game. I have PS4 and i like play in the game. Thank you.
4743) A fitting sequel to such an amazing story. Loved every minute of part 2 and the direction they took the story of Ellie and Joel. I am lost for words. I would love to see where they take part 3 when and if they day comes. I am and always will be a huge fan. I recommend playing all the way through and decide for yourself your thoughts and feelings and not just base it on the haters. Definitely worth every minute of gameplay
4744) Awesome graphics
4745) One of the Best games of the history.It deserves a 10.,This is what Masterpiece means !,Bravo
4746) Loved it! An emotional rollercoaster. The story felt like the right choice to make. What happened with Joel makes the first game even more special. I can't wait for a third game. Thank you Naughty dog for a great game, accessibility, and adding diversity to the gaming industry!
4747) Masterpiece! The best graphics, excellent gameplay and an incredible and deep story accompanied by the best performances ever seen in a video game. Better than the first one in my opinion. I really don't understand haters saying that this game ruins the story of the first one when it`s the exact opposite, TLOU Part II makes the first one even better and gives a perfect closure to Joel and Ellie's arc.,in my opinion:,Best ND game ever,Best Game of the year,Best Game Ever Made
4748) It is masterpiece a game so good really Best game Ever l hope they make last of part 3 and soon tv show is coming
4749) Played stealth games since Metal Gear Solid 1 and Splinter Cell and loved them. Played horror games like Dead Space 1 and loved it....and played Last of Us 1 and loved it too. Recently i played Last of Us Part 2 and what should i say, it is perfect for stealth/horror and story fans. This game is amazing and art! It is a masterpiece for an adult/intelligent audience. Don't believe it? Try it yourself!
4750) one of the best games I've ever played in my life. It's just a very good game: the magnificent story that makes you cry more than any other game, the characters, how they are developed, the gameplay, the graphics, the lighting, it looks real, it’s just an amazing game I recommend the all. And for those who didn't have the same experience as me, I'm sorry that they couldn't feel what I felt playing the game that for me is the game of the year.
4751) I was a huge fan of the first part and i honestly cannot understand the reviews made in here. It is a matter of opinion but you could objectively say, that the game is well crafted and especially the details and handcrafts in it making the world atmospheric and the storyline interesting. It looks like ppl couldn't distinguish between own expectations & what a developer could aim for with their game.
4752) Played both. Didn't read spoilers. Wasn't sure I was gonna love 2 as much as 1. Thought a basic revenge story would be boring. People on the internet are skimming through this game as if it were a reading assignment due the next day (it shows). The game tells a complex tale of coping with grief, challenging you to objectively humanize the enemy, and themes of evolving identity analogous to the first game. Along with a ton more that I know I missed on my first playthrough. If you are on the fence about playing this game stop reading reviews, stop watching content, just find a way to play the game yourself. The experience is powerful if you just allow yourself to experience it organically. Or... Continue to spread negativity and gain nothing but contempt from others I.e. post comments about a game you truly never attempted to care about in a futile attempt to get revenge for a plotline that you disagree with. The game won't change and you being mad about it does nothing about it sales figures 4 million copies in 3 days. Learn to move on.
4753) Phenomenal sequel. I went into this game with quite a bit of worry due to the abundance of negative reviews regarding the narrative choices. One of the major gripes being a particular scene involving a golf club. That scene set up the character Abby. That scene made me despise her and want nothing more than to hunt her down in as Ellie in an epic revenge story.,The story ended up making me love and understand Abby as a character and completely understand and sympathize with her motives. It made me realize the impact of Joel's actions in the first game, and that the impact of those actions were felt on more than just faceless NPC's.,Don't ignore this game.
4754) People say that the deaths in this game make it horrible and the ending is the worth ending ever Let me tell you my friend that these people didnt played the game or they’re simply immature,I played the first game and it was amazing and the ending was so opened and now the second one is so similar everything is okayyyy Joel in TLOU1 lost his daughter and we also lost Tess and Sam and he’s brother but nobody said **** about it!,Now we lost Joel to give us the same feeling as Ellie to commit vengeance and it’s a great way to feel the story but the cost is really high. They gave us Abby’s story to also know why they killed Joel and make us know that there’s no good or bad people only people and just like Joel and Ellie we could’ve played with other random survivors/criminals cuz that’s what they are.
4755) Just AMAZING. The game is great at every point possible. Graphics, gameplay, story. It's not a game for everyone, you must play it open-minded and know that's a game about people and humans behavior. I like it very much, one of the best games of my life so far.
4756) When I first finished watching the game. I was so mad to naughty dog and Neil Druckman for **** up my favorite game so I took a brake to stop thinking about the game and how bad it was but after thinking for a few weeks I realized that Ellie did not want revenge because she lost Joel but because she did not have a chance to forgive Joel. During the game we have some flashbacks of Joel and Ellie after the end of The Last of Us she finds out that Joel lied to her about what happened at the Hospital.,Another we have a flashback near the end of the game that shows us the talk that Ellie and Joel had before the death of Joel and Ellie says I don't think I will never forgive you(for what happened at the Hospital) but I will like to try to. The next day Joel gets murdered that means that Ellie never had a chance to try or forgive Joel. She understand that killing Abby will not change everything because that is not the reason she is mad(because Abby killed Joel). This is my opinion of the game which in my view makes more sense. People will not think the same way as I do but I don't care because everybody has different opinions. I am giving a 10 because I love the story and the graphics and audio are super good.
4757) One of the best games I've ever played. The story is haunting and bleak, but authentic and filled with incredible characters and moments. Everything about the game has improved upon the first one.
4758) From love to hate, the most intense feelings that a human being experiences in this masterpiece for the fact of transmitting many found emitions and teaches us that revenge rots you inside, transforms you into an animal that only hunts for what it does and shows us that there are no heroes or villains we are only people in extreme circumstances and we make selfish decisions for our well-being Wow
4759) I can see why people don’t like it but I can’t see how people hate it. I think it’s a very good game with a very good story, gameplay, audio, visuals and characters.
4760) Thank you Naughty Dog for making such an amazing game. I loved the first one game and this is an absolute masterpiece, one that takes patience,  empathy, and grounding yourself in the world the characters are living in to full grasp the compelling story. This has to be one of the best narrative driven games I've played since the original game. I'm not sure how anyone could dislike this game or anyone rating this below a 5, what is your definition of 5? A blu ray disk that spins and has a loading screen? Six years of dedication went into this game and it shows around every corner and building. The emotions this game instilled in me when I was playing was like nothing I've ever experienced in a game before. This is truly a work of art, one that should be applauded for it's accomplishments. For those disliking the story, you might want to consider a lesson in History and the brutally of the real world and perhaps even the foundations of Psychology to comprehend empathy and sympathy. The games story takes some degree of intelligence to appreciate and understanding the meaning of what these fictional characters are experiencing and how the story unfolds for them.
4761) Great game and story that’s worth playing. Great ending too that will shock you!!
4762) Don't let the hate train fool you. It's a very nice game. If you liked the first one you are going to love this one.
4763) A masterpiece that we will never see again a lot of people just can't understand it or just don't want to.
4764) I haven’t played anything good like this game for a long time. There was a small amount of LGBT stuff right in my face, but overall game is amazing
4765) Loved this game so much, is hard to believed that someone didn't like it, great story and amazing visuals
4766) This game was incredible. Without saying luck about the plot, it was absolutely worth the wait and I am absolutely speechless. Bravo to the entire Naughty Dog team. Separately, I’d like to applaud the huge push for strong female, minority, and queer representation in this game. I think that everyone who’s fuming because of their own personal prejudices needs to take a solid look in the mirror and ask why.
4767) My head is still spinning even after beating it 2 weeks ago. This story will go down in history as something that pushes gaming narratives to areas we never thought possible. It excels in all aspects it wanted to and much like it’s prequel, is the perfect swan song to an amazing Sony console
4768) It's just, dramatically, perfect. I wouldn't change a comma of this masterpiece: I don't want to go into detail, because it would be difficult to depict its being, and it would take right words. I'll be brief. The Naughty Dog was brave, she took risks; but she took a good risk and she did great. I felt more of those emotions, which start from happiness, to anger, to sadness, compassion, empathy, to the point of being empty. I didn't think I could feel all these emotions put together, in fact there was a time when I didn't know what emotions to feel - I was in trouble. Every point of view was important, and you have to be the most analytical to understand and appreciate what it is and that will be the masterpiece of years. Morality is there, and if you have not understood the meaning of history or, indeed, morality, you have not really understood what The Last Of Us is in general.,P. S. Some critics are nonsensical, have the same modus operandi and all look the same: clearly they come from people who have not played it, those who have not understood it, who do not have a Playstation, or who feel "offended" by the themes covered in the game.
4769) This game is a heart-breaking test of human empathy, that leaves you exploring with your heart more than your controller at most steps. Some minor character decisions stumped me at first, but those of the main cast felt nothing but deliberate, precise, and thought-provoking. Girlfriend Reviews does an amazing exploration of what this game tries to achieve, and I recommend anybody unsure about how they feel use that video to guide their reflections. There is a game you play here, and then one you feel. And damn, the feeling is one of a kind. 10/10 in a heartbeat.
4770) One of the greatest games I have ever played!! Thank you Naughty Dog!! Keep up the good work!
4771) A game that gets your emotions on a level that I didn’t thought was possible from a game. You Will smile, cry and most of all scream. This game is something else and everyone should play it. 10/10 to naughty dogs latest masterpiece.
4772) I loved the game! Great story and a very well done game. The story was touching and it was fun to play different characters
4773) Beautiful game and really toys with your emotions. Gameplay was as flawless as the first and you get really invested in the characters. NOTHING is a forced agenda it all felt very natural. I think you have to play this game to give it a review. Everything's explained and you actually become sympathetic towards abby even when she killed Joel which is something i was adamant i wasnt going to do as i loved Joel. The ups and downs of how  you feel towards, ellie and abby is very challenging and i havent played a game like  it since Heavy rain. Overall one of my favourite game  and im sad to see its been given such bad reviews by people who have never played it just because they are butt hurt about a leak.,9/10 because i felt going back around the same map was pretty annoying as abby. Especially the aquarium.
4774) I honestly can't see another game this year even coming close to the experience I had while playing the Last of Us Part II. As a fan of the original game, this is a beautiful and brutal continuation of all the groundwork the first game created. It's a stunningly crafted game from top to bottom, the work, love and attention to detail that is on display throughout this game is jaw dropping.,,Combat feels fluid, tactical and exhilarating. It has the same brutal impact of the original’s, mixed with an increased variety of ways to approach scenarios with some thrilling results. The environments are some of the most detailed in any game I’ve experienced and the graphics are some of the best on either console or PC. The music and sound design are also stand out along with the brilliant acting and mo-cap from the likes of Ashley Johnson, Laura Bailey and Troy Baker who breath such life into their characters. The story has proven to be incredibly divisive but I really feel its one of the strongest parts of the game. It drew me in completely and I just had to keep playing as I was desperate to know how it would all come to an end.
4775) This game is the best thing I've ever seen. The players are just salty because Joel is dead. If anyone would like to play the game, play because you will not regret a thing from that game.
4776) This game is not a bad guy, you just need to go through it completely and a haven in its 1 direction is not justified. the gameplay is 9/10 very good but the grass is invisible it is strange. environment and development 12  10. plot 6  10 plot is good except for the last 8 hours of playing for a rogue character that doesn’t give anything, but the main plot is good. rating 7.5  10. let the users have an honest rating not underestimated by haters. and the little brother will be lower if you have not played 1 half-game.
4777) Incredible story written by ND.,Neil just made me love Joel even more, this game is amazing and makes you feel every single character in it.,I has necer seen such a good cast and way to tell a story.
4778) I'm not going to deny that this game was hard to play. Not difficult, just emotionally trying. That was exactly what the intention was. To me Naughty Dog took a huge risk here and it played out beautifully. It is well set up for a sequel and hopefully they won't keep us waiting another 8 yeatw!
4779) Astonishing what enormous babies some people are ¯_(ツ)_/¯ Pretty good game.
4780) The story, characters, and gameplay are beautiful and gorgeous. I love everything about the story because it's so rich and serious. the characters are superbly executed. Gameplay mechanics are enhanced compared to the previous part. MUST PLAY DEFINITELY
4781) The graphics are the best of the generation.,The gameplay is a huge evolution of the first.,The story is something i've never seen in a game before.,This game is not for happy endings, this game is not for heroic characters with heroic deaths. It's realistic, and those who do not understand It will surely hate it.
4782) Awesome. Fantastic expirience
4783) This game was one of the best I've ever played.  Early on, it forces you out of the "feel good" comfort zone that too many games embrace.  This game lights your emotions on fire, burns them to the ground, and leaves you sitting empty... ready for deep introspection to fill you back up with something  new.,If you wanted something to make you feel good, look elsewhere.  If you want a game that will make you think and feel in real life ways, look no further.fu
4784) The last of us Part 2 is absolutely amazing! Graphics are fantastic, gameplay is outstanding and story is formidable. 10/10
4785) masterpiece and nice, i like it, it worth all the years that we wait for it.
4786) This game is a gut wrenching masterpiece that you will feel in your heart long after the credits roll. It's a testament to how much we love the characters from the first game after only spending 15 hours with them,,No amount of spoilers or hate from angry gamers can prepare you for the actual story of this game. You have to play it from beginning to end to fully understand what Part II is actually about- and when the game reaches it's end you will not be the same.,,Very few stories in any type of format can deliver such emotional blows one after the other and yet still somehow make you want to continue.,,This game is about violence, about actions with severe consequences, about forgiveness, loss, pain,  unfairness, cruelty and a shattered heart.,,Please enjoy.
4787) One of the best games of all times! Very good story ang high graphics! Perfect game!
4788) Great sequel to a perfect game, The Last of Us Part II explores what life is like for our beloved protagonists 4 years after the end of the first game. This is not a happy ending kind of video game, it's more real than anything I've played before and the experience is something else. The story is very interesting and there's a sadness to it that's quite difficult to understand and accept, but kudos to ND for making it possible. There are parts of the game that are hard to get through because you feel this sadness, this anger towards some characters, you feel that life is not fair and you wish it were different. The characters were real, interesting and very deep, unlike anything I've seen before in a video game. The gameplay is fun, the mechanics are VERY different from the first one (especially in combat), but it makes it a lot of fun because you can play the same level using different techniques and strategies, which makes this game fun to replay many times.,In terms of the storytelling, I thought it was a huge risk that ND took with the way things went down, but ultimately, it was the right choice. I believe this game will mark all future gaming experiences, where video games start merging with other types of media (like films), which makes this game all that more interesting.,TLOU II is a must play, it's not the same to watch or stream it as it is to play it; the experience is very unique and different for everyone, which only adds to how awesome the game is. I recommend it for all fans of the original as well as people who look for games that touch heavy subjects and are not afraid to rethink their thoughts and ideals.
4789) phenomenal game i love every second of it , thanks naughty dog for the hard work
4790) a beautiful story, fantastic gameplay, perfect in several aspects, in short, amazing game
4791) WOW, it's an amazing story! Please, don't read anything, just play. Gameplay is really good, graphic - great and music - awesome.
4792) The game in general is incredible. You have to play it to truly understand it. There are parts in the game I’m not a fan of but overall it definitely one of my favorite games
4793) Amazing game very interesting story. Kept me hooked throughout the whole playthrough. Not knowing what will happen around every corner
4794) One of the most awe inspiring games I've had the pleasure of playing. Solid gameplay and a story that puts players through a rollercoaster ride of emotions. Graphically stunning. This game is a work of art and takes full advantage of what the ps4 can do. Don't let the internet trolls fool you. The review bombing is nothing but petty hateful trash. This game is worth every penny spent.
4795) Awesome, It’s a kind of a game unforgetable. It’s a high level art of games.
4796) Damn this was an incredible game. The best story graphics and animation of any game BAR NONE. Genuinely impactful. This is art.
4797) This game is a masterpiece. I have never played such a great, terrible game before. I laughed, cried, was disgusted, had palpitations. This game is brilliant. Thanks ND!
4798) 10/10 great game, really plays with your emotions. Lots of back and forth and an investment that makes you explore your own morals.
4799) Don’t listen to the haters review bombing the **** out of a game they never even played. TLOU2 is in a league of its own and has set the bar for the industry. Yes, there are minor gripes to be had, but they’re wholly inconsequential in comparison to how well this game shines.
4800) Incredible game. One moment it had be tearing up, then it had me laughing, and then it scared the **** out of me. The acting and writing in this game are unparalleled. If there was an Oscar for video game acting, this game would clean house.,,The game is also filled with jaw dropping set-pieces and some of the best animation I've ever seen in a game.,,I understand why some people are upset or disappointed with this game, even if I don't share their sentiment. The deciding factor of whether you like this story or not rests on accepting its inciting incident. Personally, I like the direction it takes. The only death that could have provoked such a warpath for Ellie is the death of Joel, and I thought it was handled beautifully, especially the scenes of Ellie reminiscing in Joel's home, her inability to finish Joel's song, and the emotionally resonant flashbacks.,,Liking the story also hinges on how you feel about Abby. I personally liked Abby--I found her personality more likable than Ellie's. She had a deeper moral depth, and her reasons for killing Joel are, I believe, justified.,,The score should also be mentioned. It had me hooked right from the start with several standout moments like the early sequence in the mountain forest. The music lent itself to the tension. And **** this is a tense game. At several points I had to pause to catch my breath, especially in the subway tunnels, the Descent, and Ground Zero.,,The Last of Us Part II is a heavy game, dealing with difficult themes. Where the first game explores the lengths one goes to for love, this one explores the lengths of hate and revenge. Joel gave up the development of a cure for his love for Ellie, and Ellie gave up everything for her hatred of Abby. And I believe Ellie would have lost even more if she had killed Abby, because the satisfaction of revenge is rarely something that lasts, like what Abby experienced after killing Joel.,,Overall, from the tense gameplay to the gripping story, this is hands down one of the best games I've ever experienced.  I highly recommend it, even if I know some people will not like it.
4801) It’s the  most sophisticated  game masterpiece I've ever  played full stop.
4802) Best game I’ve ever played. People who are mad and rating this game low don’t get the story.
4803) This is hands down the best game I have ever played. The story is incredibly deep, disturbing and even depressing at times, but never feels far fetched, unrealistic or exaggerated.,It shows in a brutally honest way that all actions have consequences. Well done, naughty dog. You created a masterpiece!
4804) this is an amazing game, but the end left a feeling of understatement, I'm waiting for the story to continue... And those who talk bad about it are just not very smart
4805) Something we as consumers of games must understand is that the game developers do not have any obligation to tell players the story that players want to be told. The game or any art in general is the creators' baby. You don't have any say in where the story *needs* to go. We are just travellers, going on a journey in the creators' world.,,So, with that out of the way, if you've read the leaks and decided not to play it, you're doing yourself a massive disservice. This game is a technical and, yes, storywise, a masterpiece. I didn't personally like some of the elements in the game. But that doesn't make it *objectively* bad. It's like this - mango may be my favorite ice cream flavor. So it doesn't mean all other ice cream flavors are bad. I can still enjoy very much many other ice cream flavors if the one I want isn't available.,,This is a LONG game. It really takes you on a journey that turns several characters' fates on their heads. It makes you feel intense hate, grief, joy, misery and fear. So, buckle up. Let all your preconceptions and prejudices go and just let the creators tell the story they wanted to tell.
4806) One of the few games that has hooked me throughout the whole thing. If you like exploring abandoned buildings and brutal combat with a great story, play this game.
4807) The Last of Us Part 2 is a masterpeice. in terms of gameplay, mechanics, artistic design and narrative this is obvious. I understand the hate towards story decisions, but they are expertly constructed and all feel right for the world, and for the characters.
4808) This game is amazing. The grafics, the combat, the story, the characters, the crafting system, everything is great.
4809) This is easily one of the best games I've ver played, im already on my second play through because I enjoyed it so much the first time. I waited 7 years for this sequel and I am more than satisfied with what I got, which is undoubtably a masterpiece. The themes of the story are beautifully executed, with complex and compelling characters that made me unsure how I wanted the story to end. The gameplay was excellent throughout, with engaging combat that has many solutions limited only by your creativity. The plot was compelling and emotional, supported by all of the notes you find and read throughout the game that paint a grim picture of the darkest aspects of humanity. The game is bleak and sad and does not let up for a second, your heart strings will be worn thin by the time you get to the mesmerizing conclusion at the end of the game. This is the best game i've played since Bloodborne, and I cannot recommend it enough.
4810) Not a story about revenge, it's all about violence and how dangerous is using violence, The last of us was good but Part II is a great masterpiece and without any doubt, the best video game of all time.
4811) As beautiful a game as part one was. The same mix of story development and exploration, stealth combat, and panicky running as before. Not many games make you think this hard about the protagonists’ motives and moral choices. Slightly clunky character movement, but that aside, as near perfect a survival horror game as it’s possible to code.
4812) Amazing game that makes you go through a roller coaster of emotions. A different story but one that I enjoyed. Graphics and gameplay is probably the best part. Story could've been better, but this one is rlly great too.
4813) MasterPeace!!!! Gameplay 5 Star
4814) A solid game experience. Loved the gameplay, caracters and the story. Not for everyone, but for me it  was a very good game.
4815) Technically perfect... And story was strong, deep and sad... I cannot understand why people are angry... ND made a very good job on showing 2 sides of the coin and how action/reaction may change lives.
4816) Absolutely fantastic - best game I’ve ever played. The story (whilst it not being what we wanted) is still fantastic and the gameplay is astonishing.,Credit to Naughty Dog and everyone involved in making the game.
4817) A fantastic game.  One of the best I've seen.  Definitely, is in the top of the current generation of consoles, and possibly in general.  I do not understand the anger of the forehead.  A beautiful story, great characters, a sea of ​​emotions, an incredible picture, unique gameplay.  10/10
4818) It took me just one day short of two weeks to finish it. I can see why media like it so much and why some players hate it as much. If you played it through, you’ll see why it’s a masterpiece.,I don’t think anyone else in the gaming history has done anything like it. Basically ludonarrative dissonance in games is a solved problem after this. But obviously not everyone is going to take the same path as Naughty Dog has.
4819) People have always said AAA game devs should take more risks, but when they do, they get reviewbombed. The people complaining about the story in the game simply don't understand storytelling or basic narrative structure. The point of the ending is to show that both Ellie and Abby share many qualities, and are very similar characters. The point of having these morally grey characters is to enhance the connection the audience feels to the characters. This is something that Naughty Dog have succeeded in, which is why I give this game a 10.
4820) This Game is a masterpiece.,Everything is done perfectly and the story is very well built as well as the characters that are developed to perfection. You need to play this game.
4821) 10/10 yep, feck all of the haters, and yeah the story may be a little fecked up, but if you are a big brain, you'll get it, Gameplay and every aspect is 11/10
4822) Absolutely phenomenal. Masterful gameplay plus an unmatched story. I've never left a game as emotionally impacted and I mean that as a good thing.
4823) Absolutely stunning. Easily a 10/10. Another high water mark for Naughty Dog. Had me on the edge of my seat the entire time.
4824) 10/10 ;_; best game i've ever played so far. I have no words to describe how good the last of us part 2 is
4825) (No spoilers!) I went into the game blind and avoided all the leaks beforehand. I didn’t even read any reviews. I re-played the first game right before, which helped me get back into the setting of the world and the characters. I absolutely loved part II. I was amazed by it and right after finishing wanted to shout into the world how amazing the game is. So don’t let yourself be too influenced by some of the hate (not saying there can’t be legitimate criticism!) and just play it, you will not regret it. The story holds up, and while it is very dark and leaves you kind of depressed for a few days after playing it, it will just really stick with you. If you don’t like consuming that kind of media, which is absolutely legitimate, you might want to stay away from this one. ND definitely took some risks story-telling wise, but they greatly paid off in my opinion. It’s a top 3 game of the decade for me.  P.S.: Really do yourself a favor and play TLOU 1 right before, even if you’ve already played it. It’ll make you care for the story and the characters so much more and you’ll pick up on things that you might’ve missed otherwise. TLOU Part II is definitely not a stand-alone title in my opinion.
4826) Down of the best storytelling in media ever, maybe some are not ready for it.
4827) The longer I think about this game, the more I like it. Every part of the game was gripping, and the level of detail that Naughty Dog provides is stunning. Oh, and I love the story.
4828) Awesome game. Well done. Don't listen to the haters. Just play it and find out your own.
4829) This game is heartbreaking but the way naughty dog was able to make us feel the actual emotions of the différents characters we play is genuinely incredible.
4830) Work of Art!,One for the books. A tremendous emotional journey, written and directed in a way that makes most narrative driven titles in this medium seem safe and unchallenging. An exercise in finding empathy and resolution in a broken world populated by extremely flawed characters. A title that demands self-reflection on how we condition ourselves to selectively elevate and suppress flaws and virtues of people based on entrenched biases.,A game about the dangers of emotionally missing a forest for its trees that hilariously (yet predictably) translated in a vocal and immature critical backlash from people guilty of that same mistake.,Ignore the silly user score. Its something special that I'm sure will influence other creative minds in the industry to elevate story-telling to levels this industry never tried to. At least I hope so. It would be a shame if this level of maturity, respect for the audience's intelligence and courage went to waste with no follow-up.,Buy it. A joy to play and a story that stays with you long after the console is turned off.,A classic to be remembered.
4831) Absolutely and indubitably the best game I've ever experienced. Don't let other people sway you away. Play it first.
4832) To be quite frank, this game hurt me. It left me emotionally scarred. Joel’s death was brutal and the fact that you controlled Abby right before that segment made the whope scene even more gruesome. I felt like i betrayed Joel. So i understood Ellie’s urge for vengence. I was ready to make Abby pay. I loved the romance between Ellie and Dina and how both really loved eachother. When the change happened and I had to play Abby I was at first furious, but after seeing her interact with her friends and with other people I realised that she’s alot like Joel and Ellie and it’s not uninamaginable that they could have bern friends if things were different. I believe that one of the most touching themes of the game is the dehumanization of the enemy. Abby isn’t looking at Joel as an individual, he’s just the **** that killed her father. Ellie is not seeing the persons she’s killing throughout the story as persons, merely as obstacles in her way to revange. I think it was genius for the creators to humanize Abby and to show that she’s a person who’s flawed, but also that can crack bad joke and that can have fun with the people that she loves. In most media she would be a moustache twirling villain. I understood why Abby wanted to torture and kill Joel, if someone killed your parent, you’ll most likely want to do the same thing. Thinking that this act of violence will solve anything is wrong. That’s way the heartbreak of Ellie leaving Dina and JJ to finally kill Abby is more impactfull. In this moment Abby is more in the right than Ellie. Abby spares Ellie’s live and Ellie has everything that she could ever dream for, but she just can’t let go of the hate. The dissapointment and sadness in Dina’s face when Ellie leaves is that same as ours. Dina and we don’t want to see Ellie leave and lose this life that she managed to get after all the loss that she has suffered. Ellie’s choice to go back after Abby is not supposed to make sense, it is something instinctual, no logic or reason can convince her to stop her crusade. The final fight between Ellie and Abby, after Ellie cuta her down the pole is very emotional. Seeing Abby caring for Lev as Joel cared for her  humanizes Abby in Ellie’s eyes. Before the fight she thinks about letting them go, but her need to fight her, to have some kind of resolution is greater. Only when she is about to win and to accomplish everything she wanted, she realises that it was not worth it and that the Joel from Jackson, the calm parental figure that took her to museum on her birthday and that played gee-tar on the porch of his house would be okay with letting go of the hate. The final discussion between Ellie and Joel, in hindsight, gave Ellie some kind of relief, I believe she was able to forgive Joel for his actions because she saw what Abby and herself were capable of doing for the people that they loved, so now she understood his actions better. The empty house and Dina taking JJ and leaving is the price she has to pay for this lesson, although in my headcannon they worked things out and got back together. In conclusion, The Last of Us Part II is a difficult, brutal game, that is not afraid to make bold decision that may not please some fans. It is not the safe story that they could have told. It is not a perfect game, some people will hate it. The pacing of the game can be a little jarring, but i believe that it was necessary to simpatize and to humanize Abby, which was always to goal of the game, to create a character that appears evil and unredeemable, and show that from a different perspective heroes appear villains and villains appear heroes. As a game and as a piece of art this game made me feel emotions that i didn’t expect a game to be capable to convey, for this reason and for the gameplay, sound, visuals this game is 10/10 in my book.
4833) Made an account right after finishing the game just to review it because the current user rating is an insult to such a brilliantly crafted game/story!!! Willing to bet the majority of the reviews are just from the first 2 hours of the story, or due to whatever “agenda” people are complaining about. The game is amazing.  The story is very well written. Emotions go all over the place. The game physics are incredible, too. 11/10.
4834) A stunning masterpiece, and truly the next level of video game story telling, immersive gameplay, and enriching environments. The bar has been raised.
4835) Generation defining game that defies the little brain that the haters have inside their big heads. A technical marvel with solid gameplay and amazing story. GOTY.
4836) Powerfull storyline, amazing grafics and gameplay. An incredible emotional experience
4837) The last of us part 2 lives up to expectations in delivering a solid story with a roller coaster of emotions
4838) I really enjoy playing this piece of art. It was a rollercoaster and it eventually did move me. Very good, stop hating on it without giving it a try.
4839) This game is about Ellie becomes the bigger person by not killing the person that made her life miserable, it is about seeing the two sides of the coin, it is about two person who break the cycle of violence their people began.,I cant understand how this game ruin ellie and joel characters if not the opposite with Joel death Ellie becomes even a more bigger and more developed character , in a couple of years people will truly understand what a masterpiece this game was...,Well this is my perspective
4840) phenomenal. i was moved and challenged every step of the way. the locations, characters and events in the game had be hooked from start to finish.
4841) The game was absolutely awesome ... Everything was built up based in consequences and emotions.. it's easily gonna be a game that will never forgotten.. gameplay was great but besides all the story was a very well mix of emotions to make you fill what the characters in the game feel. 10/10 all day long screw trashtalkers. Great job to Naughty Dog!
4842) Best of the year so far! Amazing story, graphics, music, sounds...Incredible! I didn't finish it yet but already want to start it again! Don't lose it!
4843) One of the best, perhaps the best, gaming experience of my life. A masterpiece.
4844) I liked it a lot. I do not get all the zeors. If this is a zero game you really deserve only FIFA and micro transactions lol
4845) I've been waiting for this game for 7 long years ! But before the release, I was nervous because people began to throw mud at the game that has not yet been released ,and then went to the opinions of players on Metacritic who began to say that the game denigrates everything and will make my children become homosexuals, and so on! But fortunately as always it turned out to be the opinion of PC users, homophobes and other stupid people.At the very beginning of the game, I thought that I was stabbed with a knife ,but the more I played the game, I understood more and more what the creators wanted, thank you for trying to convey your thoughts through suffering, sorry stupid people that they do not deserve such games (((Graphics, production, etc. you are a priori geniuses ,I do not understand how you can give out such graphics on the console in 2013,my rtx 2080ti bitterly cries !Thank you again, thank you very much.From Russia with love, do not be very angry at our gamers they are mostly good ,but just very poor and because of this angry at everything(((
4846) story gets a lot of flack but feels both in line with the original and bold in how it pushes out in new directions. gameplay is much improved over the first. accessibility options are huge, and let me fine tune exactly how i wanted to play. it was intense, it was exhausting, it was...confrontational, yes, but i've honestly never experienced anything like it.
4847) Amazing game! Many thanks for your work, after I played this games I've got a lot something to thing about.
4848) One of the best games ever created! The Last of Us Part 2 is a masterpiece worthy of its predecessor.
4849) This game is very good.,I am 40 year old gamer, been gaming since the late 1980'es. I think this game is made for older gamers, who have some life experience, have a family, wife and kids. It is so much easier to relate to the feelings love, trust and relationships when you are a little older and more mature. Also we understand the reference from the 1990.,I like the story, is much more then revenge, its about humanity, empathy relationship, love, hate, losing loved ones, and much more.,Graphics are beautiful maybe the best ever on PS4?  the small details are so good, the way they characters express feelings are just amazing, and the world is also beautiful.,If you like me love to take your time playing games, explore each corner of the world, read everything you find, this game is for you.
4850) What a game!... I have never had such an experience like that. Magnifique!!!
4851) the last of us part 2 is really worth to play. I have to wait for 7 years to see this masterpiece. Whatever people try to drag TLOU2 down, It still shines like a diamond and It will be the game of our generation and the game of PS4 era
4852) The best storyline in gaming so far, TLOU games just can’t be beat. And the guitar scenes are the best use of the DS4 touch pad that I’ve seen.
4853) Graphyc and gameplay are perfect, the level design is eons superior to the first game, the history is very difficult to accept, its objectively a well written history, but its not made to make anybody happy, the game does not try to give any satisfaction to the player, and thats just a design choice, not a bad thing. the game isnt for everyone, but for me is the best game on the ps4.
4854) Once again Naughty Dog tells a compelling gut-wrenching story that lives in your heart, soul and mind long after you're done playing.  Beyond the amazing visuals and fun gameplay, the story is engaging and emotional. Not only does it explore dark themes like vengeance and hate, but also more philosophical ideas of otherness, perspective and ego. It forces you to live with discomfort for some time in the hopes that you gain understanding and appreciation. Sadly, not everyone will understand the journey or the message (which is not simply "revenge is bad lolz"). Despite all the vitriol this game is getting, many of us see what you did there, Naughty Dog. Bravo!
4855) I understand why people feel how they feel about the story, but honestly you can't look at this game and say it's not one of the best looking, immersive, well acted and well developed games ever released. If you're reading through user reviews to gage whether or not to get the game, go ahead and look somewhere less polarized.
4856) The gameplay is vastly improved upon since the first game. The animations are incredible. The story, whilst polarizing, is very intentional and takes the player on a journey through so many destinations, troubles, characters, and emotions. This game is great, and I highly recommend it.
4857) This is a great game, honestly. I had second thoughts about buying this game, but it was totally worth it.
4858) Best game of generation. A lot of people just can’t handle the fact that the history didn’t go as they expected, the circumstances of the game and the consequences are based in what would happen in real life. Life in a world post apocalyptic is sad and there’s death. Haters should get over themselves...
4859) This game is a masterpiece of storytelling that subverts our cultural love for justified violence. There are many people who criticize this game for not giving a satisfying ending, but that isn't the point of the story. So many are calling for a "good guy vs bad guy" story instead, but our culture is already flooded with those. That kind of story is easy to do. Letting Joel live would have been easy to do. Letting Ellie kill Abby would have been easy to do. Go watch a superhero movie if you don't want to question your morals. Stories don't exist solely to make us feel good; if that were the case, Shakespeare wouldn't be a cultural icon for storytelling. If anything, this is the most realistic representation of conflict I've ever seen in a story. Nobody commits terrible acts without reason, and the more you come to know about someone the more you start to understand their justifications. As much as we push the "justice" narrative, "good" and "evil" are not in any way realistic, or distinct, groups. Seeing this fleshed out in a story hurts, and it's easy to blame "bad storytelling" when you're forced to confront your morals. Nobody wants to empathize with the person they hate, and that's the point. Ellie and Abby showed us the cycle of violence perpetuated by rage; one that couldn't be solved by killing, no matter how many bodies piled up. If the story ended with either one of them dead it would have been a cheap ending. An unrealistic ending. The ending feels underwhelming because it's not the "justice porn" that we're so used to consuming. Justice feeds into the cycle. This is a story about letting go of that cycle. Abby did it when she saw how Lev would come to hate her if she fed into it and Ellie did it when she realized how brutal she had become (which was not, as some may think, a disservice to the innocent lives she had already taken, but rather an acknowledgment of the fact that bodies would continue to pile lest she change). This cycle was also echoed in the greater story of Seattle, the killing of two WLF children igniting the endless war between the WLF and the Seraphites. The Last of Us Part II isn't meant to give you another wholesome story, that's what the first one was for. Its purpose is to undermine our sense of moral justice by showing us the destruction it begets.
4860) The gameplay and graphics is amazing and is one of the best I've ever played and gameplay and graphics deserve a 10 and to be honest when I first completed the game I didn't like the story too much so I thought it would be a 7 but after reflecting I give it a 10 yet there is still room for improvement to the story, the story isn't bad but the fact that the story did not reach it's potential is why so many people are angry and disappointed. Personally I think that there needed to be more Joel in the game either at the start of the game or by adding more flashbacks of Joel and Ellie together.
4861) The game is amazing dont listen to haters play it the story and characters are amazing and its an emotional journey told from two sides really well done.
4862) Game:,Gameplay is at a high level. There are mechanics from the first part but there is also a lot of new ones, for example crawling - it gives a lot of new opportunities during movement and during fights. I think that thanks to such mechanics, the game is almost not boring. Of course, the graphics are wonderful and realistic. Character faces always look vivid at different times. The sound setting is also very good. You can see that the naughty dog ​​always keeps the level of its games.,,Story:,In my opinion, not everything must always go our way. This game is just like that. Not predictable and suspenseful. Many people may not like the fact that we play the killer of our favorite character. I was that person myself. However, after learning about Abby's story, we can come to the conclusion that she is not really a bad character. Yes, she killed Joel, but all she wanted was revenge for her father. The ending in my opinion is also very good and leaves a lot of unspoken words. Anyway, it does the same as the first part. I think the game is brilliant and I had a lot of wonderful moments with it. I hope to come back to Ellie's story one day and find out what happened.
4863) Incredible achievement in game design and storytelling. Bold narrative that stays with you long after you finish playing.
4864) I wish I could delete my memory just to be able to re-watch it and be again astounded. I just want to thank all the Naughty Dog's people to have created again something that goes out of the schemes, something truly human and truly raw. Love u all.
4865) The game is **** amazing, not for dumb heads who picture joel their father figure, what can you expect of them. But the game has a very cool narrative to it. I am not talking about the LGBTQ angle which i don't appreciate much because it was a little overdone once abby’s part start, but they built a great story for abby and made the player uncomfortable by making them come to terms with that everything is not white and black, good and evil.,This game had a rating of 2.6 with 40000 votes within the fir 24 hours which is not possible because the playthrough took about 24-25 hours and youtube channels like geeks and gamers are making this game as issue due to DMCA claims, thats also fine but atleast target the entire issue and not just this game because they striked your channel, thats grudge that you hold and having more than half a million people watching him cry online about the DMCA and other youtubers made 40-50k negative review bombardment. Verdict - Game has a great storytelling, could have avoided the timeline touch but other than that story makes you leave your controller because your are that much attached to the characters and that is an accomplishment
4866) Beautiful game and well-written. The characters have great banter which makes them feel much more real, and the game emotionally invests you in the protagonists.,For the nay-sayers that say the story isn't original, so what? Yes it has the arc of an epic tragedy, but just because you see your car is going to crash doesn't mean it won't hurt less.  But the story doesn't focus just on revenge, but what comes after, juxtaposing Abby's redemption and trying to find a purpose in the face of grief and loss.,,To that that think the ending doesn't make sense/is anticlimatic, etc- rewatch the final scene with Joel, understanding the implications of his actions, and Ellie's response, and its implications for Ellie and Abby.
4867) Loved the game and how it plays with your emotions. Thank you Naughty Dog for making a great sequal!
4868) this game is just incredible, the best game i ever played, the character development is very well done, an exciting story and perfect graphics
4869) I think its emotional, sad, and other mixed feelings, im so happy that it got a secuel, too me a long a time to review the Game with a open heart so after days of deciding my coreano is a 10, ellie was right to brake the cycle of hatred, vengeance and violence yo Live a meaningful Life just like Joel wanted
4870) Another mind blowing experience. Graphics 10,Gameplay 9,Sound 9,Story 10,To rate this game lower than 5 is ridiculous. If game of thrones kill loved characters it’s fine but Lou2 gets slammed as bad story. The game was made to be thought provoking and it certainly did that for me. Anger leads to anger, hate breeds hate and as I’m currently playing my second playthrough I find myself wanting to get to the second portion of the game again. Knowing what I know now I want to enjoy Abbys story more. On my first playthrough I rushed, gave her less time and struggled to empathise her story due to the anger felt towards her. I don’t feel that anymore. The ending, wasn’t what I’d have wanted to see but still powerful enough and during the final fight every punch I swung gave me less and less enjoyment and satisfaction. Ellie struggling to play guitar which is in the end the best way to keep her connected to Joel’s spirit is tainted.
4871) The most beautiful and thought-provoking game ive ever played, The gameplay is top-notch! must play!
4872) This game is a emotional rolacoaster, I played the game on normal and yes it was a little difficult but thats not the point. My point is that this game will make you cry, all the deaths have meaning no one is safe from loss and sometimes vengance is not the answer. Losing someone you love is heartbreaking, and ellie going on this journey to get revenge for joles death is understandable but by the end you the player realise its wrong. I really hope you enjoy this game as much as I did.
4873) They killed my favourite character so i should break this game disc in a half,10/10
4874) Amazing! And I love how inclusive. The story is good, carathers are incredible, the graphics awesome.
4875) Truly emotionally stunning, intricate and mind-bendingly good game. Pinnacle of narrative gaming on the ps4.
4876) Seems like there is a lot of hate out there which probably stems from gamers having to play strong complex woman, as opposed to 'good old Joel' . That and the story is darker and less forgiving for characters' past actions. People need to get over their attachments to previous characters, especially given the post apocalyptic context. I  for one thought it was a fantastic game.  Beautiful visuals, enthralling gameplay and compelling story. The plot admittedly does get slightly frustrating in parts, but overall its both emotionally challenging and beautiful. The characters are way more complex and developed than we usually see in these types of game.  Hats off to Naughty Dog for pulling this off. Ignore the hate.
4877) A masterclass in balancing bold and thematic storytelling with refined and engaging gameplay. A must play.
4878) Ignore all the hate for this game as it's completely unwarranted. I played this start to finish and loved every minute of it. The story actually makes you think about the morality of your actions. The gameplay is definitely a fun part as well with how it involves strategy of how you engage the enemies be it stealth or full out aggression. The soundtrack is great in how its subtle and doesn't overshadow the gameplay or story. The upgrades and crafting system just add to the gameplay with its ability to help you create situations in how you build your character. Overall the story is it's best quality and people need to take a step back and realise how ahead of its time it really is.
4879) Ignore the review bombing, this game is an incredible sequel and excels in every aspect - gameplay, art, audio, you name it.,The polarizing response seems to be mainly for the story and I can see why: the game actually requires you to empathise and turn your brain on, something your average gamer either can't do or just doesn't care about.,If you are on the fence please just play it, you will not regret it.
4880) Amazing (but heart wrenching game) As for all the imbeciles that gave it a zero, they probably thought they were being asked for their IQ.  What a bunch of morons.  You gotta know giving this is a 0 is part of THEIR agenda.  My advice is to take your time with each section and make sure you explore as much as possible before you move on.
4881) This is the game of the year. Don,t see anyones review.  I will give 10/10 . This game is worthy to play. The story is awesome, the graphics are great and the gameplay is excellent.
4882) A masterpiece, very entertaining although the story is not the best it has incredible graphics and the gameplay is very good there are heartbreaking and emotional moments
4883) I'm a conservative Christian straight white male and I absolutely love this game. If you loved the first game, you owe it to yourself to experience this one. Forget the leaks and the naysayers. This game is a masterpiece. You might think you know what happens, but you don't.
4884) "Don't believe the user score, try it by yourself" it'll worth every penny you spent.,,11/10,If somehow the lord gave me a second chance at that moment... I'd do it all over again
4885) A great game given unfair reviews. Most people reviewing this game haven’t even played or didn’t give it a chance. Many bold decisions were made in this game which clearly lead to some backlash but if the player gives this game a chance they will not be disappointed. Best comparison for this game is metal gear solid 2, many people hated the new character in that game but in the end it ended up becoming one of the greatest games of all time. I don’t think this game is the greatest of all time or even as good as the last one but the gameplay and graphics are better and the story is still very good. All in all if you enjoyed the first game you will almost certainly enjoy this game.
4886) The best single player game in the WORLD!!!!!! Great story, beautiful graphics, the IA its AMAZING,
4887) The Last of Us Part 2 is the best game I have played.  Both the main and supporting cast are well rounded and help move the story forward.  The story is emotional and allows for players to feel the pain of the characters.  Neil Druckmann has made the closest thing to not only a perfect game but a perfect sequel which is far harder.  This game sits with Mass Effect 2 as the only two games that I can think of and have played that are better than the original.
4888) best game play & story ever! love new character love neil druckmann,i want part3!
4889) This game is consistant throughout and has very strong tension aside from the ending it took a lot of risks and especially since this game was so hyped up do to the success of the last one it was going to disappoint people no matter what. I think that people who were turned away by the abby segment to give her a chance and try to understand her point of view.
4890) A phenomenal game. Unlike others who seem to trash it without having actually played it, I took my time in finishing it. And my god has ND achieved another incredible game. One that will take you on a roller coaster of emotions. The gameplay is absolutely fantastic. Building on the previous game's strength and adding more variety to it. It's well worth your time and one that will stick with you for a while. Just like the previous one did.
4891) I liked the game a lot and I understood why they did what they did, although I understand why people dislike the changes.
4892) This is my best game. Thank you for everyone who make the last of us part 2. Hope to see your next game.
4893) A confronting story that delves deeper than a simple revenge story. A game that builds on what came before and, for me, successfully develops the world and characters of The Last of Us. Undoubtedly divisive but an experience that is worth having.
4894) Truly memorable and made me feel a lot of things. Both good and bad. Grappling with trauma and attempting to find meaning in a cruel world, oddly similar to current-day life.  It didn’t play out the way I’d wanted (which I believe can be a great thing - life never turns out the way you expected), but it explored what it means to be human. Complex and complicated. I genuinely feel that this story will stick with me for a very long time, which is what the point is of any art form.
4895) Did you ever hear the tragedy of Darth Plagueis The Wise? I thought not. It’s not a story the Jedi would tell you. It’s a Sith legend. Darth Plagueis was a Dark Lord of the Sith, so powerful and so wise he could use the Force to influence the midichlorians to create life… He had such a knowledge of the dark side that he could even keep the ones he cared about from dying. The dark side of the Force is a pathway to many abilities some consider to be unnatural. He became so powerful… the only thing he was afraid of was losing his power, which eventually, of course, he did. Unfortunately, he taught his apprentice everything he knew, then his apprentice killed him in his sleep. Ironic. He could save others from death, but not himself. Conner Hagerman out.
4896) Amazing game, really enjoyed! Graphics, game play and story is excellent.,Thank you naughty dog.
4897) Amazing game! It was an intense ride from beginning to the end. It messed with mind, played with my emotions but at the end I was left satisfied. Naughty Dog never disappoint!
4898) This is one of the most complex character driven stories I have ever seen, much less played through. Every character is so well fleshed out and detailed that every step feels like real people making real decisions. I do not agree with every decision the characters made, but I respect the reasons they made those choices. I have never had a game make me feel so many different emotions so vividly at each stage. I can understand why some players may not like certain parts, but to know if you enjoy this game you really must play it all the way through. This game truly makes you feel the emotions of the characters and walk in their shoes. If you let yourself be immersed in the story and follow the nuances of each character you can experience one of the most intense stories I have seen in a video game. I can't recommend this game enough, but I will say that you need to come into the game with an open mind and understand that they are telling a complicated story that will go to incredible places if you let it.
4899) Naughty Dog ..,,The divine game maker has once again put together a masterpiece.,,This game has set a new milestone towards the next generation!,,A breathtaking, emotional, cruel but also loving story awaits you.,,The game mechanics are just refreshing and innovative.,,The graphics have brought out the absolute maximum of the PS4 Pro, the display and depth of detail is simply incredible. Depending on the scenario, not far from photo realism.,,I really hope that there will be a high-end version for the PS5 again.,,Thanks to Naughty Dog that a finished version has finally come onto the market, some publishers should cut off a slice of it.,,To all haters..reading through the story before buying a game and / or rating it with an asterisk because of an anti-homophobic attitude does not testify to the intelligence needed to understand this game enough. Maybe you'd rather stay with Tetris?
4900) Game of decade!!! Don't listen to those people who put 0 ratings because of LGBTQ or poor story. They did not finish the game or just not feel the story. All decision that Ellie made contains emotional part that some people cannot understand and it is not a game problem, it is gamer problem.
4901) Thank you Naughty Dog for that emotional rollercoaster !!! In all aspects a improvement compare to the first game, a great sequel, a masterpiece.
4902) Absolutely loved it, beautiful and powerful. A true masterpiece. Gameplay was varied and mechanics clever and intuitive. Story was spectacular and thought provoking. Characters rich, diverse and complex. Left us wanting more. Does an excellent job of breaking away from conventions that many gamers can't let go of. It's refreshing and exactly what gaming needed. I would recommend this game to anyone, play it and see for yourself.
4903) This **** game reminded me the feeling of crying again after so many years.
4904) Bold, challenging & thought-provoking. Last of Us Part 2 doesn't care about providing you with a fun fan service sequel and goes in places that some fans of the original may dislike.,I suggest anyone just passing through here, ignore the hate, ignore the positivity, you owe it to yourself to play it and make up your own mind.
4905) I heard people saying this is The Last Jedi of video games. That's when I was certain I was going to love it. Jokes aside, this game truly is groundbreaking and I can understand why some people dislike it. It's very far for a conventional game, and it is by far the most effective psychological drama I've played so far. It really drained me emotionally, made me hate the characters I loved, and love the characters I hated. One last thing I can say is that this is a game ahead of its time and a lot of people will grow to like it many years from now when this type of hyper mature story will be more popular in this fairly young storytelling medium. Thank you Naughty Dog for your bravery to break stereotypes and conventions and tell us this thought-provoking story. You have our full support, the people who loved this sequel, and we await the next entry in this brilliant franchise.
4906) The perfect sequel. The story that had to be told.,The number of critics (good or bad) and all that buzz shows that they made the right choices.
4907) One of the best games for the PS4. A lot of people are arguing about how the story takes some controversial decisions, but that's on brand with this saga.
4908) The Last of Us Part 2 is a masterpiece.,It is the kind of game that is a must-play if you own a Ps4. Graphics are amazing and realistic, gameplay mechanics have been updated and upgraded to deliver a truly addictive game experience.,The story is dramatic and heart felted, people were actually not ready for it. And the game does a fine job using that. You will feel a wide variety of emotions during the game, from hate, love, hope, despair, sadness and even frustration. But it's this emotional rollercoaster that makes the storytelling stand out. Maybe you won’t feel so good bu playing a certain character in the game and the things the forces you to do, but don’t lose the point. It is not about you, it is about the world this characters inhabit and their relationships.
4909) Thanks Naughty Dog. I really love this game.,Graphics, gameplay, atmosphere, excellent storytelling. Play it as soon as possible!
4910) I believe the story is just as great as in the first one. I don't buy into the whole Naughty Dog pushing a political agenda. I don't believe they mislead anyone with the game trailers. The character development with both playable characters were great. I hope to be able to see them more in upcoming installments. Great job Naughty Dog. Excellent game.
4911) Recommend it! One of the absolute best game this year. This game truly is something different
4912) I cannot understand the hate for this fantastic game.,From the first second I loved playing it. The graphics are **** awesome. The Characters look like real people.,Yeah, it sucks that Joel had to die, but to me it didn't come as a surprise. From the first trailer I thought he would be dead. So, it was a story of revenge and, who is the bad guy in this? Abby for killing him? Or Joel for killing her dad an saving Ellie, but to what price? Ellie and Thommy both lost their wives, and for what? Revenge, But Joel is still dead. And Jesse. And so many more people. So, naughty dog told us a story about what violence can do. And in the End Ellie is all alone, the thing she most feared....,I pray for a third game, the story is not over, abd I pray for our Ellie to get her girl and son back.,Thx Naughty dog for the best story I have ever played.
4913) The best game ever,10/10 gameplay,10/10 story,100%Joel,100% Ellie,I love the first chapter
4914) This game was a masterpiece. The gameplay, graphics and the story were all great
4915) One of the best games I ever played! All ready a big fan of the first one.,Loved the story, the switch in the story line and the ability to learn and grown in the end.,My heart was racing throughout the game.
4916) One of the best games. Great story, great graphic, new enemies, new characters. I’ve got everything what I want. Thx Naughty dog.
4917) I loved it. Story wise it's not as powerful as the first.. But what sequel is? I wouldn't suspect a part two to be better. But it's still amazing!
4918) If you genuinly give this game a 7 or lower, you are not getting the story. God this game was good. The story was amazingly writen and the way it was told is incredibly good. Yes, it’s controversial that Joel died, but what did you want Naughty Dog to do? Create a second TLOU part 1? Then you would only get the same as the Fast & Furious movies. The first one was extremely good. Godlike. You can’t top that with a similar story. You need to explore a different story, a different side, a different goal. This game has done that magnificently. 10 out of 10, game of the year for me. Great gameplay and a magnificant story. What a charm to play. I cannot (!!) wait for Part 3. Lets go! Make it already!
4919) This game is different. Excellent narrative and story line, I enjoyed every minute of it and it's complex story. Totally recommended
4920) Loved the game, felt like a movie, didn’t feel right killing Joel, but maybe it was the best for the game to keep a story, also loved the fact that might be a part 3
4921) This game has done something that no other game or even movie has made me felt. It was very emotional, I felt anger, sadness, empathy, love, and last but not least hope. I for one actually finished the game and even NG+ and tbh my second play through was even better than the first. I'm glad we got the story that we did because if it was just Joel and Ellie travelling across the country again there would be no depth.
4922) Cmon, what's wrong with you all - you may not like the events story consists of but that doesn't mean it's horrible in itself. It gave 10x much emotions than all the games for the previous couple of years. Ignore the gorgeous graphics etc, it's the story that drives here. Forget 5/5 to God of War, it's a child fairytale compared to this. Personally I wouldn't prefer the same roadtrip as the first TLOU, it just wouldn't have triggerred the same fellings again. And I glad we had that Cal level with the final fight, it still feels you defeated Abby and revenged Joel, no need to kill her as it's Ellie who decided not to. Try to play part 1 and you'll notice gameplay evolutionized a lot (crafting in the 1st was better for me though). Playing Abby punching Ellie feels disgusting, but I suppose that's what Druckmann wanted us to feel, it simply tightens our connection to the characters (well, one of them). For me the game overshadowed even TW3 I love so much. Let's be honest, none of the recent titles caused so much of emotions. A true masterpiece, can't stop thinking of it, but hoping for a more sunny part 3 :)
4923) Fantastic, emotional, at times difficult story, with great, relatable character growth, and great voice acting. Amazing level design, and some of the best visuals available this generation of consoles. Gameplay has been improved from the original game, and while it's nothing groundbreaking in the genre, it's still very solid and enjoyable. Definitely one of the top games of 2020, and this generation in general.
4924) Great gameplay, amazing graphics and a compelling story for people that go into the game open minded. 10/10 for me
4925) Game of the year! When i play this game i crying, laughing and thinking. Amazing, emotional journey.   Can't wait part III
4926) This game treats their characters like real people. Messy, complicated and beautifully human. It's different than it's predecessor in that displays a wider range of human emotion and thought. It doesn't take a big brain or high intellect to understand the characters motivations. Just empathy.
4927) Reading a lot of reviews that say "story makes no sense" "disregards everything set up in the first game" and I'm sat here wondering what game they played? Part 1 was all about getting Ellie from A to B and set up that relationship, and had a pretty conclusive ending. Part 2 wasn't just going to be another Joel and Ellie road trip. It had to evolve and evolve it did. You hate Abby? Well that's the point! they needed to do something to take you through these horrendous emotions and they did it really well. In fact i'm happy its so divded as it just proves they did it right, its gritty, realistic,  and painful. Some people will love it, some people will say "Wah I dOn'T LiKE New WanT Mor jOEL & eLLIE aDVENTURES.",Joel is in the game a lot, and i got more character development from him in part 2 than the entirety of part 1.,there's always going to be new characters to get used to, and these new characters were received well.... right up until "the incident".,i have to say ignore the 0 reviews, as if they start with "the story doesn't make any sense" then its probably because they never played it and just watched it online.
4928) To all the cry babies review bombing this game....just stick with superhero stories, those are more suited to your intellectual capacity.
4929) I am a huge Last of Us fan and I thoroughly enjoyed this game! The graphics, environments and game play are everything I wanted from this game. The fighting can be crazy fun and intense at times. There are tons of cut scenes, but necessary to tell the complex story. Some call it cliche, I call it realistic. No one can predict another person's reaction and the characters in the Last of Us have been through a lot. The end of this game was emotional for me and I believe the story drove my emotions to be more intense. I love this game and can't wait for the next one!
4930) Pure Genius! Another masterpiece of gaming, why should it have to follow a nice comfortable curve from the equally brilliant first game. Rarely can a game evoke such emotion and have such incredible environments and gameplay, the visuals and sound deserve massive praise, in fact this game should win every award available
4931) It's an amazing story that is all about perspective and the consequences of revenge. For all the low reviews, all I can say is go play uncharted if you want a game full of fluff.
4932) One of the best games I've played in a while, and definitely my favorite narrative-driven game. Kept thinking about the characters for days after finishing it.
4933) Video games are really good at delivering catharsis through violence. The first game did that when you were forced to slaughter all those people to save a character you cared about. Bioshock Infinite did something similar when you had to save Elizabeth. Or God of War with Atreus. But for the first time that I've seen, The Last of Us Part II tried to emit a DIFFERENT emotion through violence. You as the player were not in line with the motivations of your characters. Naughty Dog created a disconnect between player and character that heightened a feeling of discomfort when having to commit violent acts. I've never seen that narrative technique done through a video game. As a result, certain violent scenes WERE not cathartic. They felt wrong. Beating up Abby at the end felt wrong. Beating up Ellie as Abby felt wrong. Killing Owen and Mel felt wrong etc... the developers purposefully robbed us of catharsis in order to effectively deliver its thematic message about the futility of revenge, hatred, division etc... it was a NEW usage of the narrative toolset of the medium that I really have to applaud and commend. Yes, the game has problems (i think it bit off more than it could chew, and left certain characters underdeveloped and archetypical) and perhaps the first game was more cohesive and better paced... but the majority of the criticism seems to come from an unfortunate misreading of the plot or a lack of appreciation for darker themes. I'm overall very happy with this sequel. I'd more honestly give it a 9/10 but I think it's necessary to offset some of the troll reviews here.
4934) yo it’s really good. a rating of 5 is a travesty for a game of this caliber, even if you don’t agree with the story.
4935) I can't tell you what to feel, and you shouldn't let other people tell you either. This is a game you need to play with an open mind, especially if you played the first one. I'm here to tell you to form your own opinion and thoughts without listening to the heard. I'm not here to form your opinion, but one thing is for sure - it's worth the playthrough.,,As expected the visuals are stunning all the way. With 7 years on the last game, this one has even improved visually, which is saying alot.,,The characters seem well thought out and developed - in world like this, perfect is a word you would never use to describe any person in the game. It's easy to hate a character you don't care about, even if they survive and live the same way as the character you like. It's a complicated story and needs critical thinking to be understood for what it is, no matter the emotion you might feel.,,The gameplay is intense and dark, but it has some really nice moments. Remember Joel saying along these lines in the 1st game: "no matter what, you always find something worth fighting for". Although not uncommon in these types of games, this is something you really see in this game. Emotions run high and the stress levels stay peaking. Never a dull moment.,,The game also feels like its tweaked perfectly from the first one. Enemies are more personalized and,advanced. It sort of feels like Naughty Dog fullfilled wishes I didn't know I had in that sense. Some aspects feel more realistic and you feel more agaile as you're playing. This game is also very accessible, which is awesome! Also, hats off to Naughty Dog for showing gay characters!,,Playing this game was a wonderful rollercoaster of a journey. The thoughts I have collected over the past 7 years about what the game might be didn't matter once I started. I would never be mad at them for not making what I had hoped or made up in my head, because it is a good game. At the end of the day, you have to see it for what it is, not what you want it to be.,,I would recommend altering your mindset if your going in with certain expectations, people need to realize they're not the ones making the game. If you don't like the story, that is your opinion. But please, for the creators and yourselves - give the game a fair chance. It's not **** You might not like it, but that doesn't give you the right to tell people not to buy it or say it garbage. Your opinion is simply yours, and should not ruin for others. No one is forcing you to like it, don't let people make you hate it.
4936) This has set a new benchmark in storytelling for games. It deviates from a traditional narrative structure, subverts your expectations. Finally, it breaks your heart, I've never been on a more ambiguous and conflicted journey in a game, it's a credit to the medium and I think this subversion of a traditional narrative ark is what makes it so haunting and difficult for people to digest.
4937) Technical masterpiece and excellent gameplay. Storywise i was mixed at the end of the Game but with Time  i find the Story brillant.
4938) This game is an absolute masterpiece. The story is great and the graphics are amazing. The way the game portrays emotions and relations is on another level. It leaves you feeling real anxiety, and this is not a bad thing. The gameplay was true to the last of us 1, but with some new touches. If you liked the first game you will probably love part 2. It's an epic dive into an unforgiving apocalypse!!,And last but not least... One Love to HBTQ ❤
4939) the best game the best game the best game the best game the best game the best game
4940) This game left me in tears. The story is amazing, character development is extremely well done and the lesson to learn here through beloved characters, and highly hated ones, is just heartbreaking.,The story sucks you in and you need to let yourself be guided by it. You will have awesome actions  parts as well as terrific scenarios you will be forced to play, let alone new monsters you will hate. But if you expect it to be like RE3 or CoD, don't.
4941) I don’t care what anyone says I loved this game. I was worried because I know nothing could compare to the first but I think the second was just as good. I think it was actually a bit harder than the first which made it a bit gunner to play in my opinion.I liked that all the stuff I wasn’t able to do in the first game that bugged me was fixed in the second. I really loved the story and how they explored the ethics within the whole situation through each characters storyline. Pretty depressing but I was happy with it.
4942) This game is an absolute masterpiece and one of the best games I have ever played. I've just finished it and I am in awe of what it must have taken to make this game. The visuals are stunning, the level design is detailed and interesting. The story is excellent and the pacing is perfect. If you liked the first game you will love this one either more.,,It is beyond insane to me that there are so many negative user reviews. All I can assume is that they are all from angry young men who's egos are butthurt by a story focusing on 2 strong women and their emotional rollercoasters.
4943) This game is a Masterpiece, and it gets there not by being a traditional narrative, not by giving the player what they want. It gets there by being bold, and having something to say. Those who aren't willing to feel a truly nuanced empathy for characters who have wronged them, to relinquish the self are going to misattribute this game as somehow lesser. This 25 hour long epic is not about "revenge" it's about Trauma and how our selfish notions of revenge, retribution, and hatred only feed into our collective trauma as well as the personal.,,This story isn't lazy, or bad, it's actively eschewing the lazy tropes and bad writing that's been done over and over. The plot is framed as a revenge story but the story is not, and I guarantee that if you're willing to step beside yourself and feel raw, intense feelings of regret, loss, and a sense of conflict so deep it forces you to put the controller down for a few hours, you're going to have a story that treats you like an adult willing to feel complex emotions, and hold conflicting ideas.,,If you however want to be reminded of how fun things were before games had something to say, or if you want a pleasant time playing through a game that holds your hand or intends to leave you in awe, this isn't the game for you. It's not interested in escapism, it's not interested in clear story telling tropes and cliches, it's not interested in good vs evil, it's interested in Human suffering, how we all feel it, how we perpetuate it, and how the momentary releases we seek out to "end" our suffering only deepens it in ourselves and others.
4944) Genre defining. Thanks Naughty dog. Recommended. Gamer of 30 years. One of the best.
4945) I was very impressed ! (SPOILERS),,+ the story was compex,(which is why many kids who prefer peace, joy and pancakes are disliking this game),+ it rightfully didn't just let Joel get away with **** up the whole world by not letting Ellie decide for herself,+ the initial enemies were humanized, the initial people you loved at first were shown realistically, they were just as bad/good as some of the others,+ I appreciate the LGBT representation,,- I might be wrong but I can't imagine how humans like Abby or Ellie can be so human and brutal at the same time (is that possible?),- how could they not reflect themselves a lot more? why did Ellie feel bad for killing a pregnant woman but was almost harming Lev just for the sake of her **** revenge
4946) I like to play this game. I end it yesterday. For first I don't now why that much guys giving that low rating because the history is okay gameplay is beautiful. I know everyone want to see more Joel but this history is about revenge.
4947) Graphics amazing! Gameplay incredible! Story, unexpected. A lot of people criticize the story, but this is because they expect the happiness of the characters. I think it's a great story because it shows you the cruelty of this apocalyptic world and includes very sad moments that you never will find on other games. So, a deep and emotional story that will make you think. 100% recommended!
4948) It's hard to shake the funk this game leaves one in. I feel lost, like I need to constantly talk about my experience. I've spent the last day reading all sorts of opinions on the game in an attempt to still my longing for the world I've had to depart. The ramblings of people who love it, people who hate it.,,As much as the debate can be infuriating at times, it lifts my spirits to see a video game dare to be so divisive, to take these kinds of risks. So often AAA games feel safe, almost pandering in their simplicity. Rarely can they match the artistic integrity of cinema and literature. I feel here, as in the first game, we are seeing the envelope being pushed. It's thrilling.,,The Last of Us Part II didn't feel perfect all the way through, I'll gladly admit it. I didn't always agree with the pacing or the story choices. It could easily have been shorter. Tighter.,,But I was so invested, as if taken by some kind of fever. Sleep became a secondary function, necessary only to gather energy for the next gaming session. The gameplay loop; explore, gather, fight, plot... for me it just clicked. Some of my favourite moments were just gathering alcohol and rags.,,A technical marvel in every single department, I am thrilled and delighted to see how far video games have evolved in my lifetime, from DOS to cinematic wonders. The acting and writing of such a calibre that I had a constant lump in my throat. It's the kind of cultural experience that doesn't come around every day. Created with such purpose and intent, one can feel the will of the creator in the finished work.,,It's okay to hate it. Art that doesn't divide can hardly be called just that.,,I hope you give The Last of Us part II a chance.
4949) I just wanna say this game it's awesome The mechanics the gameplay and the story.,Thanks naughty dog for make one of the best game I will ever played
4950) I've never felt the way this game made me feel. Shame, guilt, hatred. To get me to empathise with someone I utterly despised at the beginning of the game is an unbelievable feat and I thought the way it dealt with grief and the complexity of human interaction was fantastic.
4951) I know people is pissed about joel's death but let be honest the game is a masterpiece the story about ellie and abby is very good how they faced each other in the moment and i like that the gameplay is great the characters are very good the only bad thing about the game is how they killed  joel
4952) The game is tough. But awesome. You will think about it after it ends. That makes a great game.
4953) The game deserves for 7 years’ waiting time. There is no problem for the story, I deduct 2 points for the confusion of continuous storytelling and difficulty to grow empathy towards the the second main character. Deeply appreciate for making the game. I have to change my score to 10 to counterpart those morons who gave a ridiculous 0. Damn you sexists and homophobics.
4954) Stop bullying this game its not bad because of ending.This game is a masterpiece.
4955) This game is a straight up masterpiece, one that you're playing to see an amazing, gut wrenching story. This will shake you to your core. Don't listen to the people who are making this a political issue, it's amazing.
4956) This game is amazing, story is great! If you don’t understand the purpose of this game you shouldn’t rate it 0!
4957) Don't listen to the people! This game is 10 out of 10! I played this game, just finished it. Thank you, Naughty Dog! This game is amazing! Thanks from Russia.
4958) A realistic view of grief and a game that manages to make you feel as hurt, anxious and angry as the protagonist. The ending was fine after all the anger, depression, and negation ellie goes through, she finally accepts that joel is gone and is able to let abby go. The ending means that ellie went from being a sociopath on a killing spree to a sane healthy person able to forgive. Thats why ay the main menú in NEW game plus the boat is out of the water but into a beach with a rising sun.,On the other hand the gameplay is great creative and challenging at the hardest difficulty.,And last but not least the visuals and audio are simple amazing.,If u are a mature and intelligent human being y fully recommend this game.
4959) The main thing i wanted to say about this story is based on what i felt during the playthrough from beginning to the end. I did not see any spoilers because it would be shame to do so as a true fan of TLOU part 1 which will stay in my heart forever. Everything we were supposed to feel as a player in first game was concentrated about love - story was told in a way to guide us into fall in love to each of the characters we were meant to play. In second one it was done the same way but instead of love we were meant to feel hate. Hate to each one of main characters we played and saw in part 2. Because i hated every character through playthrough, starting from soft and completely different Joel then we used to know going to Abby which motivations were justified (which i really hated that it was justified for her to kill him) ending on Ellie which decisions led her to lose everything she loved and her sweet pugnacious side of her character which we all loved in part 1. It was devastating to see how those characters evolved because of brutal Joel's death. What i loved about this game is exactly the same thing i loved about part 1. Emotions, tones of them which i felt when i played it from beginning to the end. Joel's death, swarm attack of infected on Abby in early first part of the game, that fear those characters felt, i felt it too along with excitement. Game was exhausting to play as her later in the game, hunting for Ellie as Abby made me feel inside really strong rejection. And the ending... i stopped there for a moment after i saw it and asked myself, what would i do in both places of Abby and Ellie if i was put in the same situation as they were. Would i kill Abby, would i let her go? Would i kill Joel for what he done to me, would i let him live? When i ended the game i felt completely drained and tired same as sad. Firstly i was angry, really angry and sad about what happened, how the story was told... but when dust fell down on the floor and some time has passed i realized that part 2 made me feel impressive amount of emotions same as part 1 but in completely different way. I felt anger, i felt hate, i felt sadness, i wanted to get revenge for what happened, i wanted to jump on screen and wipe them all out in one second in much worse way then Joel died, i wanted to break something, i wanted to rip something apart. But i couldn't, instead of it i was forced to play as Abby, learn her motives, i was forced to even put a smile or two while i played her and then right after one smile my memories went back to the moment of who she is for me and then i felt disgusted. Was it bad that i felt it? No. It was excellent to be fully engaged emotionally in the story because it is unique in games industry to feel such engagement in play. This is why i gave it 10/10 experience. Im just the guy that was able to look at whole picture after some time has passed. I am definitely going to play this again no matter of it's imperfections. Joel's death is not a reason to call it a poor story, it's just something that many people can't and will never accept because they wanted more of the story that was concentrated about love between him and Ellie. They get something else, something which for many may stay as unacceptable and bad storytelling. I disagree with that opinion it was as good experience as first game but in different way
4960) I finished the game last night and went to sleep crying... It feels like I lost someone very close to me! I get why some people may dislike the game. Seeing someone you've learnt to love and care about dying like that, then playing as the killer and seeing the other side can be tough. But for me this has brought so much depth to the story! Naughty Dog has shown the true meaning of the sentence "every villain is a hero of their own story", and I think it was brilliant and very brave. I'm heartbroken, and I wish things were different for Ellie and Joel, but the world can be really cruel, and we have to understand that. The last flashback hit me pretty hard! At that very moment you realise Ellie hated herself for not forgiving Joel in life, and seeking revenge so blindly was a way of suppressing the feeling, because dealing with it would hurt so badly. The message is pretty clear here!,As I said, I get why people may dislike the way things happened, but I can't understand all the hate! The game has so much to offer whether you like the story or not. You can argue whether it deserves or not a 10/10, but It definitely does not deserve a 0/10.
4961) I will find haters and kill last one of them. If you hate the story( in my opinion 10/10) everything else is 10/10. So 1/10 notes are just jokes
4962) The games give you so many twist and turns in emotion. Really immersive. Those who hate on it simply cannot accept the fact that characters change, especially after four years (I mean, Joel changed after ONE year hanging out with Ellie...),The plot is not for everyone, but I have never felt so much for a video game... I was left emotionally drained. Let alone the graphics and gameplay was just simply amazing- The game play was as good as or even better than the first one (love prone and explosive arrows!) it is an absolute masterpiece for me.,You have to experience the game yourself. Watching someone else play is not enough, not in this game.
4963) Análise em Português-BR:,Não sou crítico nem nada, então vou ser bem direto na minha análise. The Last of Us Parte 2 é um dos melhores jogos que eu joguei nos últimos tempos, o nível de detalhes nas animações, expressões faciais, gráficos e na história é impressionante! Único jogo que se aproxima/iguala ao nível dele é Red Dead 2, capricharam demais aqui. A quantidade de detalhe as vezes beira a perfeição, as expressões faciais e animações merecem um destaque aqui, eu não acreditava quando via algumas coisas acontecendo. Sobre a história eu não vou comentar muito pra não dar spoilers, mas uma coisa que pra mim não faz sentido são essas críticas sem noção que estão fazendo, falando que o jogo é ruim por causa de um detalhe na história que não agradou, parece até piada. The Last of Us Parte 2 tem uma história super pesada envolvendo vingança, é muito mais pesada que o primeiro e passa longe de ser uma história ruim, na verdade ela é ótima e os personagens também são. A história dele não foi feita para agradar, foi feita pra ser boa e pra mexer com o jogador. Você vai sentir angustia, raiva, medo e mais um monte de emoções ao mesmo tempo, é inexplicável o que eles conseguiram fazer eu sentir enquanto jogava. Se você gosta de histórias felizes e fica irritadinho quando acontece "tragédias" em histórias, então passe longe desse jogo, porque como eu disse ele não foi feito para agradar e sim mexer com você.,,Analysis in English:,I'm not critical or anything, so I'll be very straightforward in my analysis. The Last of Us Part 2 is one of the best games I've played in recent times, the level of detail in the animations, facial expressions, graphics and history is impressive! The only game that comes close to / equals his level is Red Dead 2, they’ve worked really well here. The amount of detail sometimes borders on perfection, facial expressions and animations deserve to be highlighted here, I didn't believe it when I saw some things happening. About the story I will not comment much to not give spoilers, but one thing that does not make sense to me is the clueless criticism they are making, saying that the game is bad because of a detail in the story that did not please, it seems joke. The Last of Us Part 2 has a super heavy story involving revenge, it is much heavier than the first and is far from being a bad story, in fact it is great and the characters are also. His story was not made to please, it was made to be good and to mess with the player. You will feel anguish, anger, fear and a lot of emotions at the same time, it is inexplicable what they managed to make me feel while playing. If you like happy stories and get irritated when "tragedies" happen in stories, then stay away from this game, because as I said it was not meant to please but to mess with you.
4964) NO SPOILERS,Finished the game several days ago with a 40 hour playthrough on the hardest difficulty. Did I like every twist, turn and decision that the story took? No, I did not. But I have not stopped thinking about the game since I completed it. The feelings I've felt and are still feeling is something completely unique that I've never felt in any other medium before. This game will challange your emotions and if you're not ready for that sort of experience then this game is not for you. This isn't a Marvel movie or a Uncharted game. This is a game about imperfect human beings struggling to survive and handle love and loss. I was unsure at first but I'm completely sure now. TLoU2 is in my opinion a 10/10 game. The story is incredibly well written and challenging to the player, the graphics are fantastic, environments are stunning, the sound and music is amazing and the gameplay makes every single encounter intense. This game is without a doubt a experience I won't soon forget.
4965) Would have scored it a 9, but I have to bump it up to a 10 because of these whiny people scoring it a 0. 50% of these people probably didn't even reach the credits.
4966) Amazing game. Naughty Dog has now set another bar in games. It's one of The best game of this generation!
4967) This game take the courage that many of writters and companies dont  have, Naughty Dog and Niel Druckman have the wonderful opportunity to give us a full history, give us the oportunity to watch the events of one history to make our own thinking in who is the hero or who is the villain, or if there are these.,Its a Must Play !,P.S.: Dont hate one game just because dont tell a history that you make in your own mind.
4968) This game is without a doubt an absolute masterpiece and in my opinion, is better than the first. This is coming from someone that adored the first game, played it 16 times, on all difficulties, bought statues, merch, etc.,This story is not simply about revenge, in the same way the original game was not simply a story about finding a cure.,The first game challenges you in its last moments to ask yourself who is good and who is bad, so does this game, and reinforces that in this dark, cruel world they live in, no life is treated as more special than another.,This game is bold, beautiful, and presents conflicts like never experienced before. If you can only look at this game through a shallow lens, you will hate it, but if you allow yourself to become immersed, you will find yourself experiencing a journey you would have never expected to be taken on.,Easy 10/10.
4969) I may have given this game a 9, but since there's a lot of disney fankids rating this mature rated storytelling game... I´m giving TLOU II a 10. Have i made myself clear? Hope i did
4970) Never thought a game could be so deep and brutal. Truly a stunning story that makes you question all your actions in a world where there are no heroes or villains. Amazing characters and amazing world that are not just black and white. I have so many things to say but yeah it's hard to put everything into words; I do not think we have ever had such a powerful, deep videogame in the history of games, im still in total shock.
4971) This game is absolutely amazing to play. I was hooked from beginning to end. It is devastating when Joel dies in the beginning, and I actually cried watching that scene, but the way it is handled throughout the game was done very well. I loved all the flashbacks to really delve into the characters more deeply.  This game creates a range of emotions from being sad at all the unnecessary deaths, angry, proud of watching Ellie grow and learn, empathy for not just Ellie but also for Abby, and despair at the world both of these characters endure. The ending is perfectly done, and had it happened any other way in the final fight I may have lost all respect for Ellie as a character. I just wish I knew what was in store for her and for Abby next! So many questions left unanswered!
4972) Beautiful graphics, hard hitting story showing Ellie’s ultimate downfall as she’s sucked into her obsession with revenge. The game forces you to see the perspective of every faction in the game and makes you seriously question who is the “good guy” after all. Humans are multifaceted and this game shows that fantastically. As a queer, non-cis person It was also nice to see representation for both sexuality and gender that wasn’t just the “norm” and in my opinion was done very respectfully. Already on a second play through. Absolutely loved it.
4973) As with all games I only review once I’ve completed and I’ve had time to reflect on the experience.  I finished TLOU2 last night after 30 hours and WOW Naughty Dog, what an achievement.,,On the gameplay front, as you’d expect it’s quite similar to the original game.  You move from area to area avoiding or getting into conflict with the infected or human enemies.  It’s down to you how you wish to proceed, stealth or guns blazing.  But stealth is usually the preferred option to at least thin the number of enemies before you open fire.  Resources are scarce so it’s not like you ever have lots of ammo to go all Rambo like.  However, the gameplay mechanics are without doubt a step up from the original.  Everything feels much more dynamic.  Everything flows really well.  It might sound strange to say but when you are running in this game you really feel like you are running for your life.  Run, crawl under a desk, take cover behind a concrete pillar, flank your enemy, and dispatch!  It’s all very seamless and hangs together beautifully.  But that is not as easy as it sounds, as the human enemy AI is quite clever.  They WILL flank you if you stay in one place for more than 30 seconds or so.  The attention to detail is honestly amazing, probably the best I’ve ever seen.  You can really see the care and effort that has gone into this game.  Shoot someone in the head and they will go down as you’d expect and the blood spatter pattern would be as you’d expect.,,Graphically there is not much to say here other than as you’d expect from a Naughty Dog game it’s up there with the very best, quite possibly the very best.  It’s just a beautiful game.  The sound design is phenomenal too.  Guns sound and feel deadly when fired, and the in game music is top class.  When graphics and sound this good are combined what you end up with is some of the best atmosphere setting in a game ever.  One of my personal favourite sections was playing through the pitch black hospital at ‘ground zero’, I felt terrified the whole time.  It was on par with how well the Resident Evil 2 remake sets the atmosphere.  Bear in mind TLOU2 is not actually a survival horror game, yet it can compete with dedicated survival horror games due to its amazing ability to set atmosphere.,,Contrary to many (incorrect) beliefs, the game is NOT pushing an agenda.  It’s simply a story about revenge and the lengths we as humans are willing to go to get it. It’s a story about flipping perspectives and giving the player the opportunity to see both sides of the coin.  In doing that you as the player actually bond with characters on both sides of the argument.  And this is why it is so clever – because you bond with both Ellie and Abby, you become totally conflicted about the actions both of them take for each of their causes.  The story is in my opinion brilliant.  It could have been another jaunt through the world of the infected with Ellie and Joel but Naughty Dog made some bold decisions and chose to do something completely different – and it paid off.  In parts it’s truly shocking, but I like that it shocked me.  I had my hand over my mouth on many occasions – I can’t remember a game that made me react like that before.,,I really only had ONE issue with the game, and that is sometimes the pace can be slow somewhat due to the large areas you spend time looting (although this isn’t actually forced and entirely down to you if you want to do it or not).  However, the game would suck me back in again quickly with a defining story moment.,,I can’t wait to fire up New Game+ on Hard+ mode just to experience this masterpiece again, but I’m going to put it down for now and give myself time to recover from being emotionally taxed for 30 hours.  There wasn’t a single night I didn’t play this game since its release on 28th June.  I’m truly exhausted.,,I’ll end by saying this is one of the best video games ever made.  If you are at all interested in video games this is a must play, no doubt.  Masterpiece,,Metacritic - please do something about review bombing :-)
4974) I really dont think ill ever play any game like that, simply a masterpiece.,just waiting for the multiplayer.
4975) It saddens me that some gamers might be swayed by the unprecedented trolling that has taken place here. Yes, I am sure there are SOME actual, thoughtful negative reviews, but 99.9% of the 50,000 that are currently here have absolutely not played or purchased the game.,,I'm a mature gamer and took a HUGE hiatus from gaming after the masterpiece that was 'The Ocarina of Time'. 'The Last of Us' and the 'Uncharted' series were my gateway back to gaming and 'The Last of Us II' has now cemented itself as what I would consider the crowning achievement for what is possible with the art form that is game design. This game deserves a place on the mantel amongst all that we consider holy within the entertainment industry. That includes the best of modern literature, cinema, television, music...the amount of sheer ingenuity, creativity, obsessive attention to detail and love that went into the production of this game I can only begin to imagine. What is even harder to imagine is how anything like this could ever be accomplished again. I felt the same ache I did last night when I completed my first run-through of 'The Last of Us II' that I did when I finished the pioneering achievement that was 'The Ocarina of Time'. This art form deserves to be lauded and regarded at the same level as the rest of the entertainment media we consume, specifically because of games like these. That said, there truly has never been a game with the depth of storytelling, character development, sound design, gameplay, music performance and composition, than what has been achieved here with 'The Last of Us II'. Truly.,,If you were moved by anything that Naughty Dog has accomplished in the past, especially the characters they've brought to life through 'The Last of Us', don't hesitate to buy and play this game. Regardless of whether you agree with the decisions they've made with the introductions, fates and farewells of their beloved characters or particular plot elements, don't let ideology or politics prevent you from experiencing this masterpiece. It is just that.,,If it helps those who are still on the fence here is a list of games not yet mentioned that I have also thoroughly enjoyed in no particular order:,,- Bloodborne,- God of War (reboot),- Horizon Zero Dawn,- Red Dead Redemption (I and II),- Inside,- NieR: Automata,- Breath of the Wild,- Nioh,- Marvel's Spiderman,- Bioshock (The Collection),- Mass Effect (1-3),- Dead Space (1 and 2),- Destiny (1 and 2),- Bayonetta (1 and 2)
4976) Stellar gameplay, intense horror, brutal action, incredible characters, and a powerful story make The Last of Us Part 2 a masterpiece.,,The people who don't like the game wanted a male power-fantasy, but what TLOU2 offers instead is a gut-wrenching story that asks you to actually grow and deal with your emotions. I have never played a video game that challenged the player like this game does. Not in terms of beating bosses or surviving enemies, but in that you actually have to evolve as a person and empathize with different perspectives. An absolutely fantastic way to spend 24 hours of gameplay. My sister was captivated start to finish watching me play. This game has only one flaw, and that's that one sex scene. Otherwise? It's the very best narrative game ever created.
4977) Harrowing and bleak, yet punctuated with undeniable beauty throughout. Another masterpiece from Naughty Dog.
4978) Here's to curve all the people who rated the game without playing it at all or all the way through. As someone who played it I will say be ready for an intense experience with alot of violence that makes you question if there is too much it in the game. Best game I've played in the last 5 years easy!
4979) Id probably give this game an 8 or a 9 usually, but given people's kneejerk reaction to it i figured this was a more useful score.
4980) Unfortunately,this game make you sad , but there is a lot of amazing things in game (for example game play ).,this game is the best to telling story , but the story is depressed.,i think The last of us part 2 force you to think .  how ever The last of us part 2 is  perfect,thanks neil druckmann .thanks naughty dog
4981) Overall the game is truly a masterpiece. The story is challenging and superb in every possible way. The soundtrack is stunning. The graphic is top-notched. The gameplay feels realistic and super smooth.
4982) Masterpiece. Jaw-dropping visuals, soundtracks, audio, acting and story. 10/10. Stop hating if you don’t understand the story.
4983) This is what I expected, I totally loved it, I’m wondering if there’s going to be a multiplayer
4984) The game asks you to have empathy and try to understand both sides of a conflict, it's compelling and well written. I enjoyed my time with the game.
4985) Never before a game had this level of story telling, character developing and emotional engagement. It's ironical, but not surprising, that a game about how hate can change and destroy you and everyone around is being... hated so much.,,Maybe someday, in the future, people that can't see why this game is great, that missed the point and the message, will play it without the burden of their own hateful worldview and ... get it. It's a personal journey, most will not get there, but I like to believe that eventually we all do.,,Congratulations, Naughty Dog, not only on making such a great game, but also by having the courage of doing it in times like these. That's the kind of courage that help people that are lost in the dark to look for the light. :)
4986) This game is a real masterpiece of interactive arts. Those who give it 0 points simply follow the herd instinct. The game has an exciting story, gameplay, atmosphere, characters(especially Abby), and so on
4987) I can't believe that this world is full of haters. Whoever is complaining about the game story should simply watch the Disney movies instead with happy endings.,,I am into 10 Hrs of gameplay and can form my opinion that this is one of the best games we got this generation.,,Shame on haters
4988) I think its a masterpiece. Of course Not everyone Loved the Story. But its a masterpiece at all!
4989) This game has and forever will divide players. Personally, this game is a masterpiece that has elicited certain emotions that no other form of media has before. Whether you are talking about its violent yet beautifully animated gameplay to its stunning graphical fidelity and impeccable audio design, there is no argument that Naughty Dog is on another level in terms of technical artistry.
4990) As someone who played Part I more than 100 times my expectations for The Last of Us Part II were really high. Especially after all these years of waiting. After playing through Part II for the third time, I'm happy to say that my expectations were even exceeded in a lot of ways. But of course there are some aspects that could have been improved,,PRO,+ Graphics: Keep in mind that this game is running on really old hardware (even on the PRO). And it simply looks amazing. Kudos to Naughty Dog for this level of quality. I can not wait to see this game on PS5.,+ Animation: I have never played a game with such high-quality animations. This also has a huge impact in terms of gameplay,+ Gameplay: I already liked the Gameplay Naughty Dog delivered in Part I. Of course Naughty Dog does not reinvent the wheel in this category ("simply" stealth, shooting, dodging etc.). But the gameplay simply feels absolute right. And compared to Part I it is a really perfect evolution that stays true to the original game. And the animation does the rest. They way you feel the character is simply amazing. Hitting stuff, getting hit, dodging etc. is more than impressive.,+ Atmosphere: In Part I I always loved the atmosphere. You had moments where everything was quite and beautiful. 5 seconds later infected would swarm you and you had to fight for your life. And Part II even delivered in this category. Infected (especially Clickers) sound creepy as hell Same goes for the whistling of the Seraphites.,+ Audio: I would not call me an audiophile. But audio quality is always important to me. I am currently running a 7.2.6 setup. Unfortunately the game does not have support for stuff like Atmos or DTS:X. Which is why I am using Auro3D to upmix the 7.1 LPCM Signal. And the game simply sounds fantastic. Even without the Auromatic. This is another important factor why the atmosphere in this game is so good.,+  Story: A lot of people criticize the story for "ruining the characters" and "creating plot holes". I can not agree with that. It simply is not true, but I do not want to spoil the story for you. To understand the story of Part II you really need to understand what is happening in Part I. Then you have think about what is happening in Part II and why it is happening. This is really important. Otherwise you won't be able to understand the whole story. To quote David from Part I: "Everything happens for a reason". The game really had a lot of moments where the controller felt so heavy in my hands. One thing I have to add: Joel also followed Henry and Sam in Part I after they invited Joel and Ellie to follow them.,+ Accessibility: Luckily I do not need to use these features. But I know people who need them. And Naughty Dog did a really awesome job with these settings.,+ Soundtrack: Gustavo Santaolalla created another absolut fantastic soundtrack for this game. Especially these: Unbroken, Collateral, Beyond Desolation are fantastic. But: Part I had a few more memorable soundtracks.,+ AI Improvements: This was really important to me. The AI in Part I really was not that smart. With Part II Naughty Dog improved this a lot. This goes for your enemies as well as for your ally's.,+ Performance of the actors. I guess this is self-explanatory,,Not great, not terrible:,o Seattle feels pretty monotonous from time to time. Not because everything looks the same. But in Part I you had more, completely different areas. Luckily we got a bit more variety during the last few hours.,o Too much film grain. I understand why film grain is there. But I never like it. Usually games have a slider to turn film grain down or even off. Part II does not have such an option. The only way to get rid of the film grain is during photo mode. And Part II looks so much better without it.,o You are not able to disable the listening mode. In part I it worked,o No way to re-watch cut-scenes in the menu.,,Con:,- You still can not crouch-sprint. I could swear I have seen this in Part II promo material. But maybe I am wrong. But for some reason I expected to be able to crouch-sprint. For Part I Naughty Dog removed that function after showing it in early gameplay.,- At some points the AI is a bit too unfair while playing on survivor. Do not get me wrong. I know that the game is supposed to be really hard on this difficulty. But it simply is not cool if you are sneaking through an entire area and suddenly you get detected without an enemie being anywhere close to you. Sometimes I even have the feeling that clickers are able to see my flashlight even though the game claims that infected are not able to see it.,,That pretty much sums up my pros, "not great, not terrible" and cons. In the end I would give Part II a really good 9.6. Since Metacritic does not allow this score for user-reviews I have to round this number up to 10.
4991) I finally finished the game of "The Last of Us Part II".. and to be honest, I was left speechless...I don't think I have ever felt so many emotions while playing a game. Sometimes you love it, sometimes you hate it, and at the end you don't know exactly what is it that you are feeling, but you definitely feel it. It is a very deep game. Take your time to analyse all the feelings, emotions and even the songs that are played in each scene. If you manage to understand it, then you will enjoy it the most. It is truly a masterpiece.
4992) The game is perfect. Thats a courageous history, kids aren't going to like it. Thats a game for madure people, with the best techinical aspects in the generation.
4993) Wow is this game something else. I am writing this review about 24 hours after finishing the game and I am still unsure as to how I should be feeling about this, the ending specifically. The game opens a short amount of time after the events of the first, and we play as Joel whilst the opening credits roll. Troy Baker and Ashley Johnson continue their outstanding performances from the first game in the scenes they share together at the start, and throughout the rest of the game.,,I had seen the leaks before beginning my play through and like everyone else, I only felt anger towards this game, but it must, must be played. Those scenes were truly out of context and it is crucial you play through the whole game before hating. You MUST play this, you cannot judge this based on seeing someone else's gameplay, you must play this for yourself.,,Spoilers from here:,,This game breaks my heart - entirely. It is brutal, and I'm still an emotional wreck. Joel saves a new character, Abby, before he is then brutally tortured and murdered by her and her friends, in front of Ellie when she arrives. This creates a lot of anger towards this character, and also confusion. It's difficult to believe after the first game that Joel trusts a stranger, and goes back to their place, instead of going to a secure city roughly the same distance away. So yeah, wasn't exactly pleased with how they killed Joel.,,Throughout the rest of the game, you get flashbacks with Joel, each one just had me see an innocent, great, old guy (very much not innocent), that just made me cry and realise the harshness of his death. When the game makes you play as Abby for hours on end, I wanted to put it down. At this stage, I stopped looking for collectables and just wanted to get back to Ellie. Surprisingly though, I did get somewhat intrigued by Abby's story, and start to feel some sort of care for the character, despite still wanting her dead for what she did to Joel.,,It's the ending that really conflicts me. Abby gets to leave, losing nothing more than Ellie, whilst Ellie loses all of her relationships that mattered to her, and 2 of her fingers, breaking the bridge between her and Joel after his death. She can no longer play the guitar, and it breaks my heart.,,The gameplay, AI, visuals etc are all on another level, and that is where The Last of Us Part II really shines. It is the most stunning game of this generation and is worth it just from the "game" perspective, ignoring your thoughts on the story.,,Overall, I think The Last of Us Part II is a sequel we didn't need, but it's a game that will have an everlasting impact on me. I cannot stop thinking about what this game does, and how it has me so so upset for both Joel and Ellie. It's for that reason, combined with the gameplay I have given this a 10/10 - no other game has ever had me feel like this, and it's an experience you must go through. I will admit that if I could though, I would more accurately rate Part 2 with a 9.8/10 whilst Part 1 would win a 10/10. Part 1 has the better story for me, but Part 2 has everything perfect that a game needs – there are just some decisions with the story that I am not sure I agree with.,,I do prefer the story of the 1st game, and I wish the story could have unfolded differently in this sequel, as in the end the only thing we saw Joel and Ellie actually gain from all this was nothing. They just lost people, themselves, and parts of themselves. I really wish this could have taken a different route, but I can't say this is a bad or mediocre game, it is technically still a masterpiece, I just wish things went differently. That's what's so clever though, the world is cruel and this is a game that makes you realise that.,,I just ask that Naughty Dog clarify the ending (what happened with Dina etc), and maybe make a 3rd game somehow revealing that Joel isn't dead, and a cure is found, allowing for Joel and Ellie to clear out groups of infected and live a life in the normal world as Joel knew it with Sarah. Or, the more likely scenario, is a DLC similar to Left Behind is released, just giving us a lot of time with Joel and Ellie in Jackson similar to the flashbacks we got. I'd just be happy if the whole DLC was 4 hours of cutscenes between the 2 and other characters like Dina and Jesse. Wow has this game moved me. I can't stop thinking about it.,,UPDATE: It has been 2 weeks since my first playthrough and having thought about this game more, it is slowly getting onto the same level as Part 1 for me and it is certainly a game that has to be played. It is a shame most of the user reviews on here are from people who haven’t even given the game a chance and are judging it based on 1 scene, or “experience” they have watching it on YouTube. It HAS to be played.,,Game. of. the. generation.
4994) Fantastic. I understand that people hate it. It is nothing like the first game besides the gameplay and the ending is not as "happy" as the first one. It's impossible to review this game in so few characters so I won't go into details but I advise that you play the game from beginning to end and form your own opinion.
4995) As a preface, I just made my first and only metacritic account and I am writing this review and giving The Last of Us Part II a 10/10 to help fight against the unnecessary review bombing. I would honestly give it a 9/10 for some game-play issues, but overall it was a worthwhile experience. I finished the game a few hours ago and successfully avoided any kind of spoilers throughout my time with the game. If you are a fan of the first game, you will enjoy this one. Just do yourself a favor, play through the prior game and this one and make up your own mind before reading though any review site or forum.,,This title improved upon the first in every way, except for multiplayer which they totally got rid of, which is, in a way, an improvement. I experienced few, and very minor, game-play bugs, but nothing that tarnished the game in any way. The game-play gave me what I expected and more. It allows you to experiment and try different methods to overcoming enemy encounters. The puzzles are frequent. Exploring the detail rich environments is very rewarding and adds so much to the universe that Naughty Dog has created. My only complaint about the whole game would be in game-play, which is the AI. The AI is very very dumb. Naughty Dog has added some features that improve upon AI from the last game. At some instances I would have Hitman flashbacks where I would find some murder corner and pile up 20 bodies while the NPCs would vaguely know where I was, but would be completely unable to do anything about it. I do plan on replaying at a harder/the hardest difficulty so hopefully that won't be a problem anymore. However, I didn't buy this game for the shooting and looting. I bought this game for the story and the world in which it exists.,,The story pulls you in directions that you do and do not want to go. Your heroes become jaded and selfish. The villains; you learn to understand and relate too. At the end of it all it's hard to tell who was right and who was wrong. And at the center of it all is you, the player. Throughout the entire journey, I experienced an array of emotions. The story doesn't go or end where I wanted it to, but it went and ended just where it should have. Some stories are fun and kind and the hold your hand along the entire path. This is not one of those stories. Treat this game like a novel. When your done with it, do it again. And then give it to someone else so that they may live through the characters like you did.
4996) Awesome game.  Not sure what all the hate is about.  From a gameplay standpoint its a massive improvement on the first game.
4997) Game was so good, I played it second time right after, then I played Tlou and DLC again. Its a full circle. ND did it again
4998) People seem to be missing the point of this game. I'm not sure a 10 is quite fair, but it's close enough. Reading half of these reviews kills me. It's obvious most of these people didn't finish the game and rode the wave of backlash. It's good. It hurts. It makes you feel, and if you feel anything, it succeeded. Don't confuse the plot for the story. The storytelling in this game is nothing short of amazing. Just beat it tonight and I'm still trying to come to terms  with it. Excellent game. Just play it and find out for yourself.
4999) It’s a genuinely great game. Probably the best PS4 exclusive right now. Gory, gritty, and tragic, the game’s harrowing tone frames a fantastic story.
5000) The Last of Us 2... and why I think its one of my favorite game of all time.,CONS :The shock DEATHS, for example Jesse and Yara deaths they just leave me after the shock feeling like what I had done was for nothing. The first games had some of these as well,I think the pacing is really bad but I don t think I could've done it better or someone else for the story it is trying to tell. For example I would've done everything chronological but NO, we would've seen what Ellie is doing in 2033 then 2034 then 2036 then what happends a few days after that and then Ellie kissing with DIna and the rest so NO. You would've forgotten every of those moments by the end of the game. And those flashbacks actually have critical role for the moment they are put in. So now getting to the pros.,Pros: I think the story is very good overall. I don't think the main theme is revenge and is about forgivness and overall the good in humanity. A lot of people are mad about Joel dying either early either "stupid" or that he didn t have a hero death witch is just stupid he is an anti hero ffs, From what we know from the first game is that he only care about himself and the ones that he loves. I thought the first game forgot something but it didnt. The first actual scene where we can see that from Joel is right at the begining before Sarah dies, when he leaves behind a hopeless family in the street. So no I didn t have a problem with Joel not heroic death we still get a lot of momets between him and Ellie after and he wasn t stupid I mean it was too far for them to go  back to Jackson and is not like those guys had a firefly band on them and not WLF. And NO there is no plot hole. Abby was actually searching for Tommy, Joel brother cause she knew he was in Jackson it is said in one of the flashbacks. BUT PEOPLE wheren't paying attention to that cause now we don t get to have a villain backstory cuz she just killed our main character ? Come on is just SO STUPID. So Ellie wants to get revenge and she goes and kills Abby's friends to get information about her location. In these moments we see how Ellie gets more comfortable with killing like Joel how his death had an impact on her, IT IS JUST SO GOOD. Then we get to see why Abby killed Joel and that her revenge on him left her with nobody cause now all her friends are dead. We also get some cute bonding moments between her and Lev. She goes after Ellie but she doesn t end up killing her or Dina when she looks at Lev. And Lev is the good part about Abby, he is the motive she tried being a good person. Then after two years at a moment when Ellie was with Dina at a farmhouse, Ellie decides that she wants to go after Abby again against Dina's opinion. She founds Abby but she didnt killed her cause she reminded THE LAST moment of her and Joel , and I dont know if it was intentionally but she was mad at Joel 2 years as she was at Abby. So after 2 years she finally says to Joel that she is ready to forgive him and that she will be seeing him arround. That moment absolutely broke me cause with was so sad. Thats why I think the game is about forgivness, because of Ellie s revenge she gets left with nobody, Abby gets all her friends killed. Joel who didn t care about humanity and murdered an entire hospital gets hated by Elllie. His death was even sadder that it was right after Ellie was ready to forgive him, I DON T GET WHY PEOPLE COMPLAIN IT IS BAD. The first scene of the game was actually Ellie's dream because she was ready to forgive him and that was a moment when they were in the middle of being close and disconected. I love how the guitar is a conection between them because of that first scene. The last scene actually left me thinking she was ready to leave the memories about him behind and get back to her life.,SO the story is very good, I don t need to talk about the combat cause is soo good the exploring is much better the graphics, the views,So my rating for The Last of Us Part II is 9,7/10,stop hating it cause Joel didn t die how or when you wanted. I feel like some people liked the first game and got the impression that now they know everything about writting. I can tell you that the first game had some bad **** in it as well, I mean Tess death doesn't serve other purpose other than for Joel to continue his journey with Ellie cause otherwise he wouldn't have done that. But then anyway he decides to let her with Tommy so yeah Tess death was just as Jesse and Yara death. Sam and Henry the same I mean it s sad and everything but even after seeing it has no impact in the final decision of Joel at the end at the hospital so yeah we can now ,if the user s socre say so, stay and find some bad **** in every video game rather than seeing what it's beautiful about them. Others just now found out that the characters are not the theirs, and the developer's
5001) Absolutely amazing, excellent character development and arch. Takes you down paths you wouldn't expect in a beautifully designed world. Wrought with emotion and twists you wouldn't expect to see.
5002) It's a masterpiece, it just isnt for everyone.,Lots of criticism of this game is just wrong, dont listen to the hate train behind this game and play it yourself.
5003) Beautiful Game. Can’t wait to replay it on ps5 on the hardest difficulty possible
5004) Truely incredible game. I just finished it. The story, gameplay and graphics are all phenomenal. It’s definitely going to take some time to process all the emotions I’m left feeling after completing it.
5005) For all those who rated this game in 0, you should be banned from game comunity. This is not even close from a 0, its a big **** 10. The story is amazing, no matter the end of it. It´s a masterpiece, makes you feel so much that cant even put it in words. Did I wanted Ellie to kill **** Abby? Yes but so what? She didnt, live with that. Trashing a game just because you dont like the story because it isnt what you expected is just BS,,Naughty Dog, great masterpiece, keep up the great work
5006) LOVED this game. Had the same feeling as the original, but managed to be completely different. The twists were awesome. The whole switch of who is the good guy and who is the bad guy was really really good. Graphics were perfect. 10/10 for me.
5007) I understand now , after playing it, I'm still speechless but whomever tried to spoil it sucks
5008) An incredible achievement. This game elevates narrative to a level never reached before, while delivering tense stealth, satisfying combat, rewarding progression, and some terrifying set-pieces. I don’t buy that anyone actually believes this is 0/10. Clearly they only rate it that low because they feel upset by it. Why are they upset? Well ND makes some controversial decisions with the story. Chiefly, Joel is killed early on and many players seem to feel betrayed by this. There are good reasons why this choice works: Joel has been living a more comfortable life after his recovery from injury in TLoU. He is surprised by the ambush at the house, and sure theat is a mistake on his part, but he has walked into ambushes before in TLoU, so there is a precedent for  this failure.,,Also, Joel achieved his redemption in TLoU when he saved Ellie, but this action costs him his life. Some reactionaries might not like it, but that story makes sense. They think that SJWs are coming to take away their action heroes, but Joel was never really that. He was just a dad who lost his kid and was broken by the loss.,,Anyway, anyone reading through all these 0/10 ratings should notice that they are all weirdly hostile and aggrieved and not take them seriously. The game is great, and is even better on a second play through.
5009) I've not played the game, just here to make up for the haters who haven't played it either to balance the score out
5010) I played it without having seen a spoiler and I loved the game in all its aspects from the gameplay that was improved by all the depth they added as well as the artificial intelligence.  The graphics and animations are the best I have seen in a game of this generation and about the story it is a raw and heartbreaking story that makes you feel many emotions, actions are taken that not everyone will like but if you enter the game  with an open mind and not expecting fan service like many is an excellent story that was worth the wait
5011) Just beat the game last night and all I can say is I appreciate and applaud naughty dog for trying something different even if it was a HUGE BOLD RISK...I loved the game all in all though all I can say is it’s different and it truly does some great things and you have to really see the message it’s stating how far will u go for vengeance and will it be worth it and I loved it it felt so unique, there’s things I would Defintely change but I can’t help but appreciate the unique take on this game it brings a sense of happiness loss consequence anger hope and that’s something a lot of games don’t do and this game succeeds on...
5012) I understand people being upset with many of this game’s choices, but I absolutely loved every aspect of it. The visuals, sound, and design are all perfect. The atmosphere is intense and the characters are all memorable. Most importantly, I was fearful that this game wasn’t needed as I thought the first ended perfectly. These fears were not justified, as I thought it told another wild story that was true to its characters.
5013) Challenges you at every turn. Plot points are straight forward but so were the ones from the first game.. It's the story inside that keeps you going. Fleshed out characters, vastly improved gameplay mechanics, incredible visuals, 25-30 hours of game. Will be remembered as one of the greatest games ever created in due time.
5014) I was pleased with a large amount of complexity levels, because I am not a very experienced player, and I played mainly for the plot.,The music, the picture, the elaboration of the characters are all on top and very realistic.,The plot has become very difficult for me. It was very difficult for me emotionally. The game makes you do what you do not want, tells a story from several angles, it was amazing. My heart is broken. But it was worth it.
5015) Simply the best game I've ever played in my life, with a totally deep and human history, making the player exercise a lot of empathy, and consequently absorb many things from the game into his life ... Thanks Naughty dog ​​for this masterpiece , I look forward to continuing the saga.
5016) Morons everywhere. Imagine being so emotionally and intellectually stunted that you don't understand the core message of this game. Absolute masterpiece!
5017) Besides the amazing graphics, level design, facial animations and gameplay, The Last of Us Part II tells a very complex, human story filled with very human characters. It's definitely an intense journey, with a lot of uncomfortable emotional twist and turns. It's a sour tale about hatred, rage, violence, but also, love, loyalty and forgivness.,An absolute masterpiece!
5018) Another masterpiece from Naughty Dog! What an amazing experience. Lots of haters out there. They can stick to button mashing and Call of Duty for all I care. I want a story and emotion. That is what I got. I am still wanting more... I can't wait for TLOU3!
5019) The most progressive gameplay to this time. Story-wise it’s an absolute masterpiece. By the end of the game it makes you ask yourself: “Am I sympathizing the right character? Who’s really the bad guy, Ellie or Abby?” In my opinion this game does not deserve this kind of hate from people.
5020) This game is really phenomenal. Gameplay is fantastic, acting is great, and the story is really well written. The story will not make you happy and honestly, most of the story will just leave you really sad. This game was not made to make you feel good inside. It was made to tell a real story and sometimes a great story won't leave you with the cliche "Marvel Universe" happy ending. The Last of Us gets my recommendation and gratitude from the realness of their story and theirabilityto drive a point home. Thank you!
5021) The game is perfect, Naughty Dog did something that went out of the standard of games, even though I would have imagined in the first game that Joel would die in the sequel that was very clear, but giving a zero score just because a protagonist died? this is sad, because if you stop to think how long the team has not dedicated themselves to making this art, it is a long time of dedication and persistence, I certainly hope for a new independent continuation whoever the protagonists just want more from this wonderful world.
5022) If you loved the first one, you will love this one.,,I am about 4 hours in and I am amazed with how well they did this game.,,Ignore the 0's that are spamming the reviews.,,I would give 8/10 but since there are so many 0's for no reason I am giving a 10 to even out.
5023) Never have I ever had an experience like this in my life with a game. Last time I remember something like this was when I played Hellblade: Senua’s Sacrifice.
5024) Truly an incredible game. The storyline is amazing, and if you truly dislike this game for the sole reason of it having gay characters, then you should probably rethink your life choices.
5025) Don't understand any of the hate at all, it's as much of a masterpiece as the first one was.
5026) I understand why people are upset at the game. I do wish they wouldn’t have killed a certain character. But the way the story unfolds and the intensity is unparalleled. Hands down a next level game. Personally the best story to a game I have ever experienced.
5027) THIS GAME IS PERFECT
5028) An emotional rollercoaster. Challenging and breathtaking - THE game of the decade.
5029) Only prob witht he game is that some gameplay sections seem a bit dragged.But thats a minor nitpick.The story is amazing and beautiful.I loved it.The game made me angry at times and it is alright because that means the game developers did their job well.The ending makes sense because of the bleak world setting.Loved the poignant ending.
5030) Its a amazing game but if u never played the first one go play that one first
5031) A thought provoking story about the cycle of violence and the destruction left in your wake. Naughty Dog keeps topping themselves and this is a culmination of everything they have been building towards.
5032) In the midst of opposition from many directions, both from the fans who were disappointed with the story since the leaked, and from the Anti-SJW group that attacked the creators intentionally putting too much LGBT + in the game. Which led to a 0-point collapse within hours of opening for reviews in Metacritic, in contrast to scores from a lot of media and critics. Until causing the game to be accused of being overrated by critics. And became one of the most controversial games of the late PS4 era.,But after playing 37 hours of The Last of Us Part II through reading all the notes collected in the game, open every safe as there is, looking through the environment in every molecule that I've seen, crawling through the grass, chase after killing the WLF, ride a horse in open area, locked Seraphites's neck, dodge bullets, running away from the infected with a bumping heart, I found that in the dark atmosphere of vengeance and chaos that was overwhelming incessantly. Among the surreal ruins of Seattle  Madness and  Ellie's "Smell of Steel" is carefully crafted, rich and unbeatable.,Even if the game is presented on the story line that goes straight to the same end - to the same pain. But with clever storytelling methods, it returns fresh results. Even though the taste is strange, different, but amazing.,In the first part, we will play Ellie in the age of 18 years. Ellie is not a little kid like in the first part anymore. She becomes a teenager who questions life.  Joel's lies are eating her. While she learns to love, she must experience the loss at the same time.  In the end she lost his way to revenge without destination.,And that's just the beginning,From what we have always thought of, to kill enemies in the game, and maybe there will be some sympathy for our opponents (which is probably not so much), but in the second half of TLOU2. Instead, the game forces us to "play" or act as our own enemies from the first part of the game. That is Abby, the daughter of a doctor who was killed by Joel in the first sequel (to save Ellie). She grew up with a full resentment.  Abandon everything just for strength of body and mind, Waiting for the day to pay back for Joel. Finally, it brought a pounding between her and Elle until the last seconds of the game.,This is how ND tell the story through gameplay. It's take the player to dive with the characters to the max  Players have learned to stand on both sides of the coin. Seeing the development of resentment that ties them together. And in the end, only to find that we all become victims of each other (among many victims in this story).,TLOU2 is therefore not just an action game driven by the story of vengeance that abound. And there is no representation of good vs evil. Everything is vague, anguish and bleak. All the violence that appears in the game is more than that. Victory doesn't come from the enemy's blood, but from both of us. And among all the feelings I had after the end of the play. One of them is the word "aesthetics", pondering over the past 37 hours. Instead of considering fierce paintings, which were drawn with the smallest brush, concentrating so as not to lose sight.,The chase scene between Abby and Ellie in the theater is something that is beyond expectations and really squeezes my heart. This is the only game that leads us to face violence and invites us to see the hurt of both sides of resentment. Until the last moment on the shores of Santa Barbara. The collision between two people who are whacked and lost is therefore the most painful and beautiful tragedy.,"When you're lost in the darkness, look for the light.",Regardless of whether you like or dislike this game for any reason, but the thing that must be accepted is , among all the action games that sell violence so far, we are accustomed to shooting anonymous AI or evil demons. This is a AAA game that is brave enough to raise violence as a proposition, meticulously put life into it and use it to slap our face to call us from the whirlwind of indifference towards action games. And in one way or another, it has changed us forever.,For those who read this and still hate this game. Either from the negative trend or the private opinion. Well, hopefully one day you will see this game like I see. And try to forgive it once.,Ellie: "I don't think I can ever forgive you for that... But I'd like to try."
5033) This game was stunning to say the least. The graphics were incredible and all of the technical elements for this game were executed in a beautiful way. The stealth gameplay was the best I have ever played and the combat never felt redundant and always kept me on my toes. The acting in this game is phenomenal and the dialogue always felt natural and realistic. While I may not have loved where the story went in this game sometimes, the writing was amazing. I never knew what was going to happen next. Playing as Abby was difficult at first because she killed Joel, a very beloved character, but they did a very good job at showing that every revenge story has two sides. While I still love Joel as a character and it broke my heart that he died, he did terrible things that make him the villain. A hero and a villain of any story are all about perspective and I like that they showed that here. I loved that the characters in this game felt like flawed human beings. During the fight scenes between Abby and Ellie, I found myself not wanting to hit the button in either fight. The ending may not have been a "happy" ending, I found that it showed that Ellie had regained her humanity and had come to terms with Joel's death so that she can move on. I definitely know that playing through this game in its entirety before reviewing it is essential. I do not think that you can just watch certain scenes and form a complete opinion. Part of me wanted to stop playing after Joel's death because it was so heartbreaking to me, but I'm glad that I didn't. Not every game can have a happy ending and I'm glad that this game was not just another version of the first game with slightly different story elements. I'm glad that this game did something different and I think that the people who worked on this game did an amazing job.
5034) Some pretty amazing emotional high's and low's. Tight game play, amazing graphics, sometimes tense, always fun.
5035) Great game. Visuals gameplay and STORY are all top tier this is definitely a must play.
5036) This game is amazing! Is a piece of art!,The graphics is supera, the sound is really Goodyear and the actors is amazing!
5037) Arguably the best game of the past few years.DO NOT PAY ATENTION TO THE USER SCORE!!!
5038) What a ride. Emotional rollercoaster. I wish I could forget this game... to replay it and enjoy it again for the first time.
5039) Just an awesome game! I’m honestly still pretty shaken up over it, listening to the soundtrack over and over again, reliving all of those feelings again, it’s definitely a must play. Don’t let these bad reviews stop you from getting the game, some people were just expecting something completely different (I was but ended up liking it anyways) and some people just hate it for stupid reasons, just see it for yourself, don’t mind others opinions.
5040) It is the best audiovisual product I have ever seen, it takes a certain empathy to understand the work, but I suppose that one day humanity will co-understand this work of art.
5041) If i can describe this story in one word, it would be “agony”. Such a bittersweet ending, is just so sad to see everything falling apart even thoug you’re trying so hard to make everything right. But it’s impossible to say that this isn’t a beautiful story. All these people complaining about it are just butt hurt because of Joel’s death and can’t see the bigger picture.
5042) Just finished the game. Love the story, graphics, acting, sound and music, environments, the contrast Between brutal violence and lovely emotional scenes. I’m very impressed by what Naughty Dog has pulled off here. Masterpiece.
5043) I love this game. The gameplay is better than tlou 1.The story is so good, in conclusion is masterpiece for me
5044) Gamers are toxic, and most who’ve rated this didn’t play it, and hate it based on spoilers they don’t even understand. It’s a masterpiece.
5045) Perfection The game brings everything we expected and everything promised Thanks naughty dog
5046) I like the characters and the story. And the violence is plausible and feels great. So yes its a really good Game.
5047) One of the bests games of the generation. I honestly think the second part of the game it's a little bit too long. If you like the first game and, if you have an open mind, it's your game.
5048) At first when I completed this game, I did not know how to feel about it. But after a couple of days of thinking about the events of this game it is actually brilliant. The more I think about this game the more I love it.
5049) OMG I need more....,,Well done Naughty Dog!,,Overall:,I have played many story driven games LOU1, metal gear games, Horizon, Gears of war, everything you can think of since gaming began (I'm getting on in age). This is one of, if not the best game I've played. It was so varied in the different locations and things that happen. The combat mechanics are just amazing, and just the right amount of improvements to the first game. Story is massively rewarding and has your emotions switching left and right,  and it left me wanting more once the game had ended. So much so I started again straight away which I've never done before. I can't sing its praises enough. Much better than the first Last of Us game.,,Story: The story is up there with even the best movies / tv shows. Can it win an oscar? Is it possible because it should. There is a shift of perspectives that will have your emotions and allegiances running wild not to mention the fear and pressure you feel of different situations you will encounter. The story is not predictable at all and keeps going even when you think its about to end.,,Bad reviews:,Ignore the massive raft of bad reviews from people who are completely butt hurt that Joel dies and you can't be him anymore.,,They talk about ellie's bad decisions - she is driven by grief, anger and revenge so would not be making logical decisions but ones driven by pain. It's a compelling and rewarding story arc filled with redemption.,,Abbie is unlikeable - complete rubbish, your opinion will shift and she's a god damn bad ass. You will grow to love her and realise she was driven by the same grief and desire for revenge as ellie.,,But Joel died - yes I was upset too, but his story had ended. He had a daughter again who he had saved. Stop being whiny and butt hurt!,,The story is a mess - rubbish! I've never seen story telling like it. It's perfect. I'll admit, it can be a little slow in bits but the reward of the end of the game is perfect - just fantastic. A++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
5050) Absolutely outstanding game. One of the best of the generation. The gorgeous graphics, incredible sound design and overall insane production quality isn't even the main reason why TLOU2 is so good. The story is every bit as fantastic as in the first game. It's twisted, rewarding and emotionally draining in a great way. The game is so immersive, I felt almost possessed by it. The combat and general gameplay is great as well, the superb stealth sections stand out in particular. I do recommend playing the game on a higher difficulty, to really hammer home the survival horror aspects of the game. All in all, the game is just great, and people like different things, who would've thought. However almost every bad review I've seen and read for this game, boils down to "I don't like girls, lesbians and Ellie isn't a straight white male, so I can't relate to her". I hate to break it to you, but you're not really similar to Doomguy or Dante either. The game's story is beautifully crafted, and feeds off the momentum of the first game. The Last of Us 2 should, and will be remembered as one the defining games of it's generation.
5051) Best sequel ever made !!! A lot of people  mad at the plot, it’s not that bad. The gameplay and details in this game still amaze me.
5052) An absolute must play. Yes, it demands a lot from it's players,but the way it channels your emotions through every action you take is unlike any game you will ever play.
5053) SPOILERS!!!,,I liked this game a lot, its story is captivating in all aspects, its gameplay is from my point of view one of the best in a video game and as for the loss of such a character, I think it was the perfect way to say goodbye because of world where they are. Finally with Abby, I really liked his story and that character does have a remarkable evolution, thanks to his story we were able to understand many things, this game is too good.
5054) The game is great in all aspects. People that didn't like the game didn't understand how deep it is. It makes you question yourself constantly. It's not just about revenge, it's about what comes with it and what it may do to you. Masterpiece and game of the year for me.
5055) One of the boldest narratives ever told in a video game, and one of the best games I've ever played. A modern classic.
5056) This game is an absolute masterpiece. I never experienced so much different feelings in one. It was a horrible, sad and beautiful Story, I can't understand the negative comments. This game was not made to make you happy or comfortable! And those who criticise the Gay/Trans part: Grow the f*** up!
5057) Beautiful game. Amazing job from naught dog. I love the sound design and the mocap is top notch. My favorite part was honestly just walking. The game has such an intense atmosphere, I forgot I was playing a game.
5058) Undoubtedly one of the best games of this generation alongside cyberpunk 2077 even if it isn’t out yet. But seriously Sony killing it with them exclusives. I gotta say the weapons and the combat are my absolute favorite. It’s just so realistic. However the story isn’t what I’d describe as rainbows. Definitely engaging but super sad.
5059) An important step forward in video game narratives. Divisive, bold, and tragic. Hopefully, this game opens the door for more creators to take big risks in the medium.
5060) This game is the perfect sequel, never believe otherwise. It challenges player to grapple with morally ambiguous choices and the consequences of such choices. It fully realizes what violence in a video game does to a person, making the player feel connected to the actions they partake. Additionally, this fame provides much needed representation in the industry, and if you have a problem with that, then don’t buy it because there are plenty of games about white males!!
5061) An absolutely beautiful game. Compelling characters, gorgeous graphics, a relatively simple but still engrossing story. The gameplay is stressful as hell in all the best ways.,,Ignore the bigoted incels whinging about Naughty Dog not catering to their worldview or plot requirements and experience one of the most affecting experiences the medium has ever seen. I'm looking forward to playing it again and can't wait to see what Naughty Dog does next.
5062) Awesome Game, yes trhe story is not for everybody, but gfx, atmosphere and gameplay have never been better
5063) I get why people are mad, but it deserves at least an 8 or 9 if not a 10/10. I doubt if other developers dare to make such a leap forward in narrative and storytelling. Can't imagine this to be achieved without such an interactive medium.
5064) They surprisingly managed to make an even greater game than it's predecessor
5065) Great game. I think a lot of the negative reviews came before people actually finished the game.
5066) Compelling and brutal, you really do need to play it rather than watch it to get the tension and dread. You end up having to do things through the plot that can be really uncomfortable while the characters single minded pursue their revenge.
5067) Best gamer ever,even better than the first part.The gameplay,soundtrack,story,these emotions i get from this game.Yeah i agree that the story is disputable,but this is the most romantic and tragic story in the game industry.When I think about this game I fall out of reality.I love this game.
5068) Watch girlfriend reviews. That sums up how I feel. This is a masterpiece, just not the one we wanted.
5069) Masterpiece that gave me very strong feelings after my play through. Can’t think of another game did this. It deserves better ratings.
5070) For me is one of the most dramatic ending, the way that you change your mind over the process of the game is perfect! I don’t want the game do and ends the way I think, I want thing happens in a way I never think
5071) The story is deep, engaging and will really hit you in the feels. The games visuals are some of best I've ever seen, and the gameplay is smooth and interactive in a enjoyable way.
5072) This game is amazing, definitely one of the top 2 games I’ve played, the last of us part one being the other.  The graphics and gameplay are the best I’ve ever experienced in any game, the story is so compelling, I don’t think there was an emotion I didn’t feel while playing this.  Definitely a 10/10.  Really hope they continue the story!
5073) I finished the game awful. Or rather, this is not a game it is an experience. Everything has a side and nobody is 100% good or 100% bad. The construction of the whole plot was a consequence of the end of the first game, which puts you intensely in the shoes of Ellie and Abby who both seek revenge and the reason (THE SOMETHING) to continue. It's amazing how the end of the two was so real. I feel bad, but I know that this experience has taught me a lot.
5074) (THE REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS),This game is as good as the first game to me, I did not like the idea of playing as Abby, until it happened, I could understand everything she's been through and even though no one is good or bad in a post-apocalyptic world, Abby is way more moral than Ellie,  Ellie is now a different and selfish person, this game made me go on an emotional roller coaster with every scene. When I started the game I hated Abby and love Ellie, thought everything was black and white, turns out, there is also gray. The ending is really hard to understand to find great, I found it amazing and fair for both Abby and Ellie,
5075) Awesome. And glory so much better that all your lives together because. I sad all
5076) I can see why people are struggling with their emotional reactions to this game, and it's resulting in a lot of people saying things like "no character development" and " bad plotting." There's scenes in this game that are so packed full of emotional weight and dexterity, I think it's catching people off guard. If you wants game that treats you like an adult with a full range of emotions, this is it.
5077) An awesome game. Not just the story, but everything about it, gameplay, art etc. Don't listen to the bad reviews, they are either haven't even played the game and believed in rumours or just seen the trailers,  homophobic or upset because the story did not go to the way they were expecting. Again this game is mind blowing. I just think the critic on this game is unfair. Firstly some based it of the trailer and rumors, without even playing the game first, I was expecting for you to play the game first and say something about it. Well I can tell you as I have finished  the game it is a masterpiece, everything is the opposite of what they are saying, it's scarier and in fact more emotional than the first game and a lot darker. And just because you didn't like how the story would go as you expect it to be, it does not mean it is bad. I am upset that Joel died (spoiler alert) but his story was pretty much told in the first game. It would have been repetitive if he was to stay longer but it's still would have been interesting how his character would have progressed. The story did went unexpectedly but I believe it was done on purpose, to basically capture the gamers emotions and give the trilogy a new meaning and direction when Last of Part 3 comes out. If your still upset because of rumors, trailers or because the game went on a different direction, then tough sucks to be you. In fact why don't you apply to Naughty dog, and tell the story you want to be told?  In the end the game was still able to  tell the story the way they want it to be told and they conveyed it perfectly. In fact I love how it was done unexpectedly, it was shocking in a good way. But too sensitive to some people out there who's tied to the characters of the first game. What a bunch of nitwits.
5078) The Last of Us Part II is a powerful, uplifting, visually stunning masterpiece.
5079) an absolute masterpiece, a job like few others in the world of video games, a simply fantastic story that empties you of all the feelings you felt during the whole adventure. Technically flawless chapter on each side, even the gameplay is enriched with many fun and never the same mechanics. The story is the highlight: it tells about cruelty, selfishness and human ignorance in all its aspects (those who gave low marks did not want to accept this harsh reality), insert small parts of affection and deep love for the whole 'adventure. the ending totally represents the title itself ... the last of us. monumental masterpiece
5080) This is a wonderful game. PLEASE IGNORE any negative comments about flat characters/they wanted it in Joel's perspective because they clearly weren't playing any attention. The character development/dynamics were amazing, and I will forever be a fan to Naughty Dog for not letting what Incels/COD gamers wanted interfere and just made the game THEY wanted, which is why the first one was so successful. Please buy this game if you want a great story, good gameplay, and your heart broke of course. You really feel the emotions, I'll never forget the detail in the quiver in Joel's voice and the small details that made this game amazing please enjoy this game ❤. As a add on, the wonderful display of true character dynamics (even though it touches on things INCELS dont like) is perfect. I love you Naughty Dog
5081) People are always looking for games that make them feel in a good way, like the first one, you know, like the definition between black and white, the good guys and the bad guys but the second one breaks with that, here are only gray  (depending on your point of view), that's the good thing about this incredible game.
5082) The Last of Us part 2 is on of the best games of all time! People seem to hate this game because of Joel's death in the prologue. I was shocked that people didn't see this coming. A lot of people explains why it's bad storytelling. IT is NOT bad storytelling. Joel made a choice in the ending of the first game. He killed a lot of innocent people and lied to Ellie. A good story have consequences to actions. This is what happen in the beginning of the game.,,The gameplay and graphics is also 10/10.
5083) Best game of this generation of video games. A masterpiece! Technically perfect. Unpredictable script that does not relieve those who cannot deal with losses and diversity. An exercise in empathy.
5084) Fantastic yet again naughty dog. With enough moments to make you sit in fear of continuing  both due to story line and them *ucked stalkers. Bravo!
5085) VERY GOD GAME WTF, I BECAME DEPRESSED BECAUSE THIS GAME SHIEEEEEEEEt,  I WILL CRYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY, I WANT MORE  THEE LAST OF USSS PLSSS SO **** GOOOOOOOOOOODDD
5086) I love this game from  the existing characters  to the newcomers  this game makes you think what is good and what is evil what is  right and what is wrong it also tells you that your actions have consequences  and nothing will go  unnoticed  this is a story about revenge this is a story about love anger hate sadness and  grief  this story is meant to break you it's meant to make you feel uncomfortable  and for that  I love this game but  that's just my opinion
5087) I love this game to death it feels so realized and all the work put in is really amazing.,GOTY for sure!
5088) Was a Great game loved playing it! I understand some of the negatives but in all was a damn great game.
5089) Truly a masterpiece. Ignore the negative politically based reviews. You will not find another gaming experience like this.
5090) Incredible. Best game ever made. So many emotions at the same time. Never cried that much playing a game before.
5091) Perfect game in any aspects, no spoilers need, just play this masterpiece, it's perfect and beautiful
5092) The best experience, a beautiful game, a very important game for me in terms of representativeness, I loved it so much.
5093) Just completed the game unlike all the other appalling Zero scores that popped up minutes after the game was released, Don't belive the hate this game is incredible.
5094) TLoU ll is definitely one of the best game ever in the history of video games, just a master piece, Naughty Dog you are the BEST
5095) I loved it so much the best gameplay ever best graphics very good story and a good idea and it's new
5096) This is a piece of art. And art is not supposed to make you feel comfortable. It is supposed to have a message that is worthwhile telling. This game is a masterpiece. I say that as a fan and as a trained peace mediator. The game deals with the circle of violence and shows an realistic picture of how grief, PTSD and empathy work. It delivers a message, I always graved for people to hear. And it delivers it in a way, that is so powerful. The fact that so many people complain about it shows that it was necessary to make it. A lot of important art got a lot of backlash at the time. I believe that the haters are on the wrong side of history here.,I was horrified, when Joel died. But I was also proud, that Naughty Dog hat the courage to do it. I am so disappointed with a lot of Pop culture that are afraid to take a bold step like that. And in my opinion, it was the only logical thing to do. If they spared him, their message would have lost its impact and it would have resulted in a mediocre story and a big case of whateverism. If they went for fan service, I would forget it in a year. But now, I will always remember it. This game triggered so many different feelings in me and just hit the mark completely. I don't think, I can describe the value it had for me. Every second of it was perfect.,Thank you Neil and Naughty Dog for creating a game, that was not just fun but also had artistic value like no other!
5097) The game is a masterpiece thank you naughty dog and i am enjoying the good story and the great gameplay that the game has
5098) This game is amazing, bar none. A bunch of incels beat this game on the release weekend and decided to **** all over it on metacritic because *gasp* a series known for having a bloody story has a bloody story. The story is incredibly complicated. The gameplay mechanics from the first have been optimized and some of the less desirable parts of the first have been trimmed. This is an incredible game. Do not listen to the reviews. I highly encourage you to play the game and develop your own thoughts on it. Best game of the console generation.
5099) The game is absolutely stunning, anxious, so dramatic and sad. It's perfect,- the main plot, gameplay, graphics etc. It has to be 10 out of 10, however.....guys.....you're telling such a story and trying to advertise all the LGBT+FEM+IDK....what's next?Don't get me wrong, it does not matter what orientation you have....but really...genders, transgenders, gay. Why do you have to put so many "characters" like that? It makes everyone doing facepalms all the time. That girl/guy(Scar)...omg. As of my point of view this game was about love, the cursed circle of violence, revenge, forgiveness somehow. All the LGBT+ guys, please tell them, that IT'S NOT NECESSARY TO MAKE ALL THE WORLD AROUND BEING GAY. We're all different!!!!
5100) This game is a piece of art, filled with complex, diverse and believable characters.,It is almost poetic, how the backlash that game receives, really just underlines its deeper meaning. Even without these extreme circumstances like funghi zombies people just give into their grief and hate without any kind of reflections. All those who hate Abby for doing what she does, are just like Abby, giving into their hate, thinking they are out to get justice for what they feel has been taken from them. And then like Ellie, they are being unable to let go of her grief. That is the reason, why we need games like The Last Of Us 2. Because they hold up a mirror and challenge us, showing us what we don't want to see about ourselves. This is what art does. And that's not even mentioning the craftmanship that went into creating this masterpiece.,This game, on every level, is art.
5101) Great game. Details amazing, nice idea for playing two characters. Love it.
5102) What this game did to me, no other game or movie has been able to do. I felt things that I never felt playing a game, constant chills, lots of emotions, both joy and sadness and an immersion that I never felt playing a game before.,This was not just a game for me, it was a unique experience. This is a masterpiece.
5103) 10/10. For me it is a masterpiece! Emotional, heart-swept story, fantastic gameplay, fantastic graphics. In my opinion, the best game I've ever played.
5104) I was not expecting the first game all over again, and even though i did not like Joel dying, i liked that the game gave me both perspectives on loss and revenge. I enjoyed playing as both ellie and abby. To me the game is great, of course with its flaws, like every other game ever made, but all in all, in the end, i honestly liked the second game more than the first.
5105) The game deserves its attention, it’s a pity for those young people who, most likely because of the aggressive mood towards the LGBT community or other incomprehensible moments, could not enjoy the game itself.,Graphics, production, plot, sound are all at a very high level.
5106) Simply AMAZING! This is the new standard for storytelling in video games. Future GOTY!  Part 3 can’t come soon enough!
5107) Nice story. Nice graphics. Nice and brutal game play. I cannot understand how people can hate this masterpiece.
5108) One of my all time favorite games. Everything about it was good. Don't listen to all of those 0/10 scores on the first day. You have to actually finish the game, Imagine if you played the first one but never saw the end. There were parts where I considered giving up but I didn't and am super glad. Anyway it's a profound work of art in my opinion.
5109) The best stealth I've ever met. Animations and sound are also good. The plot tells about the other side of revenge.
5110) There are an incredible number of reviews posted ON launch day complaining about the story - which is amazing considering you need AT LEAST 30 hours to play the game properly to the end (that would be more than a day if you're counting).,,Please play the game with an open mind about the story! Go along with the narrative and take it as it comes, instead of trying to compare it to what you wanted and I guarantee you will at least appreciate it. It is a lot darker, and takes a no BS approach.,,I agree about the ending being a bit meh, and there are some gameplay mechanics that could have been refined - but I absolutely love the game. It is beautiful, fun and dynamic.
5111) This is actually a great game, one or two difficulties with some of the buttons but also happy about some of the new actions you can do  , The story is very good and upsetting ,if you think about it and this if for the people upset about the story , it’s a apocalypse game bad stuff happens to good people this ads a bit of realism and shock.look at it if it was real life it’s inevitable that something would happen eventually to someone eg walking dead . It can’t always be about how you want it and it to be. But that what makes the story so good the fact that it upsets and hurts you , you live that pain as if it was real. So finish the game play it again. FYI I did not enjoy last of us 1 but second time playing I got the feel of the story and idea. Have fun playing.
5112) It is hard to write well at this moment about the game. What I have to say is that if you believe in videogames as an art form, and not just consumable entertainment, you should play it. Don't form an opinion until you finish, be open and think about all that went through you. This game is a huge step towards art, for games. You will not get what you want, but you will get a lot to chew on, think about.I completely disagree with claims of bad writing, everything is well built up, has a place, has meaning. Of course it is not a perfect execution, but it is as close as I can imagine getting, while grasping so much, going into so many complicated topics, and doing it so subtly too in some cases. It is not for everyone to enjoy, but it is for those willing, to experience it. There can be a lot of things disagreed on in the story, many conversations started. And that is why I am glad this game exists. I hope people will be willing to dig deeper, and see what was done here. And over time allow this medium to reach its full potential, which proved by this game, is huge.
5113) One of the best game in the world. Not so good like first part off course, but i love it from first second
5114) Incredible experience throughout the whole game. If you come to this game with the open mind and neglect all negative reviews you may have lots of fun during the game process and emotional roller coaster throughout the story.
5115) one of the best games ever created.,despite the spoilers suffered, I fully enjoyed it
5116) For me, it started off at an 8. Halfway through the game it dropped down to a 5, crawled back up to a 6 and right up until the end it stayed there. It ended up a 10. I can't stop thinking about the ending.,,It starts out amazing. (Killings included) it was a GREAT move. It takes a nosedive halfway through the game though, and it took me the rest of the game to realize it's narrative function. It's not plain cut and dry, it's a rollercoaster.,,So gameplay: It's awesome, just as much as the first game. There are parts of which I would've liked to see way more of (like the open-world bit, turns out it's the only one) and it has some good variations on the old formula throughout the game. It can get pretty tedious after a while though, and due to some narrative choices, it takes a whole lot getting used to halfway through the game.,,So the story. As you might have heard it's about revenge. But it actually isn't. It's about the feeling, the gnawing of it, the **** you go through for it, the guilt that sticks, how tiring it is. how it eats you up.,,SPOILERS:,The game does not have a pay-off in a general sense, it's not about getting what you want, it's about finding out that whatever you wanted, isn't what you want anymore. it's about being free from whatever it was that you held on to. The game's boring parts, the tediousness, the endless repetition, combined with genuinely great moments and storytelling, makes for a great platform to a pay-off that no game has ever dared to give.,,Naughty Dog's approach is daring, ballsy, hard-fought. It's not a game for everyone because it's not traditional in most senses. It's subtle, it's rough, it's messy and it's a puzzle that fits way too damn well together.,,So what I'm trying to say is: It's great, it might not be your cup of tea and that's fine. But the storytelling is amazing. One of the reasons that you might not like it, is because you're not used to the way it's been told. You'd be wrong to assume it's a Hollywood movie covered in ultra-violence.,It's the closest thing to a AAA title with art-house tendencies.,,To me, it's one of the first games ever that knows how to manage storytelling within games as a medium in such a sense, that it elevates the medium instead of just copying movies.,,This post probably will get buried because of disagreement, but I think it needed to be said. Naughty Dog knows what it's doing and does an amazing job. Don't knock what you don't understand. You don't have to like the game :) I'm heavily impressed and can't wait for part 3.
5117) A story full of relatable characters with a good ending that is not supposed to please the majority of the people, but to do what is supposed to do: tell a story. And in my honest opinion a great story. Positively adding the graphics and the stable gameplay, this just is the last real gem we'll see on the PS4.
5118) This game is an absolute masterpiece. Play it.,,Seriously, it's a wonderful game. Naughty Dog story telling is just so far above everyone else. The game play is finally really good. Don't listen to the people posting reviews who didn't even play it or, heard the leaks and decided to leave a 0 out of 10 review, telling people to burn it.,,This game is worth your time, so play it.
5119) Okay, first things first. Is this really a 10 out of 10 game? No. So why did I rate it a 10? To balance out at least one reviewer who gave the game a 0 out of 10.,My real rating would be between 6 and 7, I think. This game in no way is a perfect 10, not even close. But it is still closer to a 10 than a zero, and zero is a ridiculous rating. Those who give it a zero have never played a truly horrible game. I respect that many people felt betrayed because of what happens at the beginning of the game, but I also feel like people have to try and be fair in their rating, not just rating the game at zero because of that one thing that made them see red (even though I admit that that part was a big deal, and something I think they should not have done).,I played the first game on PS3 and loved. One of my all time favorite games. I would rate that game between 9 and 10.,The weakest link for me in The Last of Us 2 is the story. I would call it "Meh...", and did certain parts piss me off? Yes. There is one part that pisses me off, which is also the event that sets up the entire rest of the story in the game. And I believe this part is one of the biggest reason for people rating the game at zero.,But beyond that part, the story to me is just... Fine. It's not great, it's not horrible, it's just fine.,I also feel like there are two endings to the game (those who have played it know what I mean), and I feel like the game should have ended at the first ending. Everything after that seems like a waste of time which really doesn't add anything to the story and doesn't give the player any better closure.,I had a lot of fun playing the game itself, even though some things became a bit repetitive after playing the game for a few hours.,The game is also very good looking, beautiful I would even say.,In conclusion:,The game for me is between 6 and 7 out of 10. I hated the part that set up the rest of the story, but I am still trying to evaluate the game not only from that one part, but the game as a whole. That may seem hard since the whole game is based on that one big moment in the game, what I call "The Game of Thrones syndrome", where any character can die at any moment. After GOT it seemed to be in style to copy that, shocking people by sweeping the rug from under their feet. This is the biggest fail Naughty Dog did, I think. Was it shocking? Yes. But I still feel like it was nowhere near worth it. I rather would have liked to see them make a great continuation to the first game. I know that if they would have done that, then the user rating would be close to a 9 out of 10.
5120) A master piece, try it and make you're own opinion. Don't be a follower and let other people make your opinion for you.
5121) This game was everything that I hoped it would be. The story may not have been what I expected, but it took me in unexpected directions that were amazing on their own. There is a lot of nuance in the game and in its intertwined story. The voice acting is award worthy. 10/10, for sure.
5122) A huge upgrade in every way possible from what I already considered one of the best games of all time. This is the perfect example of how a very scripted game can still give a player a lot of freedom, there are countless ways to beat the same areas, and the game really challenges you to think creatively  and make your way though the game as efficiently as possible by giving you very limited resources. I usually hate it when a game limits a player to make place for its story, but it's handled so well here that it really doesn't remove any of the flow in the gameplay. Also, this story is absolutely amazing, it really puts the story of the first game in a whole different perspective, it's incredible how it can make you rethink everything you've done through the game. There has never been a story that has made such an impact on me, for this reason I won't go any more in depth, I don't want to spoil anything because this really is something you have to experience yourself.
5123) It's sad to see that we live in a generation of people so entitled to their own feelings, most people who are rating this game 0 are review bombing for some reason or are just like " this game didn't make me feel like I wanted to feel". What a great generation we live in. I understand that some people don’t like some aspect of the game or the story but to rate this masterpiece a zero is dishonest.,I don't even need to argue about the graphics animation and gameplay it's one of the best that we’ve ever got period. God of war is the only close contender that I can think of.,Story wise this game is as honest and real as it can get, it’s not without flaws but it's a bit of really needed fresh air in the superhero era where every story is like " we are the good guys and we need to kill the bad guys". There are no good guys in this story, just humans trying to survive and adapt in a very dark world. Even in the first game after the first tragedy he encounters, Joel becomes this smuggler who used people and killed people who crossed him, but we grew to love him after understanding the kind of world he lives in, after seeing his human side show up again in his relationship with Ellie, and how she changed him. The choice he had to make at the end of the first game was very hard and he choose the most selfish option, which is understandable knowing what he’s been through but still, it's a happy ending for him, not for Ellie who lost the purpose in life that her immunity gave her, not the fireflies, and all of humanity. And that's the whole point of the death of Joel. in a real world you can't have a happy ending at any cost, because the decisions you make are going to come back and hunt you, It’s a real story and just because you love a character doesn’t mean he can condemn all of humanity and go unpunished, and that’s where the brilliance of the second game begins.,After Joel death, the player is embarked in this emotional journey where in the beginning as Ellie you start to hate the group of people that killed him, I couldn’t wait as a player to kill all of them specially Abby, because I loved Joel and the cruel way in which they killed him, especially after seeing how much he grew to love Ellie, all of the flashbacks, made the grief of losing him as a character even more strong and made you feel the exact same way Ellie felt. Thus all the killing and the obsession about revenge were justified. Until this point the story was very mainstream, an old fashion revenge story and we had a million of those.,Then we get to Play as Abby, at first I hated it, why would I have to play as the person who killed someone I cared about, but the further I got into her story the more I started to realise that she had as much right to kill Joel as Ellie has the right to kill Abby, she lost her father who was trying to save humanity, and as consequence of Joel decision not to lose Ellie she lost all her world and found herself forced to adapt in a war between two factions and we can see that her and Owen regret what they’ve become for the sake of survival, after that the story  puts her in a journey to atone for her sins and regain her humanity, and that’s what Lev and Yara represents to her and why she puts so much importance into saving them , because they are the ones who saved her life when she was dying and they are the ones who are going to save her humanity when she almost lost it.  This is where Me as a player stood corrected and felt guilt for hating her without knowing her story . why people hated her part is beyond Me, it’s what made the story special and what made the experience of the game different than any other game I’ve played. That’s the beauty of it it’s supposed to show you how right and wrong are relative to everyone perspective, and not just by telling you so but making you experience the emotions the characters went through.,Then comes the epilogue in Santa Barbara, this part of the game felt a little bit rushed, it’s understandable because the game was already getting long, maybe they could’ve cut some of the Seattle part to invest more in this. Abby’s and lev’s abduction by the Rattlers added nothing to their story, apart from giving Ellie a reason to feel sorry for them and add a little weight to the decision of letting Abby live which I think they did a poor job at explaining. I understand that she remembered the night she forgave Joel and she understood that’s she’s capable of showing mercy and that’s why she forgave her the same way she forgave Joel but I would’ve loved for Ellie to know Abby’s side of the story, or involve Lev in the decision of mercy but maybe they are letting this for Part 3.,I salute ND for having the guts to do the right thing, stayed true to the spirit of the world they created, people who don’t like this TLOU2 missed the point of the first game. It was not about two heroes it was about survival in a dark world
5124) Loving how many of the negative reviews for this are from the day of release... not sure that many people finished the game so quickly!,,Yes the game is probably not for everyone, it is dark, it is gruelling and it makes some bold choices, but I am not sure what people expected... I am possibly in the minority in that I didn't see Joel as the villain at the end of TLoU, I think most people would protect the life of a loved one in any way possible in the same situation, but at the same time, he killed a lot of people and prevented the possibility of a cure.... there were always going to be reprecutions.,,This game is the logical next step in the story, I think it would have been highly unrealistic if it had just been a new story with Joel and Ellie off on some new adventure.,,The game is a genuine masterpiece of storytelling, and game development and deserves all the praise and sales it has gotten. Maybe it isn't for everyone and I feel almost sad for people that didn't enjoy as it really is so brilliant, but then there are highly rated games I did not enjoy so each to their own!
5125) An incredible game and story telling with a few minor pacing issues.,After playing thr first game again and then coming to the second it was great to see as Ellie grew and learned to fight like Joel and become a great successor to the beloved character. After the death of Joel I didn't know what to expect but it was a good plot twist as its unexpected. Then, when you play Abby you start off hating her but the more you get to know her side of things and the motivations of her character you really begin to like her. Character development, story, gameplay and graphics are all amazing. Pick it up if you feel like it but if you don't you'd definitely be missing out.
5126) 10/10 Story 10/10 Story 10/10 Story 10/10 Story 10/10 Story 10/10 Story 10/10 Story 10/10 Story 10/10 Story 10/10 Story
5127) Everything from the perspective, to story telling, to the emotion. All of it was executed near flawlessly. Even almost to a disadvantage. In anticipation of reaching the end and seeing more story, some parts of the game towards the end felt long or drawn out. But the characters and animation and gameplay in general was incredible. I can see the argument for a rearranging of certain story beats and elements. But I personally had very minor issues there. Overall, the game spoke to me. And it taught me something that I will carry with me. Thankful for this heartbreaking and emotionally dark story.
5128) I'm not used to write reviews, in fact this one is my first one. I'm forced to do it to fight against those who think that this game is junk. What I can say is that this game is probably the best game that I've ever played in my life, and belive me, I've played many. This game has the power to take you and break you apart and, like never before, I feel changed, I'm more introspective and somehow sadder. I've never thought that a videogame could give me such strong emotions, there isn't a movie that managed to do what this game did. It is such an intense and shocking experience that I will probably never forget. Every carachter is so well defined, so real that I still hardbly belive that they don't exist. For those who think that THAT carachter shouldn't have died, I can say: well, what did you expect? 25 hours of the same stuff that happened in the first game? No one wants a more of the same! Certain events were needed to push the story forward in a belivable way and they did it brilliantly. Great congratulations to Dr. Uckman and his team.  If you don't like this game, you are not ready for it, or worse, you don't deserve it...
5129) For me its 10/10 and im hetero lol :D. Gameplay and even story its very cool. I think most of ppl cant stand that the one of the main character is dead. The Ellie Lesbian its not a problem for me and im not pro lgbt to be Honest. Homo were also in assassina creed odysey even the witcher  cuz i understand that is the main problem for some ppl.
5130) I freaking loved it. Familiar gameplay, a story that was thought outside of the box story that humanised the main antagonist and and ending that shows why Ellie was on the warpath and what she lost for doing so.
5131) Utterly incredible, a rare masterpiece to round off the generation. The story is gritty, neatly paced and gut wrenching. Every step of the journey is tense and uncertain. Each combat scenario can be approached in a dozen ways, while the graphics and controls have been refined to perfection. The PS4 has not seen such a cinematic experience since God of War.
5132) Can see where the sequel does not reach the heights in storytelling and game play development as its predecessor, but was overall enthralled by the the characters, game design, and plot lines. Would recommend this franchise and am eager to see how the world building in The Last of Us series continues.
5133) Probably the best game I have ever played. Amazing. Kudos to Naughty Dog for this master piece.
5134) Amazing Game, Perfect history, and a good gameplay  Every aspect you want from video game is in its highest quality here : narrative, characters, exploration, leveling, shooting, etc. This game is a masterpiece
5135) The thing that perhaps blows me away more than any other facet of this game is just the sheer daring of its ambition. No other developer in the industry who's on the same level in terms of budget and exposure touches these subjects in quite the same way. The characters here aren't larger than life; the violence, while at time gruesome, is never glorified; there are no heroes, no villains. Despite the fictional nature of the setting, it's one of the most grounded human stories I've ever experienced. At no point does it make things easy - the light years-ahead facial capture technology used here isn't just a touch of polish, it's used to convey the characters' feelings with nuance and subtlety unprecedented in the medium. The story respects the player enough to never explicitly tell them what they're supposed to feel, and is mature enough to understand that the player doesn't always have to agree with what their character is doing.,,This truly is a once-in-a-generation presentation, from story to technology to gameplay, which is frankly another aspect of the game that is remarkably well done. With a story and setting this fleshed-out, personally I'd be OK with less than stellar gameplay. But they've expanded upon this as well, creating more traversal options for a more open world, combat areas with dozens of paths in every direction, AI that will surprise you when you take it for granted, and weapon/crafting systems that are as as slick and intuitive as ever. All this while maintaining great pacing, offering varied enemy encounters, puzzles, and exploration.,,This game really is the whole package. Can't recommended it enough, to be honest.
5136) Spoiler Free:,,The credits roll as I write this review. Teary eyed, exhausted but utterly impressed. One of my favorite narrative gaming experiences of all time. Wow.,,I avoided all reviews and spoilers so this brief review is honest and untainted by any preconceptions.,,A story of revenge, its consequences, the perpetual cycle of violence in a bleak, brutal world... and redemption.,,You are Ellie. You embark on a journey across Seattle, fueled by feelings of hate and retribution - you drag a long friends, share music and song, violence and death together.  Through this game you will feel love, hate, sadness, laughter, joy and glimmers of hope. The story and game play challenges the player beyond any entertainment medium has done for me, churned my emotions and made me empathize with characters I vowed I could not. At times I put away my controller in disgust, even stop playing to grasp some air before it pulled me back to continue.,,As the credits rolled, I just thought what a devastatingly beautiful, narrative tour de force.,,The game is and will forever be controversial and divisive. But to me, it stands tall and is currently my favorite narrative driven game. Play this game. Buy this game.
5137) All hate aside this game was fantastic. They left no stones unturned in the story and the game play was brutal. The entire experience was an improvement over the original. If there is any gripe it could be the games length because it is a long one. It took me 42 hours to complete with all the exploration.
5138) Amazing game, made me have a lot a different emotions, one of the best that I ever played for sure!
5139) A huge leap from the first game with intense gameplay and jaw dropping visuals. Tells a dark and controversial story that may not satisfy every player but personally, It had me in tears at the end. Must play
5140) The most beautiful and polished game with a good story. But normal difficulty will be too easy for an okay player.
5141) I have never written a review for a game before, but after completing TLOU2, I felt compelled to dispute the overwhelmingly negative reviews on this website,,First and foremost, I am a HUGE fan of the first game - I would rate it in my top 3 games of all time. I am a fan of storytelling games and narratives with an emotional punch, so getting to watch the dynamic between Joel and Ellie play out was an enormously satisfying experience. Like many, I was extremely disappointed to learn (from the leaks) about Joel's demise. However, I decided to give Naughty Dog the benefit of the doubt and I could not be happier that I did not listen to the all the negative criticism and left my evaluation until after experiencing the game for myself,,This game is a MASTERPIECE. Most of the reviewers who claim the story is terrible seem to nitpick at idiosyncratic elements of the game (Why is Abby so buff? How come Joel didn't know he was walking into a trap?) and have completely missed the greater theme of the narrative. Joel's death served as a key catalyst to drive a true emotional investment in Ellie's story. I felt deeply invested in her bloodlust and single-minded desire to extract revenge. But then Naughty Dog used multiple clever narrative tools to slowly change my - the player's - perception of Ellie's quest. Dinah and Lev served as foils to better illustrate the futility and cost of Ellie and Abby's actions. Abby - and her own story of loss and lack of purpose and agency - was the mirror coin to Ellie. In addition to humanizing the enemy, her story made me truly feel the horrific cost of Ellie's rampage. Even the gameplay itself served to exhaust the player, giving you little to no respite between fights, giving the NPCs names, making stealth kills brutal and gruesome.,,I have never played a game that made me feel almost exactly the same as the main character - first her loss, then her anger, then her pain and exhaustion, and finally, as she sat on the beach emotionally numb and drained, the emptiness from the futility of her pursuit of revenge as a way to fill the gap from her loss of agency. This is a story about a girl who had her purpose in life stolen away from her just as she was finding a new purpose in life, and the personal journey she had to take to realize that an endless cycle of violence would never plug that hole in her.,The journey I took with Ellie and Abby felt intensely personal, and although I still haven't recovered enough to fully understand and digest all my thoughts from this experience, I can say for a fact that I thoroughly enjoyed the process.  There are a hundred vanilla games out there where the story is straightforward and vanilla, and the hero gets to ride off into the sunset in the end, and if that's what you're looking for then yes, this game is NOT for you. But what is a story-driven video game really? It is a chance to live a life and immerse yourself in someone else's story, one that you could never experience in your own reality. To artificially experience feelings - revenge, anger, loss, triumph - that you can't conjure from your daily circumstance.,,If you want to LIVE a story, FEEL what the characters feel, and emerge from the other side better for it, then please do give this game a try.
5142) Through out its amazing storytelling, this game is so new and different that a gamer may not know how to truly appreciate the story and i think that's why many people end up not appreciating the whole game. The game is absolutely a masterpiece and i don't think i will ever see anything close to it.
5143) Spoilers! This game is fantastic. I have been playing video games for 25 years, and this is *THE* best game I have ever played. I was sceptical at the start of the second half of the game, when I started playing as Abby. I was like - "no way, I am not playing as this woman she is the enemy!!!" And then yes, I started to understand she has made choices and is human and is no more a villain than Ellie is. They are both as bad as each other. It did brake my heart that Ellie left Dina to chase down revenge again. I hated it. That's what makes it so good. I almost cried. It was perfect. Beautiful and painful. To all the negative reviewers - it's literally a game about the apocalypse. Of course it's miserable. And as to people going on about LGBT stuff - it's not shoved in your face. They barely even talk about it. It's just normal. Gays and trans are everywhere and have been for as long as humans have been alive. Stop being angry just cos your straight white guy isn't the hero for once
5144) The game is a masterpiece, graphics, remarkable gameplay and history, really a life lesson.
5145) Ok so ive seen a lot of people complain about this game. I just finished it as I work ungodly hours and the only small problem I can see with the game is the ending. Also yes of course Joel died we all knew that to begin with! Unfortunately no Ellie doesn't take her revenge on Abby which is unfortunate but the game and the story was absolutely brilliant from pillar to post. I don't get why people are hating on it but hey ho what's new there.
5146) You’ll never played a game like that! It’s greatest game I’ve ever seen, of course first part is better, but that’s perfectly continued first part!
5147) I played this game expecting a great story and was not disappointed. It's on par with the first game.
5148) To start I really questioning all the bad (0/10) user scores for this game. To disagree with story choices or “political agendas” isn’t enough to justify such a low score. A game consist of multiple elements and If you cannot judge/review based on more than 1 of these elements (Gameplay, Story, Graphics, Sound, etc.) then please consider to not review at all as it’s not very helpful to anyone. As a long time Naughty Dog fan I’m still blown away. This could very well be the best game I’ve ever experienced and it’s undoubtedly the best PS4 game as of yet and this is coming from someone that’s played games since the 80’s and well over 100 PS4 games to completion including all other AAA games that is considered the best of the bunch. This is a story heavy game and it’s playing with completely different questions and emotions to what you’ve normally come to expect from a game. You may not like it since it dare to challenge pretty much everything we’ve come to learn and feel up to this point in the story but it’s very difficult to question the quality of the story telling independent if you agree with the direction or not. Me personally understand and respect the choices they made and the gambling they obviously did. It’s much darker than the original The Last of Us with a lot of violence and gore but it’s also very fitting based on the revenge theme of this game. It’s not there for the sake of being there but to further explain the darkest sides of humanity. It plays and feel like a Naughty Dog game and if anything I would say it’s an improvement over last installments. The AI is the best I’ve witnessed in a video game and it’s also an excellent stealth game even judging by Metal Gear Solid standards.  It’s challenging (>=Moderate) without being frustrating and I never felt I was punished by the game or suffered failures due to anything but my own mistakes. The length of the game is longer than any of the other ND games and even though I prefer shorter and tighter games I never felt that it overstayed it’s visit. I’ve read a lot of debates about pushing feminist agendas but other than that I kept away from any spoilers or in detail reviews about the game, purely to have my own experience. I don’t agree with the critique related to politics and pushing agendas and if your whole world collapses if you witness anything HBTQ related, then I just feel sorry for you and the people around your black cloud. The graphics may very well be the best that is possible to achieve with current PS hardware and the sound design and music is a triumph as well. Everything that’s created is there to support the mood they want to achieve and according to me it hit all the right strings. If possible for you, then I recommend to use headphones while playing the game. This is a pure masterpiece and it got me to review my first ever game on Metacritic. 10/10 from Sweden.
5149) Categorically one of the best games of the year, if not all time. Such a beautiful game with so many different areas/sceneries to visit along the way. The way it was written was amazing.. pacing the action with the story at different intervals and interweaving a beautifully tragic narrative. They didn't have any other choice than to go down this path. If they kept Joel & Ellie as protagonists going forward, the game would be like any other game... boring, repetitive and almost a carbon copy of the last 20 years worth of action gaming narrative. What naughty dog has done is create a wonderful epic that I thoroughly enjoyed. Both the gameplay and storytelling is to be commended. I'm in awe!
5150) This game is a masterpiece, it doesn't get any better than this. The story gave me a complicated yet rewarding experience. If the Lord gave me a second chance to experience it as if it were the first time, I would do it all over again.
5151) The story, visuals, , graphics, gameplay, just about everything in this game is amazing! The attention to detail in this game is exquisite! One of the very few games that I have enjoyed so much that I just couldn't stop playing to the point my eyes were dead-shot red and people thought I was seriously sick and needed a hospital. It's something very small but the representation of the lgbt in this game was really cool. It's something so small and not the focus of the story but still enough that it was definitely seen and heard. Except for the build-up for Dina and Ellie's relationship in the beginning (which was a bare minimum) it's just casual and barely noticeable for the rest of the game that there's anything more going on. The way they brought in without overdoing it was on point. If anyone thinks they did overdo it they were focused on the wrong thing during the game, I can tell you that! The story on it's own was very well written and played out. It really got you wanting more each minute you're in the game. I was on the edge of my seat the whole time. Maybe the only note that I have is the ending, Ellie leaving her family behind to chase down Abby to let her go in the end seemed a bit of a waste, though there's indication that Dina went back to Jackson and you can see Ellie leaving the house as well, probably going after her. For me, this is the perfect way to end the franchise although I wouldn't be opposed to another game. All in all, the game was worth the wait all these years.
5152) Just finished it today after 19h. By far the best game I’ve ever played. Thank you Naughty Dog!
5153) Unlike most, I did not spoil the game by reading/watching spoilers. Going in blind.,This game is by far one of the best Games I’ve played.
5154) (I tried posting this after I beat it on June 23, but I always got an error message, so I don't know if it posted.),,This is an honest review after having actually beaten the game unlike most user reviews.,,The original Last of Us isn't my favorite game of all time, but it's definitely in the top 15 or so. While playing through Part II, I often asked myself which game I liked more. Even now, it's still hard to decide.,,That's because, as someone who managed to avoid all leaks and spoilers before playing the sequel, I loved my time with both games. Part II in particular was so gripping that I was glued to my controller almost nonstop and often kept playing until at least 5am. If I wasn't playing, I thought about playing and wanted to know what would happen next.,,Most reviews start with graphics and sound; but while they're both phenomenal, I'll start with what is for most people the most important part of the game: the gameplay. Most of what you do in this game involves combat, exploration, scavenging, crafting, and environmental puzzle solving. All of these elements work well, with various little improvements over the first game such as enhanced mobility, Ellie having a permanent knife, and dodging. There were several navigation puzzles and safe combinations that were satisfying to solve, which I did without ever looking up the solutions online. The combat is visceral and dynamic on hard, which is the difficulty I recommend for a first playthrough if you've played the first one, which you should anyway for the plot.,,Which brings me to the next section, which has been the most controversial. The story in the game is definitely heavy, emotional, and not told in a linear way. Those who had the plot ruined with spoilers and leaks probably judged it without context before playing, and/or it was difficult to experience it in the game without the negativity associated with the leaks. The following is probably controversial in itself, but I actually liked the plot and how it was told. Without spoiling anything, the game takes big risks rather than playing it overly safe. Its handling of Abby is something that I don't remember any other game doing like this. There were several moments in which I was genuinely shocked but interested to see how things would play out. It's refreshing for events to be so unpredictable, which is possible for those who haven't had everything spoiled.,,The game overall has a nice flow. You'll find yourself in closed spaces, in open spaces, indoors, outdoors, at varying times of day, in multiple climates, and with different weather effects. You'll face combinations of human enemies of different factions and infected enemies. There are happy, sad, calm, and tense moments. The shifts in environments, enemies, emotion, combat, exploration, and puzzle solving keep things mostly fresh.,,As I mentioned before, the graphics and sound are amazing. I probably took over a hundred screenshots of the game while playing. I often found myself amazed by the lighting, animations, and environmental design. I often stopped to take in the details of every living space more than I normally do in games. I read every note and thought about the characters who lived and died there. One complaint here is that the camera tends to automatically move in camera mode; but otherwise it has a ton of features including filters and various sliders.,,Altogether, the various elements of this game come together to create an emotional but amazing experience. I've started a second playthrough and look forward to a third game in the series. There are a few nitpicks here and there; but to dismiss the rest of the game just because of one or two plot points is, in my opinion, unjustified.,,Pros:,• Breathtaking graphics and animations,• High-quality sound effects and voices,• Tense, dynamic combat,• Tons of optional exploration with resources and lore to find,• Satisfying puzzles that aren't too difficult,• Memorable characters,• Emotional moments,• Great level design,• An Encounters mode that lets you jump into combat from the main menu,• Tons of accessibility and other options,• Full voice acting for Spanish, French, and Portuguese,• Usually quick load times after dying,• The Chapters menu option shows how many of each collectible you found,• Unlockable 3D models with hair physics,,Cons:,• No cutscene viewer,• Glitchy cutscenes that seem to be skippy or show an in-game view for at least a frame or two,• The camera sometimes moves on its own in camera mode,• There could've been a few more unlockables, such as outfits, a horde or challenge mode, and/or an in-game soundtrack,,Final score: 9.8 (rounded up to 10 here)
5155) Game is good and that is from someone who actually enjoyed the first game and got attached to botj Joel and Ellie. The thing about this game is it doesn't have enough mature audience and as a result, sees the whole game as this one scene of a beloved character death without even considering why it happened in the first place. I think the world design is superb and actually improved from previous Naughty Dog titles. People just really need to try playing with an open mind because the world of The Last of Us is not a world of happy endings and fantasies. One downside I guess is there were unnecessary scenes that didn't quite impress me but overall, it really is a nice game. Art is not meant to please everybody and I think Naughty Dog won't impress everyone at this point, but for a major developer to have this courage in storytelling and game design, I gotta give them a 10.
5156) These retards review bomb the **** out of this game for dumb reasons. 0/10? Are you **** kidding me? You don't like the story, I get it, but a zero? This game is a masterpiece for me.
5157) I don’t usually take my time to write a proper review, but seeing this hate bandwagon made me realize there are a lot of people who have nothing to do in life so they **** on art they don’t enjoy (which is fine if they don’t like), but that’s not the case for most people giving 0’s to this game a couple of hours after the game came out (the game, I reiterate, is about 18-30h long.,But moving on to my honest opinion about this game in particular: I think the characters really stood out to me. As in any Naughty Dog game, this one is also very character-driven. Ultimately, this is a story about revenge, hate, and violence, but also about redemption and forgiveness. Yes, I agree that this theme has been heavily used in every entertainment medium, but they rarely do it justice. I can happily say that The Last Of Us Part II has not did justice to the theme itself, but also did stay true to the world, the character development, and the hidden symbology behind this perfectly crafted cyclic narrative (which I will not spoil, but it has to do with the ending itself). All the narrative beats fit perfectly with each other, and it always brings other elements of surprise, right when you think you know what to expect for the ending, another story beat hits you in the face and changes your perspective. Also, you should never go to part II expecting the same thing you experienced in part I. Although that same feeling can be felt through other types of relationships, and some perfect flashbacks, the first one is very different from the second one. Lastly, I just want to say that I think this game will not only define how we all experience video games in the future, but also define how they are engineered, thought, and its story will be discussed and debated for many years to come, just like we did for the first one.,,PS: Don’t be the dick who gives 0’s without experiencing it.
5158) There seems to be some sort of smear campaign against this game. Its phenomenal and roughly 70% of its negative reviews were written just hours after its release. This game delivers on what you want. I has hard hitting story, improved battle mechanics, innovative gameplay. So much of my time with this game was spent in awe of how far it surpasses the ability of the original. Worth the play, the heartache, and the 60 dollar price tag. Ill be replaying this for years to come. Best game ive played in years.
5159) I don't get why are people so mad at this game. Yea I get that first game had a much better story but TLOU 2 is not that bad. People are complaining that Joels death was stupid but you need to know that this is not a Disney movie and in this world **** like that just happens. And there are also a lot of bunch of spoiled kids that are giving such a negative review only because they have expected to get same thing that TLOU gave us and Im really glad that they have decided to do something different. Have a nice day!
5160) Great game, i dont know where the bad reviews come from. I like the story very much and it wouldnt work if some decisions were not made. Even if not everyone likes them.
5161) I played Last of Us 1 on launch and never wanted a sequel. I was so afraid that they would mess up one of my favorite endings in gaming. I could not be happier with the sequel we got. It did everything I wanted it to and more. I have some small gameplay nitpicks such as being unable to switch camera shoulders outside of ADS and being forced to take some skills I wasn't going to use, but as a whole, I think they improved the gameplay of the first game in every way. The combat is brutal and shocking, the infected are terrifying, and scavenging is still rewarded with mini in-universe stories and bits of exposition that really heighten the experience.,,The story is incredible in my opinion. It is emotionally devastating and not easy, but very satisfying and really carry over the themes from the first game quite well. There are some small changes that I would make to the story as well just to help with pacing and unity but even these are minor.,,I did not see any of the negative reactions until after I had finished the game and I am so grateful I stayed away because much of the criticism seems in really bad faith to me. I think that there absolutely can be plenty of good conversations about what this game did well and where it fell short but unfortunately any discussion of this game is hijacked by bad actors and bandwagon haters.,,My recommendation is that you play the game for yourself, ignore anything anyone else says, including me and make up your own opinion.
5162) 4.9 user score? Really? Are you stupid or dumb? The Last of Us Part II is a great game, maybe the people giving such a low score (rat boys giving a complete 0 for **** sake) should stay playing Fortnite, FIFA or some **** like that.  Play the damn game and enjoyed cause it´s worth every damn second.
5163) The REAL genius of this game is that the people most pissed about Joel dying are outraged FOR THE SAME REASON JOEL DID WHAT GOT HIM KILLED. They are self-centered, entitled men who went to toxic lengths to to reject the story they were told for the one in their heads, and are happy to COMPLETELY disregard the bigger picture of this world to play the hero. Shame there aren't enough golf clubs for all the haters. Heart broke for Ellie, Tommy, Dina, Jackson...but I also **** LOVE Abby & Lev. When she turned around to save those two kids, after after losing almost everything....I felt the same way I felt with Joel after the ranch house in 1. This game is about what is the last we have to give before there is no more of you left...and what it says about you. If you didn't get it, you weren't supposed to.
5164) Seriously amazing! I’m really annoyed how many people are talking smack. The game is very long and worth every minute. Everything has been improved and the graphics and gameplay is flawless. People are getting upset over stupid things. The first game was really dark and disturbing did you not think this one would be too?!? I played the first run exploring a lot and it took me 30-40 hours. I feel like it’s double the length and exploration as the original. There are some drastic changes but once again, get over it! It’s a sequel! They spent so much time and energy into this amazon game, rating it 1 or 2 out of 10 is seriously just petty and ignorant. The game director even said this game will divide the fans. Please have an open mind and play this masterpiece!
5165) Great ending, it leaves you with  a very good feeling, sad i have to say but makes you "understand" why abby did what she did and how for the Ellie´s crusade she lost everything. It was a rain of sensations, sometimes you was sad, others happy. Joel dont die like a hero because he isnt, taking Ellie and killing the doctors was an act of selfishness and thats someting that the game tells you
5166) I don’t even think it’s a 10, but it sure as hell isn’t a 4.9 just because your expectations were subverted. Naughty Dog once again tells a BRILLIANT story in such a raw, powerful manner. The “twist” at the halfway point may throw you for a loop, but if anything it makes the game BETTER even if it doesn’t cater to fan demands.
5167) This is an incredible game - graphics, gameplay, story, characters. Gamers™ mad tho
5168) One of the best games i've ever played, it got really deep into my heart, I don't know how many games could've done this, for all those people who haven't played it yet, I strongly recommend you this one.
5169) Potentially the best game ever made. It wasn't just a game, it felt like an experience. The moments where you hate and despise a character one moment, to completely understanding their motivations the next.,,The motivations of the characters and their 'I am right' attitude and their aims for revenge is like nothing else I've ever experienced in a game, in places the game feels like more than just a game, it feels like a combination of everything that is good about movies, or how books can delve into characters back stories in much more depth, plus the things you can only do in a video game to make something really important that raises the bar (just like they did with the first game) to make a completely unforgettable experience.,,It's a shame that user reviews are so low due to people being unable to accept the incredible and extremely ambitious story Naughty Dog set out to tell and seemingly can't accept that the fate of certain characters was destined to end the way they did.
5170) Amazing gameplay and good story
5171) Brilliant. Violent. emotional. This game will make you cry from start to finish.
5172) A to me misunderstood game, I think the main point people fall on is not seeing the bigger picture while also understanding why characters did what they did. If you as a player is able to go deeper and want a game that is gruesome at times but also shows regret and forgiveness against anything, I think you would enjoy this. Also of course the game is beautifully crafted, with the scenery and light .
5173) A complete masterpiece, no matter what trolls say.,,Graphics are superb. The best in any console nowadays.,Same about gameplay. The variety of combined methods of attacking and approaching to the enemies are the best you will see on any game right now.,The quantity and quality of the animations are by far, the best you can find in any other game.,The story is perfectly driven, regardless if you like it or dislike it or don't like how it ends and is also by far, the most immersive of any actual game.,,But in the case you're not ok with the story, you must be a complete troll or hater to give this game a score below 7, because there's no possible discussion this game is absolutely astonishing in all the other areas.,,So just applying common sense, if you have a game with a 10 in 3 of 4 areas, even if the story for you score zero, the average will be 7,5.,,Having say that, people given this game scores from zeros to fours are complete nonsense.
5174) This game was simply underestimated, but I agree that Abby is really a boring character, and we play too much for her, but still I have never been so influenced by the game, I was even sad about the ending for about a week
5175) Just fantastic!! The people who didnt like the game are homophobic!! This is one of the best games of this generation!
5176) believe me, it's the best game i've ever played in my life by far!,just don't judge it in first hours and play it to the end.,thanks Sony, noughty dog and neil druckmann for this awesome game!,I can't imagine what's it gonna be like, when this genius guys start to release a game on PS5! wish you the best of luck, keep up the good work
5177) One of the best games of the Ps4 great history, mechanic and great mensagge
5178) Gameplay 10/10,Characters 10/10,Story 11/10,Very good game, I’d say better than the first one
5179) Fantastic game. Dont let the negative comments ruin this for you. Keep an open mind and just enjoy. After all it’s a video game.
5180) One of the best games I have ever played. **** the haters. The is one of the best games of all time.
5181) this game is revolucionary in so many ways people will only grasp in years to come. masterpiece!
5182) I subscribe to the idea that imperfect games can score a 10. There are certainly minor flaws here - occasionally dumb AI, gating sometimes inhibiting exploration, etc, but the incredible writing, acting, gameplay, and storytelling vastly overshadow the flaws. This game is a masterpiece and a faithful, innovative evolution from the first game. I have rarely been so drawn into a game’s world and discussed its themes and storytelling in such depth. Hats off to Naughty Dog.
5183) Perfect score for an awesome game. This review serves also as an inverse review bomb.
5184) the negative comments here are a joke, clearly many of them didn’t even play the game to say that the gameplay is bad, you can even understand who didn’t like the ending, now say that the gameplay is bad, you’re kidding, the game overcame everything to the former in terms of mechanics in the game, it is sad to see that nowadays many people are left with their prejudice simply because Ellie is gay and ignored the rest, it is sad, but even with that the game was still brilliant, a of the most complex stories I saw in games, in my opinion it surpassed the first game, I expected a standard story with everyone leaving happy in the end as it is every game, but this one surprised too positively for some and negative for others, that's debatable, but for me, I liked it a lot, I recommend it too much.
5185) Dont know why this **** hate the game, story is good, That ending on abby's storyline gives me chills dudeeeeeee! But the ending, a little bit unsatisfying. I hope tommy died tho, dont like him.
5186) Not as bad as i expected, GJ naughty dog. The characters were great, Joel's death definitely hurt me quite a bit, but i still liked it
5187) Great game. Cant stop thinking about after finishing it. Highly recommended.
5188) Play the game and come to your own conclusions, do not trust any reviews. It is actually such a excellent game, worthy of being a sequel to the first. The characters, the story, the visuals, the music, the mood, all of it is just perfect. The story is really about revenge, one person wants to get revenge against Joel, the other wants to get revenge for Joel. In the end, this game is a fantastic symbol for how violence drives the human mind. All of this culminates into an ending that is driven by heart, passion, and Ellie’s love and respect for Joel.
5189) One of the best games of this generation so far. The story is excellent, the ending is brilliant! The combat is excellent too.,I don't understand why this game is receiving so many negative reviews. Again, one of the best games of this generation,GOTY 10/10
5190) Awesome game! Graphics, storytelling, and gameplay is fire. Also i like, that game keeps part 1 atmosphere. Huge fan - 10/10.
5191) Gameplay and storytelling that is unmatched in the AAA video game space. Great job naughty dog.
5192) This is an emotional Rollercoaster. From all the people hating on it are people that can't handle it and if people gets effected emotionally over a game. Then the studio is doing something right. Over all I went in this game with an open mind and not spoiling anything for me until I finished. Its a great upgrade in the gameplay. The visual is fantastic, you had a great understanding on both sides, but in the end it's how the gamer feels after its all done.
5193) Wow what a game , I know this game gets a lot of Critism for making half the game about Abby but I personally loved it I grew to love Abby and at the end I blew a sigh of relief that I saved her , mind blowing graphics , well written and played out story great characters and whilst I don’t think it is quite as good as the first still a must play game!!!
5194) Don’t understand ignorant people who HAVENT EVEN PLAYED THE GAME rate this so low because of one or two spoilers. So frustrating. This game is fantastic. Get over yourselves and show some respect to the developers who know the characters way more than you do, and poured their heart and soul into making a provoking story.
5195) In my opinion the best written game so far. Graphics are on the peak of this gen. Also I liked how the story is playing with your feelings. Never seen a game that did this to me. Definitely looking forward for part 3
5196) The only problem with the game is that it's longer than what it should have been. Other than that it's great, I don't have any problem with the story. in my opinion Joel made the wrong decision at the end of first game, and the second game is the consequence of his actions. People made a hero out of Joel and I see many people couldn't even tell Joel lied to Ellie some of my friends included.,Angry Joe for example goes as far as saying making a vaccine was not 100% but such thing is not mentioned anywhere in the story.,My real score is 9/10 but can't do that since people who haven't even played the game are review bombing it with 0s.
5197) Incredible game. Heartbreaking, terrifying, beautiful, incredibly ugly, and very very sad.,,This game has chewed me up in ways that not many things have. I finished it three days ago and i can't stop thinking about it.,,Is it perfect? No. Nothing is. but what the Last of Us Part 2 is is a daring and challenging exploration of vengeance and its cost.
5198) Best game i’ve ever played. Honestly. Never felt so touched by the story of a game. Don‘t believe the leaks! Play it!
5199) The best game ever. Maybe it's not what we want, not the path we think the story will follow, but Naughty Dog created a masterpiece, running way from the cliche, telling us the story in a unique way. The gameplay is perfect, character creation and development always the best, this is the game the world's most need in a moment like this. Thanks for this piece of art!
5200) This game tries to teach the same as the first part, perspective. That there is no good or bad objectively, not everyone wins or everyone loses either, only shows persecution even in a painful way.
5201) This game is an entirely unique Expierience. You feel the things that the characters feel. Things like disgust, rage, nausea, and sometimes joy. The story is the most sophisticated and symbolic I’ve ever seen. The gameplay is dense, strategic, and intense. The acting is some of the best I’ve ever seen. Just know going in that this isn’t a journey for the faint of heart or biased.
5202) Amazing gameplay, story and world. Naughty Dog does it again! Can’t wait for them to add multiplayer!
5203) Pretty much on the same level as the first one. Don't listen to the haters.
5204) One of the best games I’ve ever played! And for now I think it’s my favorite.
5205) It's not the story I was expecting, but the characters and situations they are put in that are introduced here made this into a sequel that lives up to the first. It's not necessarily a better game than the first one story wise, but the visuals and extra little insensitives to explore and find collectibles from previously dead people and reading their story really widens the scope on the last of us universe. While I don't agree with every decision made in this game I feel like it's worthy of the last of us name and not all the hate it's been getting.
5206) Revenge and the endless violent circle of consequences are the driving forces of this game, and it’s what makes the story of The Last of Us Part 2 so interesting. I really enjoyed this game, and even though it’s not perfect and some of the choices leave you scratching your head at times, I think that in the end, it all pays off in an impactful way. If I have to compare it to the first game, the gameplay in Part 2 is far superior then the first. Its fun, heart-pounding, and challenging throughout. Story-wise, the first game is a tighter narrative that is very focused on the relationship between Joel and Ellie and how even in the darkness of the world they live in, there is still light to be found. Part two is a natural transition because of the actions of Joel in the first game. Part 2 is about the pain of loss and how hatred consumes people; how two sides of an issue can find themselves to be both victims and offenders. How an eye for an eye begets more violence. It’s a tough and uncomfortable story, but that’s the point. Narratively, both of the Last of Us games are one larger story that makes sense as a whole. There are things that I think could have been done to tighten the story up and make it more compelling, but to me, what was done works, and it’s definitely a title I’m planning on playing again.
5207) An amazing work by Naughty dog, Better gameplay than the first game, and the history... Nowadays when everything is fan service and stories told under the same formula, we should be grateful for the existence of games like this one, where despite having the path made to succeed, this is ART
5208) i've played games about 20-25 years this game i thought was fantastic because its human nature at its finest. two sides to every story. the story was good again it's how people would react .we talk about bringing characters to life what better way than this. they acted exactly how ANY person would act if put in there shoes yes Joel deserved a better death but it's was excellent as to why abby did it .i honestly don't know what else to say other than i really REALLY enjoyed it .hell Abby even became my most favourite character by the end. that's my personal opinions 10/10 not for the game but it's realism as to human actions .which is how i think they want you to look at it two sides to every story Ying and Yang
5209) it must be mandatory to link the account of the platform we play, to guarantee a true opinion. The game is spectacular, excellent graphics, everything has been improved, the story is excellent, just keep an open mind.
5210) Great game that really plays with your emotions and made me feel conflicted about character’s decisions. Gameplay is fantastic and improves upon the first one.
5211) The best PS4 game I ever played. I totally dont get the hate. Very depressing and dark story, which is exactly what makes a game/movie special in my opinion. I would definitely play it again.
5212) Fantastic game! It tells a very different type of story than the original but does so in a masterful way. The game makes you feel and sympathize with characters I never thought I would of. On top of that the game play is a massive improvement from the first
5213) Great game with a conversational story. Fantastic characters, amazing animation. Highly recommended.
5214) Game was great. I'm telling you to buy the game and play it so we can have a possibility to have a third game and I would love to play the third game one day if it happened obviously.
5215) A game not really about revenge, but guilt, the cycles of violence, and forgiveness. It not only challenges your preconceived notions of what is true or not, but more or less tests your capabilities for empathy. There is no game like it and even a week after completing the game, it’s emotional toll on me is still present. Plainly put: a masterpiece.
5216) I couldn’t get enough this game has so much to offer it’s extremely long but worth playing.  The way you play as both Ellie and Abby really shows the complexity of human beings, and how far one will go for revenge.  I think Dina should’ve stayed with Ellie but I don’t blame her since Ellie went off to find Abby again but ended up losing both Dina and two of her fingers it’s a bittersweet ending please play this game I’m sure you’ll love it I know I did, and the graphics are top notch honestly mind blowing so realistic, and baby JJ is the cutest baby I wish I could actually hold him in real life lol
5217) I love this game best writing work after RDR2 BRAVO! I love the characters, and the story, the animation, the music, this is a MASTERPIECE!
5218) Love the story and all the characters but it's so sad to read on the internet that people can't recognise the greatness of this story cause they want to play somebody in specific or they hate LGBTQ members or they just want another John wick classic type of clichè story. Graphics are amazing the gameplay too and as the first the last of us set a benchmark for the generation on ps4 storydriven games this game will set the standards for the generation on ps5. From great powers comes great responsabilities then Neil Druckmann and all NaughtyDog decide to push forward the meaning of videogame as an interactive medium with themes and connections between other medium like comics movies and music that has been just barely touched in indie games and never in AAA games in this deep way. The only negative thing that i'm a little sad about is that the public wasn't ready for such a brave change and because of this we can't all share the impressions and the love that such a great storyline and character development deserves because the vast majority of people that are playing videogames are just a bunch of ignorant babies and fanboys/groupies for characters but i guess that if you sold 4 millions copies in 3 days is fair that some people will be offended and will spread just hate. Thanks for changing my perspective about videogames once again!
5219) Best graphics of this generation. Amazing gameplay and one of the best game stories!
5220) Even if the story isn´t the way we expected after watching the trailers or replaying the incredible first part, The Last of Us Part II is an amazing game. The graphics, details, facial expressions and just everything is very polished. Even if the gameplay is very similar to the first one, the improvements on the AI makes it a different and more interesting challenge. As I´ve seen, the story,  the decision of making almost half of the game to be played as Abby and the ending are the most disliked parts by players. But I really don´t think those decisions are bad, they make you experience the game from a new perspective to show you that there is no villain or hero in this world, just people trying to survive and hoping their loved ones survive as well.,My only "complaint" would be that I think Abby´s part sometimes felt a little dragged and some of the characters in her side of the story weren´t really memorable, but nothing too bad or excessive, I think the ending was justified and a good way to end this story, even if it clearly isn´t a happy ending or anything close to it, since Ellie´s ending is absolutely hearth-breaking.,This game was truly an emotional rollercoaster, filled with amazing and emotional moments that will be in my mind for a long time, as this just became one of my favorite games of all time.,,Naughty dog really didn´t lie when they said that some players would love the game and other would hate it. I guess the best way to find out i trying it out for yourself ad making your own opinion about it.
5221) The Last of Us Part II is a game that, just like it's predecessor, pushes the boundaries for story driven video games. It is very unique and shows no fear. The gameplay is slick and fluid, powerful and addicting. The story is mind blowing and is unlike anything I've ever played before. I haven't enjoyed a game this much since Red Dead Redemption II. A masterclass, and partially just Naughty Dog showing off.
5222) Amazing game if you have a brain and understand the story beyond ur favourite character.
5223) Don’t listen to the beta male haters of this game. They made it their mission to review bomb a game that most of them didn’t even play. They watched the spoilers and got butt hurt that Joel died. And their homophobic lgbtq nonsense just adds to their lack of any kind of meaningful insight to the game. That being said, this game is amazing. If you loved the first game and fully understood its themes, you’ll love this game. It’s beautifully done. Not only the graphics, music and gameplay, but also the story. This game will make you truly “feel” what’s going on inside these characters. I was fully ready to hate Abby for what she did to Joel. But after completing this game, I grew to understand why she did what she did. And although I wish I still would’ve had the option to kill her, I understand why ND wrote the story in this way. Abby arguably lost more than Ellie ever did. Abbys story is essentially the same as Ellie’s, just from her own perspective. Joel deserved to die. If you truly believe that Ellie deserved vengeance, than you can’t logically think that Abby should’ve been denied hers. Abby spent 4 years training for her mission to find Joel, and it shows in her physique. Much like an MMA fighter. Again, my only regret is not getting the option to kill Abby. Although ND made me empathize with her, I’ll always be loyal first to Joel and Ellie.
5224) Amazing game. it's dark but that's the kind of game it is.,Graphics 10/10,Story 10/10,Gameplay 10/10,Good job, Naughty Dog!
5225) Easily the best game I've ever played. Stunning technical aspect, great gameplay and phenomenal story.
5226) A really good game. Not as good an tight as the first one but gameplaywise it is so much better.,Normally i would give this a 8/10 but because there is so much reviewbombing i give it a 10
5227) The Last of Us is truly one of the greatest games and greatest stories ever crafted.,It’s sequel does not disappoint.,Look, I’m not gonna beat around the bush and give you some mealy mouthed critique. Everything from the plot and story structure to the gameplay and world are absolutely masterfully intertwined. The more you dig into this title the more and more depth complexity and thought to every single detail and decision you’ll find. It may well be what no one expects wants or even excepts. But it is every ounce the narrative and character masterpiece of its predecessor.,This is the next chapter of the story. This is what happens. Quite possibly the unabashed unapologetic end. For better and for worse. Love it or hate it.,As they say in game, “You can’t stop this.”
5228) Astonishing graphics, hyper violent manhunt like combat, awesome infected and also a deep and nihilistic view into the repeated cycles of revenge and brutality.
5229) People giving 0/10 are just downright absurd. If you loved the first game you will love the second. One of the best PS4 games ever.
5230) I've been waiting for this game for a good while, like most fans of the series, but after seeing all these negative user reviews, I have to wonder how many "fans" actually played the first game. Did they not understand the gravity of the story and how it ended?,,I remember feeling an insane weight from the impact of the original game, and after my first few hours of playing the long-awaited sequel, I was torn apart emotionally. Every beat in the story, right from the get-go, is rather painful from an empathetic point of view. I felt every emotion, every action that carried echoes of past trauma... I just can't understand why people who claimed to enjoy the heart-wrenching storyline of the first game suddenly expected the sequel to be a light-hearted romp that held their hand with easy to process views like "good guys good, bad guys bad, zombies scary but it's all gonna be ok.",,Even the harshest reviewers seem to give credit where it's obviously due, so I'll start with the easy part: The graphics are truly amazing and the atmosphere and environments are riveting. The world is so large, and the cinematic cohesion between gameplay and cutscene takes you out of the feeling of playing a game and puts you in the mindset of losing yourself inside another world. The thing is, it's a scary world, and the most terrifying thing about it is the realism. The constant hunt for ammo and supplies keeps you on your toes, making every fight feel like life or death, as it should. The sound design is spectacular and disgusting. Every wail and click from the undead sounds like the most pained and godless noise a human body could make, while the meaty crunches of humans being shot, exploded, or maimed to death really hit you with the impact of a life being ended violently. The bits of lore spread throughout the environment in the form of handwritten letters, graffiti, and NPC dialogue really draws you in, and you start to realize... this world is so believable because it's barren hellscape is so familiar to our own.,,Disease, prejudice, hatred, revenge, forgiveness, justice... all the themes imbedded in this game mirror our current reality in a way that is frightening, and may be too much for some players looking for an escape into fantasy, but I found it's ability to challenge the player's viewpoints of right and wrong were incredibly bold and aren't utilized in storytelling too frequently because of the risk of upsetting people.,,I decided to write a spoiler-free review, because I feel like most of the people who are being turned away from this game are being mislead. It's not an easy story to process, but the fact that so many people disagree with the choices made makes it feel like a real story, instead of a fan-fiction made to sell copies.,,My biggest praise towards the game is the way the story develops characters to the point where they truly feel like real people. In reality, people make drastic choices when acting on emotions. In the first game, we see a man get a second chance at raising a daughter, slowly opening his apocalypse-stained heart back up to be able to feel unconditional love in a way he hasn't since his family was torn away from him. In the end, he has to make the choice to sacrifice her to save mankind... and he can't do it. He instead chooses to sacrifice mankind. He's strong enough to take on the whole world, but not strong enough to sacrifice the one who has become his whole world. This game immediately starts to show you the consequences of that choice.,,The themes of this game really hit you with the fact that for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. But, when feelings of love, vengeance, anger, and a self-righteous sense of justice are involved, a hundred reactions feel justified by one done against you. There are a handful of different factions in the game, and all of them believe they are fighting for what is right, and inside those factions are individuals with confused loyalties. When it's all broken down, you see that each character builds their own family, and will go against everything they know to protect them or avenge them.,,If you play this game, at every twist and turn you will be faced with the crushing reality that every single person has incredible potential for good and evil, and it's all subjective. Everyone is on their own righteous quest, and is the hero of their own narrative.,All love will eventually be lost.,All life will eventually die.,All morality will eventually be tested.,The Last Of Us explores not only the idea of what might happen to the last of mankind, but what might happen to the last of our humanity.,,But it made me cry, so 0/10, me me want shoot bad guys
5231) This game is a masterpiece and a must buy if you own a PS4. I can't promise that everyone who plays The Last Of Us Part 2 will love it as the game has proved to be very divisive, however I have found the game to defy every expectation I held. The story is a truly bitter, despondent and horrifying revenge tale that builds engaging characters only to tear them apart and put them through utter hardship. Emotional trauma, grief, moral redemption, violence and vengeance are all themes encompassed by the nuisanced story.,,Furthermore, the story is enhanced by gruesome, nasty gameplay that is weighty and down-to-earth. Each bullet feels powerful and destructive, and the brilliant display of gore with each headshot only accentuates the force behind each shot. The player can choose to sneak past enemies, pick them off with deadly precision or to rush headfirst into enemies and engage in gunfight. No matter which playstyle you prefer, each is made viable through the diverse range of weapons and trinkets at your disposal.,,Wyoming, Seattle and the other locations which the player visits throughout the games 25 hour run-time are intricately animated. The breathtaking visuals are not only pure eycandy, but each location is also geographically accurate and mirrors its real life counterpart. It is awesome witnessing the decay of manmade infrastructure as nature restores itself throughout the city and pervades each building. However, there is a dramatic change in scenery with each level, giving each encounter it's own style and mood. For example, in one mission Ellie will be exploring the dank, and creepy, underground subway that is now host to deranged and grotesque Infected, however in the next level our heroine will be wading through the swampy marsh of what was once a freeway.,,SUMMARY - The Last Of Us Part 2 is a fantastic game with a heartbreaking story, breathtaking visuals and horrifying gameplay. Naughty Dog have sustained their position as a top-tier video game developer with this installement in the TLOU franchise, and although there seems to be many games coming later this year from promising developers, I struggle to see how they could match the brilliance of this masterpiece.
5232) This game is a masterpiece and the leak destroyed it.,I don't want to go into too much detail about the graphics, the world or the stunning level of detail, because literally every area, every shot, every plant in post - apocalyptic Seattle feels unreal. This game is something else. I bet in at least a year on from now people will upload Yt - vids like: TLOU2 , better than you think" or something like that.,It is the leak that ruined the *hype* around this game, but not the game per se. At this point, I would like to mention, that a lot of the spoilers and rumors I heard prior to the release were straigth up fake.,To 100% confirm this: Ellie doesn't die, Abby is not transsexual, you do play as the killer of Joel in this game but the way this sentence is formed is simply flawed. When I heard about playing as Abby, I thought that the player has to kill of Joel, which, surprise surprise, is simply not the case. The story is absolutely beautiful, brutal when it needs to be and the epitome of bittersweet. There is not one other game I can think of, that made me feel the way i felt during the credits. Mesmerizing.,My main problem are the people that simply won't play the game because of the leak, or who hate it, but for the wrong reasons.,I've seen more than enough "Joel died, so I won't play this game"  - arguments prior and after the release. Well ok, Joel was definitely a great character, but his death is ... natural in a *post - apocalyptic* world. Whenever I hear something like that, I like ot think of the prequel. Who was the villain in TLOU1? Was is Tess, Bill, Sam, Joel, the fireflies? No, there was no villain, just like there was no true "hero".,In addition to Joel's death, there are a lot of people upset of Ellie not killing Abby in their last showdown. But again, why should she? Because she travelled aaaall the way to California to kill her? Remember in the first game, where Ellie and Joel travel across the entire continent, just to get to the fireflies and Joel NOT wanting to sacrifice Ellie for a cure, which was his original mission after all?,"Abby is buff, I do not like it". Again, post - apocalyptic world, where you fight for your survival + living in a military - esque group with a ton of resources + wanting to take revenge so much so, that you sacrifice an idyllic life with the love of your life makes your pretty buff I guess.,"Ellie should have killed her, because she definitely could not let go of Joel" - I think it is pretty evident, that Joel wanted only the best for Ellie, there is no room for arguments here. But this also includes letting go. Do you think Joel would be happy with his life, if he had never let go of Sarah? No. The same thing goes for Ellie and Abby.,"The message of this game is way to obvious, revenge is bad". Is it though? I did not get this impression (actually, I did, but I would not consider this the main message). For me, TLOU2 was about growth. Sometimes, this growth manifests itself in emotional maturity (letting go), sometimes in physical improvements ("the buff lady scares me"). Revenge definitely plays a major part in the game, but it is not the only message this game tries to convey, by far not the only one. With the hatred that both of them experience, they become way to hardheaded, only focused on their plans and motifs, while ignoring the people around them. (Kinda like those people who did not actually play this game, but still write reviews because they heard it sucks).,"Playing as Abby is dumb" - It is pretty clear, that they are both sides of one and the same coin, so why not try to embrace her story aswell? She lost her father, the love of her life, a partner, a pregrant friend and also a dog. She has every right to feel the way she feels and her wanting to kill Joel is not "stupid", it is what the first game taught us, quite literally: You kill in order to preserve what you love.,If you did not like the game, that is absolutely fine. But to trash it with garbage arguments is simply wrong. It is very polarizing, ND definitely created SOMETHING here. But this something is the best thing I have experienced in a looong time from an industry that is notorious for in - game purchases while still demanind 60 to 70 bucks for the "whole" game, pumping out sequel after sequel of the same, god damn game every **** year, and relatively poor story writing (i.e. everything is black and white) for the majority of games.,TLOU2 is a breath of fresh air, that demands YOU to think a little bit about your actions and consequences, while still delivering a solid combat and stealth system, a more than brilliant performance from the actors (especially Ashley Jenkins, who portrayed Ellie so amazingly) and a game that makes you FEEL something.,This game is definitely game of the PS4 - generation.,(Sorry for any mistakes, am a non - native)
5233) WOW! Thank you Naughty Dog,The Last of US PART II is a MASTERPIECE.,,Had doubts because of people complaining about the leaks.,But GAME OF THE YEAR for me!,,Just tried it yourself.
5234) Incredible! Naughty dog have overperformed themselves! Must be the game of the year!
5235) A landmark title that will be studied for years to come. Have an open mind and put your thinking cap on. This one is going to hurt.
5236) So good. Make you cry alot. Great gameplay loop, amazing story a must play.
5237) Beautiful game, Graphics, details, story, the best game of this generation .,Don’t care about the 0 vote is from people that never played the game and vote 0 cause they have mind problems
5238) Great writing, never a dull moment.,,The game play varies between suspenseful stealth and real time panic masterfully, never unfair, always challenging.,,Extra kudos for great accessibility options, a landmark for the games industry.
5239) The Last of Us Part II is hands down the most ambitious storytelling I’ve ever experienced in a video game and I loved/hated every single second of it.
5240) I do not understand people who are not happy with the game. What is your problem, first go through the game and then just write your comments !!! The game went wildly to me like the first part, I don’t see any flaws here, everything was done perfectly, just everything ... This is a post-apocalypse and you find fault with the characters for the fact that they are in the wrong orientation ... Game 10/10, game bomb 100% of this year ... I couldn’t tear myself away from the game at all, I was drawn to continue passing without stopping. Appeal to the haters, first go through the game and then judge, the fact that you watched the videos does not mean that you know something ...
5241) This game is an evolution of story telling! The story is complex and mature. The shear amount of effort to get this story out and told deserves the 10 alone!  I hope other games take what LoU2 did and push the industry into a golden age of video games.  The game is purely immersive and I found myself playing late into the night never really know when one chapter ended and the next began aside from the hard cuts.  The gameplay feels like a nice evolution in the first with even more ways to approach each encounter. The story needs to be played to get the full effect. Those bashing this game for not understanding the underlying message or because their expectations were not met need to play it through first and also maybe grow as people.  Like I said this story/game/message is mature one and one that is frankly needed especially in this current time. There are no heroes and the villians are...well without giving anything away, the subtle and briefly noted characters in the game that lead the major groups involved.  But this game does not give the player the direct good vs bad setting. It lives in the middle and more games and companies should explore these gray areas along with the trials, emotions, and choices involved in living in the gray.,More stories like this need to be told and the way they worked a plethora of diverse groups into the game should be applauded. Play the game! It is a truely marvelous piece of art!,I for one hope they can find a way to expand even further on the universe built, even if that means leaving the characters behind, and exploring more concepts with this masterful waybof story telling.
5242) I claim one simple thing: Nobody else has ever built a game like The Last of Us Part II. Whether you like it or not it is something that the world hasn't seen before. Graphics, animations, sound (just OMG how good it is), the way how storytelling works (I'm not touching the script itself), the in-game atmosphere. All those things are simply unbelievable. When it comes to the most disputed aspect, story, well.. I liked it! I disagree with those people who say it doesn't deserve anybody's attention etc. etc. For me it's opposite: revenge was just one narrow line of the story but eventually turned to be something much bigger. The overall idea is much wider and deeper than that. But you have to play the game to feel and see that. Seems like the worst thing that happened to this game is the leak 2 months before the game came out. Because Neil is absolutely right: just play the game and experience it all yourself! But the public (of course, not all of it) already made their judgement based on those leaked materials..
5243) I don't get all the negative reviews but each to his own here is mine:,,This game is by far the best story game I have played til this day!,The Last of us Part I was my favorite game of all time prior to this and I was afraid that the second part will not be able to compete with that but in my opinion Naughty Dog raised the bar once more.,,I think if you come to this game expecting the same thing you got from the first one you are going to be disappointed. Why? In the first game you are playing someone who is seemingly "the good guy" joel on his mission to take ellie to the fireflies. Yes you are killing people but mostly to fulfill your mission to reach the destination and maybe find a cure to save humanity. Even in the end when you decide against it there is some kind of happy end - not for mankind but for ellie and joel which leaves you with a good feeling.,,Now here comes the second part - and challenges all of this! It's showing you that there are no "good and bad guys" Joel has been a bad guy from Abby's perspective for killing her father and who wouldn't think the same of a person like that. Naughty Dog took a big risk in this game of making the player feel uncomfortable with decisions and even the decisions the game makes for you. It shows you in a brutal way that there is no point in revenge and behind every person in the game there is someone that has friends, family, pets and everything else without being evil from the get go.,,This was a brilliant move! They could have taken the safe route and make sure everybody loves the game but they didn't and I hope they won't in the future if there is a Tlou 3 coming.,,When you get to the moment where abby kills joel we hardly know her. I myself thought: oh my god what a crazy person and group what is wrong with them! When they put you into abby's shoes after half of the game I wasn't that happy at first either thinking about playing the game as her now.,BUT the more you play her and see her side of the story the more relatable she becomes and the more you, the player, starts questioning if the Journey of Ellie and Joel has been such a great one so far. I think if they flipped it around - playing abby as a child in the first game and building up the relationship between her, her friends and her father. And in the end there's joel (in that case just a random guy) killing her dad everybody would hate him just as much as they hated Abby in this part.,,In my opinion the game is a lot deeper than a lot of people might think and it makes a huge difference if you play it by yourself or just watch someone play it. You also have to be very open minded and see the last of us as a world with a lot of space for different storys. This series is not just about ellie and joel it's about different people and groups stuck in the same messed up, post apocalyptic world and how they handle it.,,To wrap things up:,will everybody love the story? - probably not but you have that with every game, tastes are different,Is the gameplay revolutionary? - no, but it's solid like the first part with a few improvements,Are the characters super deep? - The main characters for sure, some of the side characters could have been given a few more background infos but you get to know enough to understand why your main protagonists act in the ways they do,Graphics? not a criteria anymore nowadays, games do look great and this one proves that the ps4 is capable of doing amazing things,Music, Sound, Voice Acting - amazing too and never felt off,,Whoever made it that far: thanks for reading!
5244) It's a great game. It made me to rethink the ending of the first part and it teaches to look on things from both sides. It has gorgeous graphics, interesting gameplay, and perfect soundtrack 10/10
5245) This game is a masterpiece, when I finished the game i almost cried, the story is unexpected and you never know what will happen next. It's beautiful to see Ellie's character grows with her opinion on the world. The graphic is amazing and the whole world feels alive what is really good. The realistic of the game is sometimes on level that the MPC can think better that you. When I was playing this game I haven't found one thing which this game deserves rating 3. My final rating is 10 out of 10.
5246) Story is good, just because is not like you wanted does not mean game deserves a low score. Mechabis are pretty similar to 1, only thing im missing is this 2nd part is easy, platinum is almost gifted...
5247) Masterpiece,For the umpteenth time Naughty Dog has surprised everyone by completely changing genre. Visually speaking The Last of Us part II is overflowing, so full of detail will leave you breathless in more than one occasion. The Last of Us is very sad and moving, a constant punch in the stomach when you least aspects.,I really loved this game has given me so many emotions like few others.
5248) Never really write reviews. But had to make an exception for this game. The Last Of Us 2 is a masterclass at combining storytelling, immersion, in gameplay mechanics, excelent voice acting, music, direction, on pretty much every single aspect. Story choices made may not make everyone happy, but that doesnt mean that they are bad or wrong. Art is subjective. I feel like I need games like this more in my life.,,Never expected a game would tackle issues like war, peace, forgiveness, homosexuality, love, hate, racism, violence, and so many more in such an organic way. Have watched plenty of movies, tv series and read alot of books in my life, but this is how you implement social problems in a piece of entertainment and make it work.,,For the people that didnt like this game, im sorry, hope you enjoyed it as much as I did.,,For the people that hate without even touching the game, grow up. We live in a weird era and whining about a game is very depressing to be honest.,,The Last of Us part 2 is a masterpiece.
5249) Do NOT listen to haters.,Joel's death Hurts a Lot, indeed. But Ellie is the main character since game one, is her journey we follow. Now, this game poses a question: what if Ellie encounters ts another "Ellie" in her way?
5250) This a true definition of what a game can deliver. I think this game is perfect in terms of story/graphics/gameplay. An iconic game.
5251) This game is a masterpiece.  I never take the time to write reviews, but I feel that all the low scores for this game are either fake reviews or just completely wrong.  This is the best gameplay and graphics I have ever seen.  I will admit that I did not personally buy into some of the more emotional manipulations the game has to offer, and it does have a few too many cut scenes, but it is a masterpiece none the less.  You owe it to yourself to play this game but be warned - it is intense, it has very mature content, and can be disturbing at points.  This game is meant to be played by adults.  Bravo, Naughty Dog – Bravo.  This game sets a new level of excellence in gameplay and immersion / storytelling.  For anyone who has issues with the mature content… welcome to the 21st century.
5252) It's a beautiful game with fun stealth gameplay and an emotional roller-coaster of a story.  People giving it low ratings don't agree with some of the narrative choices they made, but that's really a matter of opinion.  The game takes you out of your comfort zone in a way that few games will risk to do.  For me, it worked.  Even if what they did didn't work for you, it's not justified giving the game like a 3 rating like so many people here are doing.  It's a great game.
5253) This game is very original and my favourite game with tlou 1. The graphics, the mechanics, the music, the cruel, emotional, sorpresive and dark experience it gave to you make this game unique, and in the top of the games in this generation.
5254) the last of us part 2 is an amazing exploration of humanity and what is means to be different from each other, with a deep understanding of what makes a compelling story that centers around forgiveness, the gameplay is the smoothest that ND have done yet, the world is a beautiful place to explore and read about the people who were there before you, overall the the story is a depressing look at what humanity could and most likely will become.
5255) I absolutely love this game. Like genuine love, it (to me) perfectly hits every emotion. I’m not gonna lie, that beginning, and the clever way that marketing made you think otherwise. It hurt, it hurt a lot, but that’s the point! It wants you to feel! And boy does it make you feel. Again, kinda thrown off half way through when you play as Abby. But It is an absolute story must! Not only that! But it opens up the gameplay in a way that genuinely makes sense! Like, come on, Ellie couldn’t rock a flame thrower and do some of the things Abby does. So it makes total sense gameplay wise! I Also came to love Abby she is an amazing character! Every single character is amazing even the enemies! Now on to the gameplay in My opinion  it improves on every single gameplay element from the first one and even uncharted 4 as well as adding so many amazing new gameplay aspects and even some awesome “boss” encounters. Please play this game. It is a genuine masterpiece.
5256) The Last of US part 2... a trully emotional roller coaster everyone should experience.
5257) People who don't like this game are disliking it without actually having finished the game. The story shows the perspective of both sides of the conflict, rather than simple black and white one dimensional characters. The subtlety of facial animation allows higher emotional expression and portrayal of internal conflicts of all characters.,Gameplay is great and allows for wide variety of approaches to pretty much every single combat encounter.,Graphics are gorgeous, with highly detailed, lush nature environments contrasting with gloomy decay of human settlements.,Minimalistic guitar score makes every note that much more impactful.,I would definitely recommend everyone to experience this game first-hand to fully appreciate the effort and quality of it.
5258) One of the best 10 games I had played in my entire life, its awesome in almost everything, graphics, history, figths, ambientation, etc. I haven´t finished but I have spendt more than 30 hours, I hope there are a 3. cheers
5259) Its an amazing game i dont give a **** what other people says. I cant believe its rated so low, people are crazy, i would defenitly play it Again.
5260) Phenomenal story, superb acting, glorious audio and video... in it's way, and maybe a first in gaming history, a revenge story Shakespeare would be jealous of, with (ultimately) the sort of redemption only battle hardened war veterans with PTSD can understand and even forgive! Only hope, if there is a sequel - and there doesn't seem to be a need for one, unless Ellie somehow gets pregnant and her immunity gets passed down - they don't  take quite as long!
5261) This game is a masterpiece,i loved everything of it.The gameplay was incredible,the story full of emotional parts,every single thing was perfect.
5262) Graphics: 10/10,,Gameplay mechanics: 9/10,,story: 9/10,,musıc: 10/10,,character animations :10/10,,This game awesome
5263) The Last of Us, more so than any other, was a game about people. It emphasised people inhabiting a post-apocalyptic world from different perspectives and how those perspectives shape their actions. People weren’t portrayed as good or bad, they were driven to their morally ambiguous decisions from either love or tribalism in these survival-of-the-fittest circumstances. On more than one occasion; whether through npc dialogue or a character like David, it was explicitly pointed out that we are NOT just killing npcs ala Call of Duty. Every person killed is related to someone else, has friends, wants, needs, agency etc, even if WE, as an aggressor or defender don't personally know the people we are killing.,Joel is driven to kill a surgeon in cold blood to save his surrogate daughter, just as the surgeon is driven to kill a girl on the operating table without her consent in order to obtain a cure for mankind to ensure his own daughter’s safety in the future.,By having the rising action of the entire narrative derive from a nameless npc Joel murdered, TLoU2 perfectly accentuates a tangible feeling of actions having consequences. You had no choice but to kill the surgeon because Joel had no choice. You’re not meant to reflect on your own actions (the game forced you to do it anyway), you’re meant to feel the weight of Joel’s actions and their consequences. To have someone who's state of life was ruined by Joel, come back and exact revenge is a very confrontational way to tackle a theme, and TLoU2 holds no punches in doing so. It doesn't stop and end at the story itself, either. It's ingrained in the design of the game. You aren't supposed to feel dopamine while killing/hurting people. When the game forces you to press Square repeatedly to choke Ellie (a character who the player’s sole objective in the first game was to love and protect), the game is meant to make you feel uncomfortable because Abby the character feels uncomfortable losing her humanity again in that moment after finally regaining it in the 3 days leading up to it thanks to the innocence of her child companion Lev. For me, seeing the game switch to Abby wasn’t annoying at all, it was more like “oh wow, this game is actually going to try and make me empathise with the psychopath who killed and tortured my favourite character? I’d love to see you try, Naughty Dog!” — which then prompted me to continue the game based on that intrigue alone. I just don’t get how anyone can suddenly become uninterested at such a challenge the game presents to them. I thought part of what made video games so appealing to people was the challenge; wether it’s the satisfaction of overcoming a hard boss battle or, in a revolutionary first-time attempt thanks to TLoU2, an exercise in empathy through the ludonarrative. How the game uses Abby’s half of the story as a parallel to Ellie’s is a genius dichotomy used to illustrate her deteriorating relationship with Joel — something that was foreshadowed as being the emotional hook of a potential sequel with the first game’s final scene. TLoU2 delivers on that promise in the game’s final Joel and Ellie flashback. Joel is stating that no amount of revisionist history would change his choice. He'd do the same act all over. Ellie never really came to terms with what Joel did and why, and her blame and frustration lead to them distancing in the final years of his life. During this scene, Ellie takes a step forward to extend a hand and try to begin a reconciliation process, which is also her trying to understand what he did or to empathise with it even if there's still a fundamental disagreement. Empathy would shift her anger and frustration from seeing Joel as someone who robbed her life of purpose, or as a selfish man, to someone who committed the act out of love even if it’s still a violent, questionable act in of itself.,The reason this takes place towards the end is that it takes Ellie hitting rock bottom to finally come to terms with this. She spends most of the game committing acts of absolute monstrous inhumane violence in the name of her love for Joel — which she feels she needs to physically prove since she never got to reconcile with him in the end. They're awful, irredeemable acts, but it is only in the climax, when Ellie has nothing left, that it hits her that this expression of pure, unconditional love is what also drove Joel to do what he did. The reconciliation is post mortem, Joel is dead and that'll never change, but Ellie has developed a sense of awareness of Joel's actions that she was once so angry about, and in turn, is able to stop herself from doing what’s more than necessary.,Ellie's memories of Joel are thus no longer violent and unfinished, laden with frustration, confusion and guilt, and instead replaced with memories of how much he loved her.
5264) The review bombing for this game is atrocious.,The story of the first game has been done before. But it is done so well. The script and the acting were incredible.,The sequel is the same but maybe even better.,First off though the graphics are incredible. The game does what Naughty Dog does best. Every environment is cluttered. There's no boring empty spaces. Every inch of the environment is thought out. The story telling from the environments sequential art is unparalleled. The animations again are better than any other. The way the characters interact with their surroundings. Not other studio does it this well.,The gameplay is near perfect. The shooting, stealth and exploring mechanics are practically the same as in the first just tweaked to play better. There are 3 main additions to the gameplay though that make the game feel different to its predecessor. First is the prone button. A much needed manoeuvre for this type of game. Second is the dodge button. It perhaps makes things a little easy but it makes up for that by being amazingly satisfying. Third is the ability to quickly squeeze through gaps during conflict. This is something I see many games taking inspiration from going forward. Where it does fall apart slightly is the few glitches or AI not acting how it should. But name a game that's never had a glitch.,Back to the story.,SPOILERS FROM HERE ON OUT!!!,Killing off a main character is so prevalent in TV shows and movies nowadays. So why is it such a big deal cause this game has?,The game takes you everywhere emotionally. Happy, sad, angry but most importantly uncomfortable.,Making you play as a character that eventually kills Joel is just a kick to the crocth. And that's part of the games genius I think. It constantly annoys you with its decisions. But it's done so well you can't help but be in awe of it. The way Joel is killed at first angers and disappoints you. You think "really? That's how it goes down?". It's only later on do you understand how good.it is. One of the three major things talked about the first game is an even bigger deal than we thought. Joel killing the innocent doctors at the end. It comes back to haunt him. And the player. You hate Abby for what's she's done. And you're fully onboard with Ellie's revenge. Until a crazy and risky Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty style character switch. You think you're nearing the end of the game (both narratively and because of the length of the first installment of the franchise) but then it does  a huge switch up. You're only half way through the game and now playing through the timeline of the game that have already happened but through Abby's perspective. And at first it's unwelcome. How could Naughty Dog do us dirty like that again? It doesn't feel right playing as Abby. You hate her. But then... You start to understand. You start to sympathise with Abby, even like her. Even root for her. That might be a narrative done before. But it is near perfect in its excitation. And that's what sets it apart.,The closest thing I can think of this happening to a well known character is Jaime Lannister. Overall I can't state how could this game is. It is a masterpiece. It is an example of why games absolutely can be art and not just entertainment. And it's one of my favourite pieces of art I have ever had the pleasure of consuming.,It might not be my favourite game of all time. I can't make my mind up. But if you wanna argue that it is the greatest game of all time, I don't feel like I have anything valid to argue with you against it.,10/10
5265) The story is hard to accept but truthful to that mad world of 'The Last of Us'.,This game will be loved over time.
5266) Go into this game with a open mind, it is a beautiful, amazing, dark game that tells a great story, yes the leaks might ruin it for some people and I understand,  but if you take the time and actually play the game then you will realize that Joel’s death is just a small part of the game, best graphics I have ever seen in a game, amazing gameplay, and the open world Seattle is breathtaking, so far TLOU2 is my game of the year and I think it will remain that way, Abby is a awesome character introduced, I loved playing as her and I loved her weapon class, her upgrades and honestly her character in general, her and lev make such a awesome duo towards the end of the game, if you truly liked the first game you will like the second, story is beautiful told in different parts but amazing, you will definitely feel the emotions, there are times wear it gets dark that you don’t even know if you want to kill that said person anymore, it just gets worse and worse, but that’s the beautiful thing about the ending, Ellie finds out why she doesn’t kill Abby and why she doesn’t takes a lot of thinking, I know why but I feel like it’s better when you find out yourself, I also loved the side characters very intriguing and cool seeing all the different characters, a lot of abbys friends are cool and Jessie and Dina are fantastic for Ellie! I highly recommended this game to any fellow gamer out there! I give it a 10/10 Also the collectibles in this game are so addicting there so fun and make the game so much more interesting, same with the artifacts and notes you can find along the way it really helps tell how people responded to the out break and during it! This game is beautifully done!
5267) It was definitely an emotional rollercoaster ride. Love the story, gameplay, graphics, and sound of this game. What a masterpiece!
5268) All those who give the game a minimum rating, half did not go through the plot to the end, and the other half did not buy the game at all. Personally, I am delighted with the game. Of course, the sequel is no better than the first part, but he definitely does not deserve all the negativity that hit him.
5269) Gameplay,,- Gameplay loop (scrounge for supplies, craft/upgrade, stealth, combat, repeat) is deep and satisfying,- Control and animation are perfect. Responsive, believable, fluid,- Combat and stealth approach MGS3 levels of openness.,- Crafting, weapon, and character upgrades constantly create tough decisions (on Hard difficulty),- Lengthy campaign with no filler,- Transitions in and out of gameplay are beyond seamless. Past Naughty Dog games have excelled at this, but LoU Part II blows even them out of the water. This feels like a landmark for interactive content for the game direction alone.,- Environments are varied and memorable, though some interiors begin to look familiar (lots of pipes and industrial rooms),- Set pieces are thrilling, particularly due to the direction,,Story,- Hinging the story around Joel’s decision at the end of Part I adds weight to everything in both games,- In parts it truly feels like a continuation of the first game, not just a sequel,- Flashbacks of Joel and Ellie’s relationship, particularly the birthday museum visit, are a highlight of the whole series.,- Most new characters (Dina, Jesse, and Owen in particular) are likable and believable,- The guitar mini-game motif is beautifully understated and offers a gut punch of an ending, shown through gameplay even
5270) psn: rodsal200,Love it from start to finish.,Best looking game of the generation. Its incredible what Naughty Dog can do with a 2013 hardware.,So far, game of the year.
5271) I have just finished the game and I cannot put into words what I'm feeling. This has been such an intense and awesome adventure, with very much to say about the things we do for love, which may not be correct all the time. If I say anything else I would be spoiling, but this game raised the bar for the upcoming games and generations. Thanks Naughty Dog for this masterpiece.
5272) I just finished the game and it's absolutely terrific! Especially when it comes to the story and the narrative layer. Naughty Dog hits the spot every time on this one. The story dwells on the subjects of revenge and the meaning of life. Can you settle down having people who love you close to you and keep your inner demons on hold? Absolutely not. You have to deal with them - just like Elly who is forced to deal with her demon, pumped up, muscled Abby. See how the characters in the story evolve to reach the climax in sunny California. I highly recommend this game for anyone yearning for the good, thought-provoking story.
5273) Every review written on 19th of June should be deleted as it is not possible to end the game in such a short time. I think many people are not mature enough to get the story or understand the characters, this might also lead to many bad reviews. In fact this is the best game I have ever seen. I'm impressed by the graphics, the gameplay and first of all the story. It's a roller coaster of feelings and the writers actually made me side with the "antagonist" in the end. Hats off!
5274) This game is an improvement over the first one in every way possible. It take you on an amazing emotional journey of loss and revenge but it's so much more than that. This game shows how far story telling through the medium of video games has come.
5275) One of the best games I've ever played. Just as good, if not, better than the first one. I hope all main characters return.
5276) the game is perfect from its soundtrack to its levels of detail is a 100/10 masterpiece the best game I have ever played for this game I bought the ps4 since I am an xbox user but my brother had the ps3 and the last of  you original and I loved it and this much more I adore this game I just say give it a chance please
5277) Been waiting for this game for years and it surpassed all my expectations. My wife and I went through a rollercoaster of emotions all 20 hours of this game. Definitely recommend.
5278) What the hell with gamers that criticize this game. It really a great single player game, better than resident evil 2 or 3 remake. I have a great time with it. Those gamers better go play their animal crossing, pokemon or online kiddie stuff.
5279) Well, this game is definitely not what masses were expecting. This is the main reason why the game got so many negative reviews in first three days. Several days have passed and.. wow, what is it? Yes, people who actually completed the game started to rate it on 6+. Why? Because you need to complete the game at the first place and not whine about one *spoiler_death* at the beginning of the game.,,I'm really sorry for developers who worked on the Last of Us 2 and now have to head all those bad reviews from people who can't understand a serious message, plot and deeper understanding of an actual great piece of art.,This game made me cry and left a nice hole in my hart, just like after the first one. it's great, I'm happy I've played it without reading all those reviews, watching all those *bad* youtube pre-release reviews and spoiler.,,Thanks, naughty dogs! Keep it up despite all those haters!
5280) Amazing game in every aspect. I think it deserves a 9 but I’m gonna give it the 10 as my tiny contribution against all the homophobic and fanboys out there that are giving it a 4, 3 and even ¡¿2 and 1!?
5281) Amazingly rough game that puts you through the pain the characters feel. I highly recommend this game to everyone who loves the first game.
5282) I don’t see why this game is getting hate.  While I was new to the series (picked up part 1 a month before part 2 came out) so maybe that has something to do with it?  In my opinion it is one of if not the greatest single player campaign I’ve ever experienced.  I lol’ed I cried I screamed the most.  I even began pausing the game anytime something scary happened so much it became something I had to actively fight myself from doing.  I can’t recommend this game enough!  And with all these bad reviews I’m sure you can find it used if you’re on a bugit! Can’t wait to see what’s next from Naughty dog
5283) “The Last of Us: Part II” truly is an exceptional piece of art. When I finished it after 32 hours, I felt exhausted. Not because the gameplay was too hard, but because its story and its characters challenged me like no other game ever has before. Naughty Dog’s dual narrative that reveals itself over the course of the story made me grow with the characters, made me understand their different view on the world and what intentions they have. It is a rollercoaster of emotions. If you go in close-minded, you won’t understand the story and the brilliant writing that is presented here and miss the point of the game.,,From a technical and gameplay standpoint, the sequel improves on its predecessor in virtually every way. The animations here are the best I have ever seen, in cutscenes that are acted brilliantly by the game’s cast, and also in the gameplay. Walking, running, fighting, grabbing objects and climbing looks and feels not only more realistic, but also smoother than in any game this generation. The soundtrack by Gustavo Santaolalla is amazing. The graphics, the details and the lighting create an outstanding overall presentation that makes you appreciate how much work has flown into it and sets the bar high for all the next-gen titles that will launch in the next five years.
5284) It is very difficult to describe this game in its entirety, but it is great!,They improved all aspects that were already excellent in the first game, but the strongest topic is the genius of how creators manage to manipulate our emotions in the most varied ways possible, arousing all kinds of feelings throughout the game!,,A continuation with a totally unexpected narrative that shows how important it is to know both sides of the stories and that the universe of The Last of Us is not only about Joel and Ellie.,,É muito difícil descrever esse jogo em sua totalidade, mas é genial!,Melhoraram todos os aspectos que já era excelente no primeiro jogo, mas o tópico mais forte é a genialidade de como os criadores conseguem manipular nossas emoções das mais variadas formas possíveis, despertando todos os tipos de sentimentos ao longo da jogatina de uma forma brutal!,,Uma continuação  com uma narrativa totalmente inesperada que mostra o quanto é importante conhecer os dois lados das historias e que o universo de The Last of Us não se trata somente do Joel e da Ellie.
5285) this game is really amazing, it makes you realize that there isn't exactly a villain, and it makes you look at the other side of the story, which makes the story really exciting and incredible!
5286) It’s a great game with awesome graphics and great gameplay and story. I don’t understand all the hate around it
5287) I actually really loved the game. I don’t think there’s a pacing issue at all. Think of games like Beyond: Two Souls, who tells its story completely fragmented. There’s a certain enjoyment of puzzling everything together, and it makes reveals that much more impactful when the pieces fall into place.,,The gameplay in Tlou was perfect for what the game is, and ND have improved upon it I’d say considerably. From animations, to how weapons feel, the prone and new stealth mechanics, I really love it all.,,World building is just superb; so many locations crafter with care, detailed environments, variation, the details about WLF, Seraphites, and the little stories from collectibles. Overall jaw-dropping graphical quality too. The last point applies to the whole game really.,,Now the story and the characters. I liked it, it’s as simple as that. I’ll say that the ending left me sad, since Ellie doesn’t deserve this much consistent sadness, but life is often sad and disappointing. I think it’s better for games to replicate reality than create fairy tales (depending on the game’s genre and narrative of course).,,The deaths of characters you care about I think were done properly and added gravitas to the story. Joel was almost guaranteed to die, how else to actually make a new game?  Just make another Ellie/Joel game? That would be stale in a way, but I suppose you could indeed spice it up with a more matured relationship between them. Still, this is the way they chose to go and the story they wanted to tell, and if you don’t like the fact that Joel died, I think it’s because of emotional reasons alone.,,Just because you want a game to be a certain way doesn’t mean under any circumstances it should be like that. Joel got soft in the comfort of Jackson, and encountered traders as well. Him, Tommy and Abby fought infected together, of course he had a moderate amount of trust in her (plus they had just saved her life). His death is powerful and gives Ellie’s quest more meaning. Jesse’s death is also done very well, since there’s a very good chance you’ll end up dead when charging like that through a door without knowledge of what’s behind it. It also reflects the uncertainty of every step in life. But yeah, you could say that Abby’s instant aim is **** however she does have extensive military/guerilla training.,,Playing as Abby was kinda hard to process at first. I found the concept intriguing, and because you play as her only from that crucial point where she has Tommy pinned and Jesse’s dead, it’s more impactful and tense. Ultimately, you see she’s also human, with her own passions, fears, and regrets. She is kinda insane at points though. Like, Ellie didn’t know Leah was pregnant and almost broke down when Owen told her that with his dying breath. Abby wanted to gut the **** out of Dina when Ellie said she’s pregnant, like damn. However, since she stopped at the boy’s behest, it shows she isn’t just a ruthless animal; she killed Joel like that because he killed her father, not to mention that he potentially screwed everyone over anyway.,,Ellie’s realization that she’s becoming someone Joel wouldn’t want coming only when Abby is almost done can feel extremely tropey and **** but as humans, we’re often times dumb as hell. That’s just a choice she took in that instant. You can say “but she already threw her life with Dina away and has nothing but this revenge” and I’d agree with you, but that’s Ellie’s decision, and I don’t think writers should be blamed for this. It’s their story, not yours, and people are imperfect, so characters should be the same. Besides, Joel cared for her just as Abby is caring for the boy; I don’t think Ellie’s threat to kill him had any truth to it anyway.,Damn though, that ending really hits you in the gut, but I think it’s a good ending. Wish Abby would have been killed in that water, but then Lev would have been alone, so there’s no winning here.,,In the end, I do think you played too much with Abby, and Ellie’s the more humane character of the two, but both are justified in their causes just the same. I did root for Ellie all the way through though, but I’m biased from the first game. Can’t say what I’d think if Abby would be the main character. To sum it it up, I think that the game, just gameplay wise, is very very good, and I personally think the story is really good too, with them gradually revealing the entirety of Ellie's and Joel relationship, and how before he died she wanted to start and forgive him after 2 years. It is sad, even depressing, but that doesn't mean under any circumstances it's a bad story. It's just not a happy one, which is fine, and I would personally like another game, although when I draw the line, I kinda do dislike Abby, and it would have to include her search of the Fireflies too. Still, the amount of uproar and hate the game's getting is to me, irrational.
5288) Incredible, gameplay, story are amazing, but the MUSIC of this game and how it connects with you and the story is out of this world.
5289) Literally a perfect game. Amazing story, immersive world, and lived up to the hype
5290) The writing is amazing and not just the story. Performances are excellent and gameplay is vastly improved on the original.    Have to say I understand why some didn’t enjoy. It’s not a feel-good experience. It’s often brutal, stark and depressing and if gaming is primarily an escapist pursuit for you, you probably won’t enjoy.    For me it felt raw and human. A world where anything can happen to anyone at any time makes it enthralling and unsettling.    There are also a few too many causes preached during the journey that I don’t disagree with, but served to remind me it’s a crafted narrative with a specific tack and it did take me out of the experience too often.
5291) The game is magnific, i'am very surprising for amazing work in the game. Realmente es una gran compra, vale cada centavo que cuesta.
5292) The direction this game went with it's story may not have been a popular one, but to me it felt like the natural progression of the choice Joel made at the end of the original.,,While Joel did act to save someone he loved, he also doomed the human species to a continuing apocalypse, and the brutal consequences of that decision are rendered with exceeding credibility in this daring masterpiece.,,While many will never be able to forgive Abby for the actions she takes, this game's portrayal of her and the rest of it's characters as nothing more or less than human is worthy of respect.
5293) This is a great game with an amazing and complex story. I got a lot of emotions playing it and I really don't understand these negative comments.
5294) Just finished “The Last of Us Part II”, I found it to be a perfect ten out of ten. Great gameplay, amazing graphics and an incredible mature storyline. A must for every gamer to play and hands down the game of this generation.
5295) Play—and finish—the game. Open your mind, and then make your own decision.
5296) I don’t understand where all the hate is coming from. Just finished the game and it was amazing! The gameplay and graphics are crazy good! The story is super emotional! You can play for hours just looking around finding all kinds of hidden goodies... you will have to survive the infected though to get some of the good stuff! Play with some headphones for the best experience but just a heads up those clicker sounds are creepy! One of the best games of this Generation don’t let the “crowd” and people that probably have never even played the discourage you from giving this game a shot!
5297) Incredible game, extreme immersion, exciting story and totally addictive gameplay. Certainly the best game of this generation!
5298) I finished the game yesterday, after thirty-five hour or so of gameplay. I understand why controversy surrounds it, but I truly hope that folks realize the controversy was inevitable. This is game designed to put you through its paces, to force you to experience its narrative. It’s not a game about choices, which by itself makes it sort of a throwback in these days of almost infinite character design and open worlds. This is a game with a story to tell, and it requires you to travel with it.,,And what a story it is, far more akin to a novel than a game. You won’t be able to empathize with one character throughout, because that character’s actions will force you to reevaluate your feelings. Likewise, your initial impressions of other characters will change because of their deeds and motivations. I’ve never seen anything like in a game before. It’s clear that enormous thought and planning and artistry went into this story before any programmer touched a keyboard.,,Perhaps that is what impresses me most about the game, that Naughty Dog had a singular vision and, holy hell, did they follow through on it. I still find it hard to grasp the sheer scope of it all, the ridiculous beauty of the mountains surrounding Jackson, the heartbreaking devastation of Seattle, the set pieces that had me as tense as I’ve ever felt during a game. I can’t tell you how many times I asked, “How did they do that?” Even though it’s been seven years since the original, it’s hard to believe they pulled off this massive — there’s no other word for it — world in such detail.,,I will play it again, but not anytime soon. I want to approach it after it’s not so fresh in my mind. If you are on the fence, or have been concerned by the mixed or negative reviews—please, give it a shot. This game was created by talented professionals working at the very peak of their powers. You may love it, you may hate it, but I promise you that it is an experience you won’t soon forget.
5299) The Last of Us part II is definitely worth playing through at least once. I had only one issue with the story other than that its a phenomenal game. The pacing felt slow at times which was the biggest issue. Other then that i really enjoyed this game. I enjoyed both ellie and abby's gameplay moments. Perhaps abby's more on certain occasions. Gameplay was fluent and fun for me. Idc if its nearly the same as the first game when it comes to gameplay. You don't need to fix something that isn't broken. The game is a 9.5 /10.  You can call me stupid i really don't care.
5300) I really don't understand what the fuss was all about . Really enjoyed the game .
5301) Beautiful, thought provoking game about the vicious cycle of revenge and learning to forgive.
5302) The most profound and emotional piece of media I have ever consumed! The story combined with industry leading facial animations and acting performances, made for an incredibly deep and engaging experience that is unmatched in my 33 years of gaming.,,The game mechanics and features are very well polished, with Naughty Dog perfecting their brand of gameplay, making for a very enjoyable and rewarding playthough along side the story elements. Graphics, animation and sound design are also fantastic, as to be expected from Naughty Dog.,,The story demands a mature mind to appreciate it and it's many threads, hence the mixed reviews. Too many kids seemingly unable to grasp mature themes. Don't let them deter you, this game is a masterpiece in every sense.
5303) Imagine if those leaks never happened. Players would concentrate on the whole story, without specifying certain moments. No one would play the game with leaked scenes in mind. Just try to perceive the story as a chunk, not in pieces. Maybe THEN you will understand.
5304) Hands down, for me, the best game I have ever played.  To call this a game is actually far from doing in credit.  It's a story, a movie if you will, that lets you play the key characters pitted against each other.  You're shown hate, the cost of revenge and the compulsion the characters have that costs so much.,,I was shown through game play what each character's motivation is, what they faced and how they grew up not too dissimilar but ended up miles apart.,,At first I questioned some of the decisions that were made in telling this story but I relaxed and let it happen as I was escorted through feelings of love, hatred, jealousy, bigotry, mindless war, genocide and morality.,,I left amazed, almost numb at the story that was told.  Such a beautiful well designed story told via a "game".,,If you play this game please be open minded, let it lead you and enjoy the trip and ponder the choices you're thrust into and see how they make you feel.  This is not a game where you just run around and blow stuff up, it's a game that fills in a character's story, colors between the lines and sometimes outside of them, but for a story that is about the end of the world, the destruction of humanity and self and the struggle to remain human and just in the face of nothing pleasant - my god they delivered a knockout.,,At the end, when Ellie forced the fight with Abby who had been clearly broken by what she when through and her devotion to someone else (something that Ellie ended up losing) was just amazing.  I literally told myself at one point in the fight that if it tells me to fight more I won't hit the button - amazing that the story moved me from hating Abby to understanding her, feeling disbelief and sorrow at Ellie and her choices.,,I hope they continue the story, maybe this time continue with Abby to see what the Fireflies are capable of again and if Ellie deteriorates further into self destruction.,,My hat is off to you Naughty Dog - amazing work.
5305) One of the best games of this generation easily, best graphics and can be compared to a massive summer blockbuster movie
5306) So epic!,There are no more words to describe the game, beacuse beyond graphics, the story it's really sad for the people that have lost someone especial and the message that it left is beautiful.
5307) Last of Us Part 2 is not what you want, not what you expect, and will make you more sad and more angry than you've ever felt playing another game. When you see people giving this game a 0 or a 1, that's the reason. However, I would argue that once it is all said and done, that is WHY this game is so incredible. I would classify this game as a masterpiece because of the incredibly challenging narrative that makes you question morality. But not just the characters, but also your own and that of your heroes.  And not just in the obvious ways of "Is violence bad?" But to the extent as which people will go, the motivations, the responses to others' actions - It is a wildly powerful story about empathy and revenge and the cycle of violence.,,On top of all of this, the graphics are jaw-dropping. They're as good as you remember Part 1 being, until you play Part 1 again and realize just how far Naughty Dog has taken it with this second game. The gameplay has also stepped it up in ways that feel more modern and fun, with many different ways to handle various situations that are thrown at you. Guns blazing, stealth, and even running for your life are all viable options here in most scenarios. The music is perfectly scored, and I'd feel I was doing you and the team a disservice if I didn't tell you to listen to the song in the end credits. Gives me chills.,,Please give this game your love and attention. And when you're 5 hours in and you are just mad and angry and don't want to play anymore because of how things have panned out, keep going because that is the point and you can't cheat yourself out of one of the best stories of our generation.
5308) I finished the game a few days ago. I had nightmares about the ending. No game impressed me so much, the story is heavy, deep, sensitive and emotional, also depressive, violent and perverse. just life as it is. The ending is so bitter that it gives me chills... i just love it.
5309) better than 1. You may not like this game, but on the contrary, please know that there are people who enjoyed it.
5310) Honestly this is the best game I've played this year and possibly of all time.,People need to complete this game before judging it.,Everyone is so upset about Joel dying and the number one argument I'm seeing is that he was catious in the first game and is somehow trusting in the second?",Think about how many people are in their encampment now, and the situation they just got out of being chased down by a horde.  They spent years building it to that degree and their is always risks with strangers, but there is HAS to be some form of vulnerability to allow a camp to grow that large. There has to be some form of trust. Joel had a moment of vulnerability, it's a human mistake.,For anyone that actually completed the game the whole theme was about how cruel life can be and how one decision stretches to affect everything around them. Decisions made by all characters which were masterfully portrayed and the very real threat that life could end at any moment. This is a MUST PLAY. It has the best acting you can find out there with the best graphics you can find on the market with an INSANELY dark and gripping story about humanity that you have to experience
5311) The script was amazing and ballsy with killing joel early and tommy later, the voice acting was 2nd to none, the graphics were incredible (read an article about the insane details threy put in), it was more open world than the original, the mechanics and how you play i.e. the buttons were fantastic, I don't get it, maybe because the flashbacks were all over the place
5312) I've rated this game 10, not because I enjoy it, but because I enjoy the object lesson it has given you people.,,You console gamers hail exclusivity, you weld your egos to the likes of Sony and Microsoft, you revel in the prospect of gating others out of content out of sheer spite. The fruits of your idiocy are on full display here. An exclusive you prayed for and so exclusively you will suffer. The corporate lords that you heaped on praise for have noticed your gullibility and gormlessness, and the Last of Us 2 will not be the last of the dirty tricks they play on you, but only the first.  You will know nothing but endless betrayal and dirty tricks for the rest of your days, and until you renounce console gaming, nothing more.,,A horrible fate, well deserved, for those who destroyed gaming. The fate of Joel is now your own: to be destroyed by those you foolishly placed your trust in.
5313) Best game for this generation! Great graphics! Great characters, great history!
5314) Love this game .Gamers nowadays spoiled . It has the best graphics among the games . Love every part of it . Thanks Naughty Dog for a such good game .
5315) I thought it was amazing, with one of the most emotionally impactful stories I have experienced from a video game, but can see why some people wont enjoy it. The gameplay is good, with improvements on the first game. The environments are incredibly well done. The acting and motion capture is second to none. I think it's the story and the way it is presented that is probably what will make you love or hate this game, personally I loved it, and having gone and watched playthroughs after completing it myself found myself appreciating it even more.,It's difficult to say too much more without starting to spoil it, all I can suggest is that if you do play it you will likely find some of it difficult to play through for varying reasons, but persevere and allow your preconceptions to be challenged and hopefully you will enjoy and appreciate it. Remember that it's a story-driven game where you are being shown the story, much like a book or film, and not one where you will get to take it in the direction you wish to see it go. If you can be fine with that, I think you are much more likely to have a better time with this game.
5316) Poor Joel but he stays with Sarah now, Its not just a game its a movie too. Well done ND
5317) Amazing story, graphics, human sensations. This game makes you feel sonething that you never seen in a game. After you finish it, you will have the story debating in your head for days
5318) Please don't listen to any of the bad player reviews. This story is amazing and every plot is justified. You have to play through it yourself to really feel that though and of you're not going to give it a chance to prove itself story wise then you probably didn't trust naughty dog to make a great sequel on the first place. Anything you've read or seen that's puts this game in a bad light ignore it and play it yourself. I promise you won't regret it. The end of this game had me sitting there thinking of the whole journey and how we got to this part., Just like the first game did. This is a masterpiece in storytelling and human emotion!
5319) The game is well...Insane. The graphics are so crazy detailed, the animations have never, in any game, been as fluid and the story really makes you think and is not just there for enjoyment, its a story of consequences, the part that was left out by the excellent first part.,Enjoy the ride, there is no game out there that comes close to this. Piece of art.
5320) I loved the story and the gameplay was excellent, the graphics were more than wonderful
5321) The Last of Us Part 2,Not,The Last of Us 2,I think it's a discredit to the hard work and effort that has gone into the development of this game to rate it with anything but a 6+. Even if you have issues with the direction it's still a way above any average game.,Yes the writers could simply follow the same  route as the first game and create an unlimited number of straight forward revenge stories (in a similar way that games like Uncharted rehash their stories with each release) but they didn't and credit to them for taking a risk. I feel that the story will make a fantastic series now it has been picked up by HBO. We may have to passively watch rest of the story unfold as I wouldn't be rushing into making a third installment for a ungreatful audience. 10 out of 10 easily best game I've played on PS4. .
5322) Please play this game before you make up your mind about it. The negative reviews from those who have made up their mind without context are doing such a disservice to this game, this story and most importantly the fans, many of whom are missing out on the incredible experience this game provides with their biased and hateful reviews.,,This game is incredible. It is an absolute ride of emotions that I have never known anything like in any media before. It is stunning and poignant and sad and heartbreaking but also has some of the sweetest most loving scenes and excellent characters moments across the entire series.,,Forget what you know about the spoilers, please just experience this. Although what you may have read might be true, you can't understand it unless you give it a chance and play it for yourself.
5323) All you hypocritical crybabies saying "the gameplay and art design and sound and graphics and animations and voice acting and accessibility options are all amazing, but there was scenes in the writing I don't like, zero out of ten" are just making your side look like the **** I liked the story but it's ok if you don't,  but you're a liar if you are saying that all of the 90% of the game  that's not part of the story doesn't earn it a single point. it can be played to completion by someone who is totally blind, that alone earns it a high score.
5324) Absolutely amazing! What a great experience!!,Fantastic gameplay, great story!! Very emotional... and makes you see that life isn’t about heroes and villains, but humans with strengths and flaws. I read some spoilers before end the game, but to play it and see with my own eyes how those events developed, made all the difference... I was afraid to not like this game, but I had no reason to... **** brilliant!
5325) If this game had a different name all these people scoring it low would be giving it 10's. The original game Peaked so hard at the beginning and end that it stuck with people still to this day, myself included. Part II never hits the same peak level of the originals beginning and ending; but Part II has so much more. There is a ton more meat in this sandwich. I had a lot more emotional experiences in this game. Quality ones. I am still thinking about a lot of them still.  Don't listen to these people. If i didn't have to sleep and adult I would have played it nonstop. Still got it done in 3 days with all of lives hurdles because it is one of the greatest experiences I have had in gaming.
5326) I really enjoyed The Last Of Us Part II. There are many heartbreaking and shocking moments in the game, but they are balanced by the many very intense, action moments. Overall I loved the game, the part with Ellie was increadable, with her going on this brutal path of revenge. If I could change the story I would only change two things, the part with Abby being this long, I wish we could get to play with Ellie even more and I hope we can get to play with Ellie more in part III.The second thing would be to not kill Joel this early in the game or give him a hero’s death, other from that I wouldn’t change anything else. The gameplay is just phenomenal, I don’t think I have ever played a game where the gameplay and all of the animations are that smooth, every fight encounter feels very realistic and intense. However, I think, the part with Abby wasn’t as good as the part with Ellie, but I understand why ND let us play as Abby, it’s to try to create empathy for Abby. Overall the game is amazing and I know some people didn’t like the ending, but the ending is a lot more than just an ending, it perfectly sets up perfectly for part III
5327) Godfather part II in video games.Best game of 2020. I wish it never ends. All characters are deep. Plot is awesome. Gameplay is very addictive.
5328) Worth it . If u want a really good review that dosnt just disregard everything see Forbes
5329) I’m going to be quick and to the point - go and experience the game for yourself. The story is challenging, but I felt that my every plot point was intentional and thoughtful. One of the best gaming experiences I’ve had in a long time. A deserving perfect score.
5330) The game was good it’s not suppose to be happy it all fits in well with the story honestly with all that Joel did the game isn’t suppose to make u feel happy or good that’s the whole point of it
5331) Hats of ND for such bold move.  What a game.  The quality is mindblowing on a 7 year old system.  The gameplay is brutal. AI is fantastically done.  Loved everything about this game.  Makes you realise how revenge can destroy you and your relationship.  Also what people can do for love.   It was heartbreaking and sad.  Hopefully we get a part 3.  Thank you ND for making a game like the Last of us 2. On my 2nd playthrough now one trophy away from Platinum.
5332) Awesome game , they did something completely different and I can understand why some people might be mad but when we look at it from an outside perspective we realise that our beloved characters are part of an unforgiving world where revenge and survival are at its core. Love it or hate it but saying its bad because you didnt like the way it went is not a valid argument. Good graphics , levels design and awesome perfomances by the actors. Collapse
5333) I did feel every emotion that I can in this game. I'm surprised how much it thought out and detailed though the story and environment. Well of course nobody aspect this much-complicated story so there is a backlash to it. People just want the same thing over and over again but we already play as Joel and have a great time with Ellie. This is the story of the world of the last of us. Stop hating and give it a chance.
5334) One of the most significant video game experiences of my entire existence. I don't feel like criticizing people who didn't appreciate it, it's a divisive game and as such it can't meet everyone's taste. It is a story of revenge and consequences, the principle of cause and effect. Never had a game left me with such deep sadness and bitterness. A masterpiece.
5335) A masterpiece not made for everyone! It required a lot of me, and it swiftly changed my emotions throughout the whole game. Please be open minded to the game and its scenario. It is truly one of the best games I have ever played.
5336) I love this game because of graphics and a great story. I dont now why so many people hate this game.
5337) Phenomenal game. Despite all the negative reviews it really worked for me. If you’re looking for a feel good game or a game with an ending that brings finality, this game is not for you. I felt uncomfortable often, but much like the first game after it’s over you’re left thinking about the choices made. Gameplay was stunning, amazing graphics! Can’t wait for the multiplayer experience!
5338) Masterpiece! Neil Druckmann you are nuts. I need a triquel or spinoff urgently :)
5339) An unforgettable tragedy in which I became completely engrossed and will undoubtedly ruminate upon for many years. It was the most emotionally crushing and visceral reaction I’ve ever experienced in the medium and, although it has some flaws, is certainly a masterpiece with which developers have admirably taken narrative risks. It is a riveting tale which inspires discussion and interpretation as it challenges the player to contemplate on character decisions and to empathize with different perspectives. As such, it is understandably divisive (as great Art often is). I thoroughly recommend The Last of Us Part II.
5340) What an insanely wonderful game. I don't understand fans: they want to be surprised but when things don't go the way they want, they don't like it. It's The Last Jedi all over again! Sure the story isn't has good has the first one but still... what a ride...! Hope this negative reviews by fans don't stop this amazing games from becoming a trilogy!
5341) It was a masterpiece. Its a nice closing of the playstation 4 generation. Thank you Naughty Dog!
5342) Absolutely phenomenal the way this game blurred the lines between black and white is astonishing. It plays with your emotions and makes you think. It requires a certain amount of emotional intelligence to enjoy it, but if you have that than you will definitely have a fantastic ride.
5343) I finished this game last night, and all day I've felt this dark sensation in my chest -- like I am healing from what I've just been through. This game made me feel all the emotions -- joy, despair, anger, distress, hate. Love. At its end I felt depressed and hopeful, upset and at peace all at once. I am still reeling from it. It wasn't an easy story to swallow, but it was easily one of the best narratives I have ever experienced in my life.,,A good story doesn't pander to its listeners -- it depicts something real and meaningful. Through all of the seemingly impossible twists and turns, every decision is justified and deeply rooted in the characters' experiences. This is the equivalent of classic literature. This is the hard truth that people need to experience. These are the lessons we need to learn. We need more games like this, but for now Naughty Dog has ventured into the deep unknown and delivered to us something that is, truly, one of a kind.
5344) This game is simply a masterpiece. I know so many people will attack the story, but this story is the only way to justify the Part II's launch. I liked the way this game shows how a life can be ephemeral. It's an apocalypse. There are no heroes or villains. We are all heroes of our own stories. I think this is the main message that Neil Druckmann wanna send to each one that plays this game.
5345) A masterpiece. It’s as if Cormac McCarthy wrote a zombie apocalypse. Beautiful story awesome gameplay amazing graphics with complex characters and superb acting. I can’t wait to replay this and relive the excitement and emotions
5346) I really don't get all the bashing this game is getting, I loved the story from start to finish, and yes, I had read the leaks, and sure, some were true and some were not, I've got some points,,-First, Joel dying? Sure made me cry, but I don't think it was something wrong, I mean, it's a zombie-apocalypse world, people die eventually, death itself could be spontaneous, also, we all saw that coming.,,-Then, Abby, I really loved Abby, and i didn't thought i would, but the game has on emphazis on character development, Abby killed Joel because of a good reason ( at least from her point of view ), and was mature enough to learn from her mistakes, even faster than Ellie, I liked her character, and the game made me sad too as it gets you to learn and see everything from her point of view after we killed everyone important from her with Ellie.,,-Ellie, wel my girl, you can clearly see how she has to make terms with Joel's absence, her grief, her feelings to him ( wich she could never actually told him, as we cleary see that she feels him as a father, but doesn't have the guts to tell him ), and how she clearly gets blind by revenge, it's very human, I mean, I felt pretty connected to her thinking on those who I had griefed in my life, it's a pretty sad journey, and i liked it, also, I loved her relationship with Dina, our little Ellie is so mature!!!,,-And the ending, well I can see too why too many people is hating on it,   Yeah, we made a long last trip to Santa Carolina just to kill Abby, Ellie even lost everything to Dina and JJ, but there's the catch, Ellie didn't had any more reasons to keep chasing Abby no more, I mean, poor Abby lost everything to Ellie too and still, prefered to just not kill her and Dina, she spared their lives, this, revenge cycle, hatred cycled or any name that you wanna give to, it's a common thread nowadays on media, and I'am not mad that Neil's chose it, as my old cowpoke said ´´Revenge is a fools game´´, and Ellie clearly had to pay for it, ultimately to spare Abby, as her last piece of humanity cames with an image of her loved Joel, I loved that, i felt so bad beating Abby up, I'm glad Ellie didn't became a total monster at the end because of her hatred.,,I loved the game, from start to finish, pretty emotional, pretty nostalgic, good story, gameplay is just what you would expect from the first one with few great additions ( being able to lean on the ground for example ), and, I really feel satisfied with it.,,I even have friends who used to bash the game because of that stupid snowball effect, and they changed their minds when they played it LOL.,,it's a 10 for me, no more.
5347) People are either review bombarding or just joining the Internet mob being crybabies, oh nooo they killed my joel so early im so sad, how can you play with abby she killed my daddy nooo honestly Everyone needs to take a step back and think for themselves The story is extremely well made they show you that your favourite characters may not necessarily be in the right , they showed you abby's history and gave her enough reason to do what she did, if joel was in your world and did what he's done in the first game plus kill your father you'd probably wanna kill him too, they made abby seem like a heartless **** and then walked you through her journey until you would feel for her, and even if you didn't you could still 100% justify her actions.,Everyone is just mad they had to question their precious ellie, joel and tommy.,The game is dark and brutal and makes you question everyone's morals, something that's not in other games because no developer is brave enough to face the Internet's mob mentality
5348) This is the best story-based game I ever played. During gameplay I felt emotionally invested, absolutely mesmerised by character building and story twisting. DO NOT LISTEN TO BAD OPINIONS - you can feel conservative butthurt from miles away from negative grades here, especially from people that spent couple of hours on the game and then threw up their precious opinion here.
5349) very cool game, deserves 10/10 in spite of all the haters who ruined the rating although they didn’t even buy it
5350) Loved it. The second half of this game is what makes it worth it. I wish they Story allowed you to sympathise a little bit more with Ellie than it did.
5351) The best game from PS4. Indeed of all that polemics fans reviews, the game brings a new concept of storytelling. This game will make you feel and think about ego, violence and love.,If you liked too much of the first game, maybe you wont like this one. This game go to a new way, and make some script decisions, that maybe displeased those wanted something like the first one.,The graphics, gameplay e music are unquestionable great.,If you want a game that makes you think a lot, this is foy you.
5352) I was hoping the whole game that Ellie had a bad dream and she woke up near Joel when watching the movie that she said at the beginning of the game on patrol
5353) GAME OF THE YEAR.....i cant wait to know whats happen to ellie at her lonly life  PLEASE MAKE Last of us 3
5354) A fantastic, high quality piece of entertainment. The gameplay feels slick (tense, but fun), the visuals and audio are top notch, the characters feel believable and the story is gripping right to the end. The review bombing for this game is unwarranted, as most give it '0' simply because they didn't like the story, or haven't even finished the game. There are controversial narrative choices sure, but the experience is better for it.,,This is no hero game. There is no 'good vs evil'. It's about humanity in its most desperate of times and what people are capable of doing when pushed to their limits with their emotions and minds. Outside of the marmite story, the rest of the game is at the top of its class in all other areas, so giving it a low score because of the story feels like a disservice to all of the hard work the developers have put in to create such a wonderful masterpiece of a world that feels eerily real.,,I for one LOVED the story. Without spoiling anything, the game takes an interesting narrative direction during the game, which I have seen no other game do and while some people don't like this, I think it's brilliant. It really makes you focus on the core themes the story is dealing with and makes you question your own morality.
5355) This game is amazing naughty dog did it again all the other bad reviews on here obviously are people who did not play it just cuz the story did not go the way you wanted it to does not make it a bad game the graphics are almost next gen graphics the story WAS great the gameplay was awesome it was not too long kind of hated that we lost Joel but it was their story to tell not ours just our job to enjoy it. Too many people review bombing this game just because they're jealous it is not coming to PC or it did not go their way deal with it it is what it is and it is a 10 out of 10 game amazing job 2 naughty dog Sony and everybody involved thank you and looking forward to many more
5356) What can I say? Naughty Dog have not only set the bar they moved it so far it's going to be awhile before anyone can reach it! I braced myself for a horrible travesty of a game after reading the negative reactions but this game delivered everytime I turned around. The story and pacing for me were excellent.! Ellie was written perfectly  and when here quest for revenge starts to eat away at her you feel it. Somewhere along the line she starts to think what am I becoming and you can tell it she is turning into someone she doesn't like. And,playing as Abby is just as powerful someone you want to hate but you're forced to see she is just a person just like Ellie who went through with her quest for revenge and learns that it wasn't worth it and didn't change anything for her. Two sides of the same coin that show revenge is never the answer especially in a world where the ultimate fight is to try to hold on to their humanity. It's not easy but sometimes the fight to stay human is the hardest one of all and this game illustrates that point perfectly! Excellent lesson for the times we live in today!
5357) best game of the generation, an injustice this grade that they gave to this game, technically speaking it is a work of art
5358) It was a controversial game, but I really enjoyed it. Love this game.....!!!
5359) A stunning technical achievement and an absolute masterpiece of storytelling, this game will go down in history as one of the best pieces of media ever crafted.
5360) The masterpiece of the generation.,Best story ever,Best Grafics and SoundTrack
5361) The Last of Us Part II is a truly amazing game and a ride that is well worth the 27 hours it will take you to complete it. It is very unfortunate that so many people rushed to this site just to go out and review-bomb it due to leaks revealing the direction this game was taking before release. However, if you are considering playing this game, do not let the apparently overwhelming negative user reviews mislead you. Play it. Give it a chance. Many of these negative reviews where put up within hours of the game being released when it should have taken well over a day (without food or pee breaks) to even complete the game, let alone contemplate it enough to write a review. Don't let yourself be fooled. I'm not joking or lying when I say this game is a masterpiece, and if you're still concerned, most of the people who have actually played this game have positive things to say about it, too.,,The gameplay doesn't change up a whole lot from what already worked in the original game, but it still adds some welcome new mechanics that give the player more freedom and choices. In addition, Naughty Dog has included a plethora of accessibility options so that pretty much anyone can enjoy the game. Did I mention that Naughty Dog has also put a complete technical marvel on display here? From the graphical fidelity, the incredible motion capture, the animation, the acting, the riveting musical score, those hilariously realistic rope physics, and the terrific sound mixing. TLOU 2 does it all better than any game Naughty Dog has ever released and better than any game I've ever played. Not to mention it does it all at a very consistent 30 fps at 1080p or 1440p depending on your console.,,The sense of atmosphere is also an incredible achievement. In fact, there are many moments where the sense of dread and anxiety may be too overwhelming for some who are not used to such intense games. TLOU 2 mostly takes place in a harsh cordycep-infested Seattle, where most of the residents have only survived as long as they have by being ruthless and cruel, and for you to survive, this game will require you to be the same. The people here have formed societies in this city and, sure, not everyone within is as ruthless and cruel, but the ones that are often have more than enough determination to carry out their revenge, regardless of the consequences, and many times at the expense of those around them.,,With all that being said, the main source of all the vitriol and controversy, is of course the story. In my opinion, the story here is vastly superior to the already excellent story of the original TLOU. It has more emotional depth, the characters (villains included) have more depth, and the stakes are much higher and more personal. TLOU 2 is a revenge story and it's a revenge story on more fronts than one. TLOU 2 also explores more complicated themes such as the cost of revenge and the main characters' obsession with it. Revenge becomes the drug that drives our characters and it will drive them to some seriously dark and disturbing depths. Unfortunately for everybody, for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.,,The pacing and editing here is also master-class. For instance, there are a number of flashback sequences this game has to juggle, and each sequence involves different perspectives, characters, and years. Yet, somehow, each one arrives at the exact right emotional moment in the story and allows for new context to be added. Suddenly, a new layer will open up and certain story beats may now make more sense or have new depth added to them. Decisions you thought were right now may no longer be so clear-cut. Suffice it to say, the story will have you actively engaged and you will find yourself pushing yourself forward, eager to learn more.,,Well, for most of you anyways, and that's the true tragedy of all this. There is a very real toxicity out there and this game is releasing in one of the most divisive and toxic times in recent history. TLOU 2 includes powerful female leads and LGBTQ+ characters in its story and for some bigots that may be unacceptable. The most generous and forgiving explanation I have to explain the rest of the backlash is that the story simply wasn't what some people wanted. However, to say this game has a "bad story" is simply wrong. Objectively, the story of TLOU 2 is quite brilliant! Naughty Dog took much bigger risks here and they clearly had their minds made up on what kind of story they wanted to tell. And they delivered. And this game delivers! The story broke my heart, made me cry, and upset me. To be honest, I couldn't tell you the last time a game affected me so. Sure, the story may not be to everyone's liking, and it may not be to yours, but after finishing it, you cannot say it was told poorly. I loved The Last of Us and I loved its sequel. If you played the first game and loved it, as long as you approach the sequel with an open mind, I'm sure you'll love it too.
5362) Naughty Dog could not have made the end of the first game more meaningful than they did in part 2. Of course Joel being killed is a slap in the face; it's supposed to be and drives the whole story. And then that story takes a turn and the person you perceived as the villain turns out to be very human aswell  which is apparently a tough pill to swallow for all these 0 raters that can't distinguish fictional characters from reality. Joel and Ellie aren't some heroes from a comic destined to have great adventures for eternity and live to tell the tale. It's a rough world in which Joel did some horrible stuff and that just caught up to him. Of course everyone has a right to their opinion but I dont get how one could love the first game for what it was and proceed to **** all over part 2 because Joel is killed in a meaningful way. If you really loved Joel so much you should feel like Ellie and be extremely motivated to actually play the game instead of just the first 2 hours. then there's the SJW bull**** that I can understand even less. Ellie has been a confirmed lesbian since Left Behind and shouldn't be a big deal at all. Ih yeah and then there are some Asian characters one of which happened to be trans, you know, like how some people are in the real world. It ties into the story too, in a believable way. The game doesn't make a big deal of it, though, nothing is forced down your throat, it's just there. And although those things being there dont have to be political at all if you choose to not look at it that way but just take it as character trades, what the inclusion of those characters does show us how much bigoted closed minded people there are, who get so angry from a lesbian and a trans character that they feel the need to rate this game a 0 one hour after its release and proceed to spend hours ****ting on the game on social media and send threats to the developers. That last sentence applies to the 'can't get over Joel being killed' people aswell but at least they are not necessarily a bunch of homophobic **** but just can't grasp how amazingly well written the plot of Part 2 is. So long story short; I dont understand the hate this game gets at all. I get that this story might not be for everyone since it's dark and sad and unapologetic but at least go in with an open mind and actually play it.  Just play it. Its such a damn good game from exceptional storytelling to stunning environments, ridiculously good graphics, beautiful soundtrack and overall audio, so many little details and great combat that has some improvements since the original Last of Us (though mostly the same but that's not necessarily bad).,Downside is that the game is so realistic and soaks you into this post apocalyptic world so much that some encounters with infected almost made me crap my pants and made my heart almost explode with fear and adrenaline, especially with bloaters, shamblers and whatever the **** that thing in the hospital was.,Do recommend.
5363) Please if you are not a homophobe nor a 12 years old spoiled kid that only knows to throw a tantrum about everything sit through this 26-27 hours masterpiece of a game and then come and give it a zero. I honestly don't understand all the people nagging about the game, some didn't even played the game for more than 3 hours.,I'm not gonna go through too much detail to avoid spoiling anything. the game carries most of functionalities from TLOU1 and has many new ones. graphic wise it's as beautiful as it gets. the main problem that I had with the game was the character movement, which I got used to and I think I could easily ignore that in my rating. I love the fact that the story was an emotional roller coaster. I strongly believe that it's not everyone's cup of tea but if you are angry because of the story line and gave it a low score just think about the fact that game did what it supposed to do artistically.
5364) Beautiful game about how pointless and futile that the quest for revenge is. Ignore the blind trolling and hate, these people likely never played past the prologue.
5365) The Last of Us 2 is an amazing piece of media, not only as a video game, it is so much more. Sometimes bleak, sometimes heart wrenching, sometimes heart warming, sometimes terrifying, sometimes hopeful, and sometimes dreadful...,,The world, characters, story, gameplay, graphics, sound and music is in a whole different level. A tale of regret, sadness, hatred, revenge and ultimately of forgiveness.,,It's also very large and complex in comparison to the first part, both in length and in narrative. On technical level is a wonder, graphics, animations, small animation and details that puts ND on a new level.
5366) Simply the best game I've played this generation!! Naughty Dog, you have made a masterpiece!! Perfect 10 for me... No doubt
5367) Ok listen up. This game is a Masterpiece, a real piece of art. It goes beyond what the haters and whiners see at the surface.,The gameplay is improved over the first part by a lot and makes you explore more which makes finding secrets more rewarding.,Music is amazing just like the first entry, and also as it is to be expected has some pretty amazing visuals.,Now on to what everyone complaints about...  The story.,Most people complaining have either not played the game and had a part of the story spoiled or have played the game and not finish it..,This game will not tell the story you want it to tell, that is true, but that is also true for life itself. The game does a wonderful job with narrative, deep and complex emotions, amazing support characters and relationships, dichotomy and duality,  and twists and surprises that ultimately reflect human behaviour.,This game goes to show that this is not a fantasy world where everyone is happy, **** happens and how you deal with that and the journey you go through. Also, in case people did not understand it after playing part 1, you are not playing a hero, you are not playing as the good guy, you never have in TLOU.,Summary,Naughty dog continued its trajectory of great story telling and amazing characters all within the world that we all love although this experience may not feel much of a "zombie game",  with the great little touches to the gameplay and music makes this the best work Naughty dog has brought to the industry in as an art form
5368) Not worth any effort trying to convince any of the haters, they are stuck in their mind and nothing will change it... Most gamers aren't even aware of the **** going on anyways, thankfully... I hope, so they don't get pulled away from a unique experience that some seem to struggle getting around with...,I just leave my 10 after finishing the game yesterday with tears in my eyes and say, hopefully it does well and TLoU 3 will not hold back taking a different not necessarily mainstream-popular-route again, just because of some haters, if it ever happens... (And no, I'm not saying one might not hate the game or be bored by it for subjective valid reasons... but what is going on here and in other places is just... sad.)
5369) This game is great and another masterpiece by Naughty Dog. It's definitely a 10 and I'm writing a review to offset the low scores from angry homophobic neckbeards who are mad the story didn't go the way they thought it should and are upset they have to play as a lesbian. Just goes to show how pathetic people in the gaming community are. Angry homophobic neckbeards who are mad the main character of a game is getting laid while they're still virgins. Don't listen to them - this game is fantastic. The story was well written and risky and it paid off.
5370) Only dumb and haters giving bad ratings.. taking game to new direction shows how world of last of us can be expanded!
5371) This game invokes strong emotions and does tell a very human story in a dark world. Great game play, great acting,  great graphics, and overall a very thought provoking story. Its a bummer that so many people are hating without finishing the game, but there is more to this game than i think most people are giving it creadit for. This is absolutely worth the play.
5372) The best game ever. Abby's character is great. The storytelling cannot be any better. However, i would have enjoyed it more if I knew I would be playing as Abby beforehand.
5373) Today, I completed TLOU 2 for 2nd time. This is the fkin deepest game I've ever played. Story is amazing. The gameplay is flawless. I love new characters. And I love that the game is courageously brutal (like GOT). My favorite game ever. 10/10.
5374) Many people wrote horrible reviews without actually playing through the game. Thank you leakers,  you successfully harm all those people who put 7 years of life into this game, no respect at all.,,Back to the game itself, this is the best game in this genre we gonna see at least in 5 years. Astonishing and extremely unique storytelling, top-notch gameplay, and insane amount of details in all aspects.  I like the story but I have to admit it is controversial. I just want to remind my fellow gamers that the fact that you don't like the plot doesn't mean it is not good and if you don't know any of these characters, do you still hate the story?,,All in all, this is a true masterpiece. Salute to all creators of this game, your effort matters hugely in the world of games.
5375) This is the best game in the entire universe, so suck it, you haters and ignoramuses.
5376) I enjoyed every aspect of The Last of Us Part 2.,Gameplay and graphics are top notch, Naughty Dog at peak performance. The story is a brutal and unforgiving journey, splintering the relationships and people we meet and the people we loved from Part 1. After finishing Part 1, I did not need a Part 2. After finishing Part 2, I desperately want a Part 3.,,Go in with an open/twisted mind and you’ll enjoy the direction ND takes these characters.
5377) Master piece. Every detail has been taken care of. Architecture, grass, trees, water, even the wear of time. Just love it.
5378) Stunning story, graphics, music, designs, scenery and characters the last of us 2 is an masterpiece and just like the first game the greatest game of all time. As a fan of the original i think people need to appreciate that naughty dog really did put much effort in this game and not give hate due to the outcomes, character design or if Ellie is into a different sex is beyond belief. This game is based into a zombie apocalyptic world everyone had has to do  in order to survive and people out there will agree with me saying tht haters don't know why they hating it as they follow clout. In conclusion a part 3 will be amazing to see and this is not just the best game of 2020 but one of the greatest games of the entire generation
5379) It's hard to imagine what a sequel to The Last of Us should look like. I was always one of those people who believed that it never needed a sequel, and I think for those wanting one, they wanted an experience like the first one. another adventure with Joel and Ellie. That would have been a safe idea, but instead, Naughty dog gave us a story we weren't expecting, and I am so glad they did because almost every decision they made in this game paid off for me. There were so many moments that I questioned, was frustrated with or even hated, but as the game went on, I came to love the plot and even the structure of the story, which I know many people are mad about. I can understand the frustration of some players, and the game asks a lot of you, to trust the decisions of the game's creators. If you do that I think you'll see the true intentions of this game and walk away astounded as I was. I love this games story. this is a game about empathy, forgiveness, perspective, redemption and reconciliation wrapped and disguised as revenge story that demonstrates the nature of hatred and the cycle of violence up close and personal through the characters eyes and by their hands. its not pretty. Its grotesque, horrific and brutal. The gameplay translates this flawlessly. every combat encounter is white knuckled, because every gunshot and throat stab has a level of detail that is beyond any other game I've played. the controls, animations, gunplay, stealth and melee combat are polished to the highest degree. the way shootouts can transition into brutal slugfests and how you can find yourself jumping back into stealth is so seamless and so natural that I not only find it to be really fun, but one of the most immersive gameplay experiences ever when you include the incredible visuals and level design, character performances great writing and world building. There were moments I was left in tears from sadness, despair, anger and even joy. I cant stress enough how brilliantly this game comes together, but I am shocked to see how many people have pushed against it. In a way it's kind of fitting. I get where people are coming from. Instead of trying to understand each other we are too often irrational and see ourselves as the good guys. but we are all a bad guy in someone else's story to some extent, I'm sure its something most of us are already aware of but don't consider it often enough. this game asks us to consider that, when you shoot down an enemy and hear their friend cry out their name, or are deep in a story moment that frustrates you because its not what you wanted, try to understand why instead of thinking about yourself, because its not about us vs. them, its about all of us and in this fictional case it may very well be the last of us.,for real though this game is incredible, but I get why some people don't care for it. I think the most interesting games and movies are the ones that are a bit divisive as well. I'd give like a 96 if I could review it like the critics. very small things that keep it from a perfect 10 for me.
5380) I don't understand how childish can person be to hate this game. Grow up already.,Game is amazing, must have. It's not want you want, but what you need to hate, to kill every last one of them.
5381) Definitely the best game of current generation. Beautiful graphics, THE BEST facial expressions i have ever seen in a game and that makes a ruge difference in immersion and a simple but perfect soundtrack. The new characters were an excellent addition to the history. It brought me a mix of feelings and in the end, what you understand is that it's not a hero's game, it's a HUMAN'S game and nothing is so simple for none of them.
5382) OMG this's game make me cry? i dont know why people hate ending because it's so good, touching and humane
5383) One of the best ps4 games ive ever played just sayin the story is so much full emotional
5384) love this game,,the game has a very valuable message, outstanding continuation, masterpiece
5385) One of the best game what I've played. The absolutely logical continues of the first part. All characters well revealed. The First time when I felt such a big specter of emotions. Fabulous performance from Naughty Dog!
5386) Just the best game experience in years thanks naughty dog you've created a master piece one more time ! The game is so insane lots of content i love it !
5387) Outstanding game, I have played Last of Us and Left Behind many times both on PS3 and PS4.,I replayed it all again a month ago in preparation for Last of Us 2 and I am amazed at the petulant review bombing.,Ellie's sexuality is strongly hinted at in Left Behind and a number of the comments seem to be disturbingly homophobic.,The other main complaint seems to be that it shows you that NPC's that are slaughtered in their thousands have lives and families and you , to quote Bill Munny, "take away everything he's got and everything he's ever gonna have.",There are many other games that allow you kill everything in sight and a few like Sniper Elite even give you an achievement for clearing the map but this like a few other games shows the consequence of your actions.,The 0 star reviews demonstrate that, despite what the ESRB claim, there is a big difference between being 17+ and being mature.
5388) I waited so many years for this...  and its even better than the first game. Dark, sad story... for the first time, in a game I had tears in my eyes at the end. it's just a unique masterpiece.
5389) Even with all the fan criticism, I still absolutely loved this game. Joel’s death, while underwhelming and a little too early in the story, it was realistic and bada** in a way. A group of people hunted him down, leaving their own people just for revenge, while I’m still sad about Joel’s end, I think it was the right decision to open the game with.,Ellie’s journey from the wanting revenge to finding family with Dina to losing everything for revenge on Abby, that she later learns it is not necessary, and Abbys relationship with Lev is a parallel to her and Joel, was beautiful and well crafted story arch. Then the bold decision of having playing Abby for half the game. The first chapter I was pissed off, but as I continued I found her heart and her character and I grew to like her (although I still wanted her dead the entire game). Her relationship with Lev, like I said, did parallel Ellie and Joel in a different slightly twisted way, and I loved it.,The final conclusion did leave a weird taste in my mouth, with Ellie not fulfilling what she left her family to do and having her end this story alone was a unique choice. And having Abby live was a surprise that I still do not know if I want, but I will accept. I understand why people aren’t happy with the conclusion or the addition of playing Abbys story, but I still believe that the story was brilliant and a true masterpiece. As far sequels go this exceeded my expectations and more.,Also to add, the criticism of the lesbian story line is just ridiculous. We live in a world that this should not bother anyone and it is not pushing an agenda. This is the new normal and people either need to accept it, or just grow up and learn to ignore it.
5390) Fantastic game but not for everyone , intense history, stunning graphics and gameplay.
5391) Fantastic game, surprisingly better than the 1st. Again it has great visuals, gameplay, story & characters. This game is definitely not for the vaint hearted. It's grim, sad, visceral, heartbreaking, but it has some light powerful moments too. Only negatives are I felt they could of added abit more gameplay variety to the already stellar gameplay mechanics. And also not being able to use your ai team member to shoot when you command, like the boy does on God of war. 10/10 Easily GOTY so far.
5392) All aspects of the game are top notch (graphics, sound production and the world as a whole), but more importantly the story. Whoever loved the first one for its ability to play with your emotions, will love this one too, maybe even more. It plays with your emotions as a player again... But this time 'hate' is the main theme, hate that the main character feels and is taken over by it which is correlated to your emotions and as time passes and you proceed through the story you start to have second thoughts about your feelings, as does the main character. The resolution at the end comes a few days after you finish the game and this is what's great with the story, as the first one, you can't take it out of your mind.
5393) Loved it in my opinion its a master piece!!! Haters always gonna hate!!! But its has the best story and message
5394) An absolute masterpiece. Brilliant story. Don't make a judgment based on the circulating hate, play it yourself and see if its for you.
5395) The last of us part 2 is a masterpiece, it made me feel things I had never felt with some other audiovisual work, the ending left me shattered inside by what I had experienced and lost. when we talk about the last of us part 2 we are talking about a trip, an experience that I will never forget and not only is it also the best game of the year and the generation but it is also one of the best games ever and I do not know if the BEST
5396) It has a great ending,I mean I love it.It shows every action has a side effect.
5397) Its an amazing game Everything is great i dont understand the hate good job Naughty Dog!!
5398) Best game ever, better than the first one. Its really hard at the beginning, but by the story pass you just can't get enough. Love it
5399) Thank you, Naughty Dog, for the emotions and story you gave to us. I would never expect that somebody can make me sympathize such character as Abby. Unbelievable!
5400) What a bunch of morons you all are. You all should stop playing games if you can't accept developers decisions. Read between the lines, it's not about the plot itself. This game is going far beyond. A true masterpiece.
5401) Easily one of the best games that i have ever played in my hole life. Great characters, story and graphics. Thanks Naughty Dog!
5402) This game won my heart ı really loved this game its very emotional and sad game :(
5403) Last of Us part 2 is an absolute masterpiece on a ps4, no matter if u have a pro or a common one. Incredible graphics, dynamic battles and a plot that keeps you in suspense until the very end. Despite the fact that the game relies heavily on its predecessor in the series, it has evolved. Characters, like plot twists, are more like reality than ever - there is no place for immortal knights in shining armor, and the main characters are as mortal as any NPC in the game. The moral in the game is gray: emotional slides throughout the game will show that the villain can be loved and the hero hated. This is a true masthead for console owners and a drop of gold in the ocean of mediocre games. The story reached its logical conclusion and allowed the heroes to go along this exciting adventure together with the players.,Gameplay - 10-10,Scene 8-10,Graphics 11-10 (stable 30 fps on every console),Music 10-10
5404) This is the game nobody expected it to be, after a week of thinking of the game. I want to play it again. The more I watch Or play the game the more I’m getting attached to the characters. The gameplay is just as good as the first game, if not better. They know how to pace the game well, in every fight it feels like every bullet matters and you’re on the edge of your seat.,The graphics, Everyone knows how beautiful the game is but did you take notice to the small details?,All the way from the enemies blood dripping on the floor to the realistic glass physics to the healing.,Give this game a try.
5405) To any fan of the first game who's not fazed by social themes, I hope this "review" will find you. First and foremost, I'd give this game a 8/10 for its gameplay and graphics. This is a personal opinion but the 10 I'm giving it really aims for the story because I honestly though this was a masterpiece in emotional storytelling.,,Here's a bit about me. I never ever review anything. I never review games or movies but with this one, I was a little fed up of feeling ashamed for loving it and wanted to give a voice to those who enjoyed it as well. You disagree? That's fine. You want to bury voices like mine for enjoying it? Take a walk.,,The game is obviously divided and I'm not going to get into this because I feel like it's pretty clear. There are many people who honestly hated it and others who honestly loved it. Both are ok but what I have a problem with is those who bombed it (or counter bombed it for that matter). Maybe we'll never have a honest take on how people feel about this game. All I can tell is I loved it.,,I'm a huge fan of the first game so my bias is no less (but no worse) than those who hate gratuitously and even though I feel like they made some very bold choices with this one, I'm more than satisfied. The story was my favorite part. I lived quite a bit through the characters. I was shocked more than once and forced to feel empathy, sadness, pain and many more through the lives of those characters. I lived in their skin and the journey was quite the experience. I'm on my second playthrough. I'm not a bot review lifiting the game. Anyway, I'm not here to spoil the game and I don't want people to live it the way I did. I'm just a little annoyed by all the negative reviews shaming people like me for loving it and making us feel like we don't have a brain because of it. For the record, I'm a caucasian heterosexual male in his 30s and I don't feel like this should be said but here it goes.,,The gameplay was a great upgrade on the first game but it doesn't reinvent the wheel. I give it 8/10 simply because shooting it so painful but I'm a pc gamer anyway. It's still much better than the previous game. Many upgrades in animations and movement, stealth has been upgraded and everything feels like you can regret your decisions much more. If the game had stayed the same as TLOU, I'd give it a 5/10 and I'm a huge fan but man, they upgraded it. I do feel the gameplay stays truthful to itself, I'm just not a fan of it. Maybe I'd change my mind if the game was keyboard and mouse compatible, but I digress.,,All this to say, if the social themes aren't thing that are bound to hurt you, I say give this masterpiece a chance and give it a FULL chance. Don't be stopped by the beginning of it, play through the full thing and appreciate it for the piece of art that it is. Be a freethinker and don't let others, even me, tell you what to do with it. Just, play it yourself and see for yourself.,,Thanks for reading this.
5406) Awesome game. Playing it without knowing any spoiler makes a use difference! Please avoid them if you can and mold your perceptions along the story itself :)
5407) Truly a masterpiece! The execution on the promised mechanics were a delight! Detailed and realistic animations for every basic character animation, stunning AI for enemies and allies alike, enough so that you can tell the differences between three distinct enemies factions and the way certain allies behave being different from one another. Absolutely breathtaking landscape and level design. Really well implemented puzzles that maintain flow and engagement between areas of pure exploration or combat. Not to mention the step forward in terms of accessibility! Most games these days don't even feature the option to fully remap the controls, this game has that and THEN some. I cannot express how wonderful it is to know that this is going to result in an industry wide push towards making AAA games more acccessible, and for that ALONE I would give this game a 10/10. The perfomance by the cast is phenomenal, and the story is absolutely extraordinary. The choice to make the setting an active warzone as the undercurrent to the brewing tension between the two protagonists was a fantastic choice, and works well to build towards the climax of the story. It felt like an absolute dream to play. Could not possibly recommend it enough. I'd give it a 12/10 if I could.
5408) Amazing story that really plucks on the heartstrings.  I understand why some people are trying to bomb the ratings, but think it shows how invested people were in there favourite characters and how no character is safe in a gritty story like the last of us.
5409) Yes this game is dark and depressing and ends in a sad way but that doesnt make it any less of a masterpiece. This game is all about dealing with the repercussions of what Joel did in the first game, because what he did was bad and if you think otherwise then that's your problem. Ellie gets hit the hardest with these repercussions and loses not only Joel but her own humanity, only regaining it at the end of the game. I loved this game and though it was one of the most unique stories ever told.
5410) Not for Everyone, but I like it. Great Story Twists. Technically perfect. Less demanding Gameplay. More a movie than a Game.
5411) Despite the arguable discontinuity and plot holes, The Last of Us 2 is a genius horror game. It f#$ks with the players so well that many can’t deal with it.  There is certainly a way to appreciate this game, but if you aren’t a proper fan of horror, you might not like it. You see, the main narrative elements and techniques are designed to evoke unease, tension and alienation in the player, which are an intricate part of psychological horror: Joel’s cold-blooded murder, Ellie’s mental downward spiral as she gets caught up in her thirst for vengeance, and perhaps most unsettling, the sudden handover to Abby, who is not only the “enemy” but also a female character who challenges mainstream expectations—those arms!—thus creating a deeper sense of estrangement towards the new protagonist. To be honest, I hated Abby when I first had to use her, but part of that was just me being a shallow prick. Yet there was no denying that this narrative twist was something I had never seen in a game, evoking strong feelings of angst and unease. And to think that this was accidental would be taking away due credit from the writers. So, I stuck to it and looked at it for what it was, a bold plot twist, and Abby grew on me. By the time I was returned to Ellie, I felt completely disoriented, which is exactly where the game wanted me to be. Because unlike its predecessor, The Last of Us 2 went full out on the horror elements. And if anyone wonders why everyone in this story is despicable, well, that’s the genre for you, so don’t expect existential optimism. As for the rest of the storyline, I would call it a soap opera. It’s very melodramatic at times, conveniently pieced together in the most awkward of ways, but it accomplishes what it sets out to do: to facilitate amazing scenes that otherwise could not have seen the light of day, such as the final war on the islands, or the final and very disturbing fight between Ellie and Abby (if you’d never played Abby, the shock would have been greatly mitigated). It’s not at all like the first, and I understand people’s disappointment. However, I personally can’t fathom how someone could have expected a sequel after playing the first, since none of it demanded a follow up. The innocence between Ellie and Joel had been slayed, and spending an entire game dealing with Joel’s lie would have been painfully dull. Perhaps that’s why they killed him off, because there was no way around it. Regardless, I also don’t know what people wanted out of the second, and probably neither do they. Making a sequel can be an incredibly daunting task. Perhaps some players might have been satisfied with some inane town builder in which you go out seeking provisions and materials to further expand the settlement, all the while eliminating the infectious in the region. All I can say is thank you Naughty Dogs for not plying to the temptation of creating another mainstream and uninspired game like that. This game was a hell of ride, like nothing I’ve played before.
5412) The story was amazing. The realistic way to show us how the "villain" was not that evil Joel's killer, it was just great. There are too many emotional scenes, it is like a emotional roller coaster. The best part of all of that story, it's the main topic, the cycle of revenge. I think when Ellie decided not to kill Abby, she finished to make her own moral path and finally, she got rid of the pain and hatred of Joel's death.
5413) For me this is more than just a game.  I dare to call it a sort of educational experience as one of the best novels.  Whoever judged it negatively (even going beyond the limit), understands very little of videogames and you deserve to play only **** games.  TLOU2 = An authentic and small work of art.  Congratulations Naughty Dog !!!
5414) This game is different and feels deep. This game is unique in its very own and has given me an impression that I have never actually gotten from any other game. In such an apocalypse, madness is a thing and therefore fear, sorrow, indefinite loss and revenge definitely has its place. Not everything is smooth in reality and things can hurt sometimes. Joel killed so many people to save Ellie in the first part, and that is okay for you haters??? This game proves that everything has its consequences, no matter how painful they are. The leaks spoiled this game. If you read the leaks and that say the game is bad without playing it, you will never get the meant to be experience. It is just like, if you knew Iron-man was going to die in End Game beforehand, you would most likely hated the movie, easily hated it. And that's because you loved him. But since you watched the movie and let the movie lead you to it, you felt it and understood it. Same here. So this game is a must play, and deserves a chance to be understood. If you saw some description of a scene from a leak and say that you can't face it, I have nothing else but to say that you are a **** in front of reality.
5415) After finishing this game I have only two regrets: the first one is that I let myself get affected by a lot of internet comments casting shade on this game and so I did not buy the collectors edition right away, for fear of wasting money on an expensive collectors edition of a game I might not end up enjoying. To be honest, even though I liked it a lot TLOU1 was not my favourite game of that generation, so my expectations were maybe not as high as a lot of other people for the second instalment of the franchise. That being said, I do not understand what is going on around this game. Finished it last night and absolutely loved it. Gameplay was fun and engaging, graphics were the definite best this console generation can offer, and definitely also some of the best out right now, for consoles or pc. Animation is beautiful, fluid and lifelike, the amount of realistic secondary movement goes to show the lengths the devs went to for this game. Story was engaging and heart breaking, characters very, VERY, well written and performed, all of it is truly believable, if maybe not entirely original. Yes, I am aware of all the online shenanigans regarding this game, and I truly do not get it. It seems a group of people feel entitled to having the devs create the game that they want without actually agreeing on what exactly that is. They want to feel good about the decisions made by the characters without realising that is not necessarily the point of telling a story. I have played the original TLOU years ago, and I remember feeling very conflicted about the decision the main character does at the end of it, this game made me feel exactly the same way throughout the whole 26ish hours of gameplay it took me to finish it. There are no perfect characters, there are no true morally flawless characters and I absolutely loved it. Reading through most of the user reviews in this website, and the comments made in other websites and social media I feel like a large majority of the negative reviews are just hate for the sake of hate, which is very ironic since it mirrors precisely one of the main points this game tries to bring across. Is there also hate speech against a perceived attempt at inclusion and diversity by the writers? Probably a portion of the negative reviews, yeah, but I feel that it is mostly just mob mentality, generally in social media, but also following a few select well known youtubers who are starting to sound more and more like egomaniacs completely detached from reality. And I say “perceived” attempt at inclusion and diversity, because that is precisely what it is, I did not feel for a single second that any of the characters or their backstories was in any way tacked on just for the sake of diversity.,Bottom line is, the game is awesome, easily one of the best games I have ever played, polished to a incredible degree in every aspect of it, it definitely gathers all the good things naughty dog has learned throughout the years in one incredibly enjoyable package, thoroughly recommend it to fans of story driven action games. With this, we get to my second regret about this game, which is actually having played it. I now wish I could get my memory of it completely erased just so that I could enjoy it for the first time all over again.,This game affected me so deeply that I’m not sure I can go back to playing other story driven games any time soon after playing TLOU2 without feeling like everything is subpar in comparison with it, so I think I will just do something I have never done before in my 25+ years of gaming, and start playing this again right away just so I can take in all the details that I might have missed the first time around.
5416) Big fan of the last of us 1.  Wasn't sure at first how I felt after finishing Part 2.  I love the graphics and game play portions.  It's such a beautiful and scary game.   As for the story, it stirred up so many emotions that you don't expect from a mere game and is so thought provoking.   I wasn't happy with how it ended but sometimes, real life isn't fair and I suppose if there was a fault, it was not in giving us the happy ending we are all familiar with when we play a game and beat it.   I am still thinking about the story several days after and that has seldom happened with just a game.
5417) The last of us part 2 is amazing. I've played the last of us part 1 more times than I can count, and I felt that part 2 was nothing like I expected and everything I did not know I wanted.,Spoilers below. I understand certain criticisms of the game. But for the most part I think that the negative user reviews come from people who went into the game with preconceived opinions (because they read the leaks) and were never going to seriously play the game with an open mind. And honestly, I think any true fan of the TLOU made sure to avoid any info from leaks. I understand that Joel's death was unsettling, but that was the point. It was supposed to be unsettling. The last of us part 1 was full of surprises and deaths you didn't see coming. It wrestled with the with the topic of whether you, as Joel and ellie, were really any better than those that you were killing. This theme is further explored in part 2 by having you play as the character that you hate the most, and beginning to indetify with them. You see that their desire and passion for killing Joel is exactly the same as ellies motivation for killing Abby. You develop a bond with Lev not unlike the bond between Joel and ellie. I think that the individuals who hated this game basically just wanted the same exact experience that the last of us part 1 gave them. But considering that the characters have lived for 5 years since the events of the first game, it wouldn't make any sense for them to be exactly the same person that they were in part 1. They've grown and changed as people. I love that naughty dog took so many risks in creating this game, but when you take risks you are bound to trigger snow-flake gamers who don't want change. The bond that ellie and Joel have is beautiful, and seeing it further explored is what people wanted. I feel that this game still delivered that, just not in the form that people were expecting. The last of us games are games about love and fighting for those you love, and part 2 were centered around these themes just as much as part 1. And anyone who hated these games because of LGBT themes: well, I'm just not going to change your mind on that so I won't really address it. Basically, I loved this game. I thought that the gameplay was fantastic, fast paced, methodical, and just all around perfectly enjoyable. The story was amazing to experience. The atmosphere and tone were so utterly the last of us. Definitely buy this game. Haters gonna hate, but for once the critics got it right. It is insane how low of scores the butt hurt fans are giving the game. I think they are likely just doing this to tank the rating. I mean seriously, if you didn't like the game, that is fine, but 1 star? Seriously, even if you hated it, it obviously deserved better than 1 star. Fallout 76 is a game deserving of 1 star. You can't honestly say that this game is 1 star bad. If you gave it a 5 or less, I think you are drastically exaggerating any issues you had with this game. But that's all for my rant. Loved TLOU part 2.  Play it with an open mind. You'll love it. Now I am just hoping for some multiplayer. Cuz damn I love factions from part 1.
5418) One of the best games of the outgoing generation. A very strong and touching story, the ending of which does not “let go” you a few days after passing. Great study and great picture. Many thanks to the Naughty Dog team for the work done.
5419) a strong and bold story, quite unusual for the gaming industry. technically strong game from the gameplay side
5420) Honestly I doubt I’ll get to play a better game than this one. Adult, coherent and emotional story. Magnificently written and different to what we are used to play. Definitely worth every hour and it will let you thinking about it for several days after you finish it. If you are willing to shot faceless enemies and sit for a couple hours just not thinking at all, this is not your game. But, if you are ready to explore your emotions and constantly change your mind and question yourself what and why you are doing what you are doing. Just play it.
5421) After playing the first one then the second one right after my God! what an amazing and intense story.   Bravo Naughty Dog!
5422) That was the greatest expierance i've ever had in my entire life. I could play that game every dat and i couldnt feel bored. Pure masterpiece
5423) I was really looking foward for this game and I wasn't dissapointed. I really loved the game, I could even dare to say that I like it more than the first one. I got attached to the characters in a way that rarely happens when playing video games. The hate, the pain and the love that both Ellie and Abby felt, I felt them too, making me more and more excited about the game as it went by. Revenge and its consequences.
5424) ONE.OF.THE.BEST.GAMES.EVER.CREATED.  Amazing actors, incredible music, powerful story. All the people that gave this game a negative review, have either never played or the gave it on purpose. this game is SUPERB. Congrats to Naughty dog and to everybody who have involved in the making of this masterpiece.
5425) The game is absolutely great, I really dont understand the hate that its getting. Aww you poor babies you dont like how a story is being told, even know the story is absolutely 100 percent true to the original and doubles down on the most difficult parts of the original. Maybe If people would play the game and actually see what they're blindly hating things would be different. But as it stands, this game is a marvel on nearly every level.
5426) Excelent game!! Music, the history, all is a 10.,Better of than primary game. Is a must if you love games and have a ps4
5427) This game is magnific. Violence, history, enemys and boss is very real. Congrats ND.
5428) Amazing game, I love the story and the character. I think is the best video game of 2020
5429) I can't believe the response to this game from users. This game is absolutely amazing. It seems like everyone who hates this game wanted the Joel and Ellie story again. If that's the case, then just stick to the first game. Why should Naughty Dog tell the same story again? Naughty Dog forewarned that this story would be about the vicious cycle of revenge and they definitely delivered on that promise. If you can get over Joel's death, which is brutal and heartbreaking, you can appreciate the depth and pain of the story Naughty Dog tells through Ellie and Abby. No one can tell me that some of the backlash isn't because Abby is masculine. I've seen plenty of transphobic videos of INCEL men moaning about this. I researched her character, Naughty Dog claims she isn't transgendered but even if she is, who cares? Does that make her pain any less important than anyone else's? The beauty of writing is that writers can MAKE YOU FEEL a certain way. The only reason why everyone was so heartbroken over Joel is because the writers made us feel that way with their brilliant storytelling from the first Last of Us. But we didn't see the other perspectives. We didn't see the carnage and pain Joel caused with his actions. Stop and think about it for a second. Yes, he loved Ellie. He bonded with her after he thought he had lost his ability to bond with anyone. And so he made the decision FOR HIMSELF to save her. It wasn't for Ellie it was for himself. And he sacrified what was probably best for the world to do it. Both Ellie and Abby lost their fathers and avenged them. They have quite a bit in common as characters. But people don't want to see that because Joel and Ellie achieved pedastal status from the first Last of Us game. It was hard to watch Joel die. I cried like many gamers probably did. But, to believe that only Joel's pain only Joel's feelings matter, is a very narrow way of looking at things. Had the first Last of Us focused on Abby's story, we would sympathize more with her. When I had to play as her for the second half of the game, I was genuinely curious what led her to carry out her murder of Joel towards the beginning of the game. I really started liking her when she teamed up with Lev and his sister. She cared deeply for that boy and put her life on the line for him. What The Last of Us 2 does so well is showcase how the pursuit of vengeance and revenge is never-ending and soul-destroying. Look at what happened to Ellie. She had a chance to move on happily at the Farm House with Dina and JJ. She had a chance to heal. And she chose to leave her family and pursue revenge that in the end she couldn't even carry out. A lot of people also criticize the ending as pathetic because she couldn't carry out her revenge. Again, people miss the point. Sometimes what we fantasize about in our minds can't be realized when that moment comes. She sees Joel's face and has a moment of realization finally that killing Abby won't bring Joel back but it would destroy her. So she stops. She finally stops pursuing this poisonous vengeance mission. She sits in the ocean and lets the grieving tears flow. She begins to heal. She has to lose basically everything to find herself again. I didn't like the ending in the sense that Ellie chose vengeance over the love of her life and her kid but that's a painfully true fact. When you let revenge take over, it consumes everything good in your life. For that reason I think the story is brilliantly told. I thought Dina's character was written absolutely perfectly. She supports Ellie in her first attempt to get back at these people because she loves her and understands her pain. She's a badass ride or die girl and she does more than enough to help. Then, she gets sick from the pregnancy and almost dies at the hands of Abby. Then, at the Farm House, she defends Ellie from Tommy's stupid warpath. He hasn't learned that enough is enough. Dina tries to convince Ellie to let it go and enjoy the good in her life. Embrace the family they have and stay. Ellie breaks her heart and Dina decides to leave. She's gone when Ellie returns because she wasn't going to let Ellie's lust for revenge tear her down too. Absolutely brilliantly written. I think Naughty Dog does a great job of developing Abby. It took several hours of play for me to begin to empathize with her. Do I side with Ellie or Abby at the end? Honestly, more so with Abby because Abby had let it go. Abby decided to place her focus on Lev and taking care of him. Even in her malnourished and weakened state, she fought for him at the end. Whereas Ellie turned her back on what should've been the most important people to her. Aside from the story, the graphics are breathtaking. It feels like you're participating in a movie at times. I just started a New Game+ and I know I'll play this many times over because I'm sure there's more to notice that I missed. Great game, Naughty Dog. The haters are definitely lacking deep thought.
5430) This game is perfect and I have a feeling in a few years people will start appreciate the game more, because this game is supposed to make you feel pain
5431) During my first playthrough of this game I was finding it a little difficult to keep going, not because of the story choices, but because I just wanted resolution of some sorts and through all the character building it took longer than expected to get there. All the combat scenarios just felt like a delay on me getting to the end of the narrative that I was so invested in discovering. Now that I've had time to process and sleep on the game a bit (which it appears like some of you review bombing should have done), this game executes what it wants to. It's a much darker game of hatred and spite, full of revenge and how it's and endless cycle... until someone breaks it. If Ellie kills Abby at the end, Lev would just hunt down Ellie, JJ would hunt down Lev and on and on it goes. Abby and Ellie were both good people corrupted by hatred, a poison that has no true antidote. It's heartbreaking to see the spiral that ensues with a character that we loved but I also felt it was realistic given that Ellie needed her life to have a meaning. Joel selfishly saved her so he didnt have to live with letting down a second daughter, and took Ellie's chance at providing meaning in the world from her, leaving her with so much survivor guilt. Once Joel died, Ellie's existence meant even less as the one person that doomed humanity to love her, was gone. Her life had even less meaning than before (to her). Therefore this revenge tale is not only seaking revenge on Joel's killers, but her hunt to find meaning through justice.,,The gameplay itself is naughty dogs best yet by far, and it definitely leans into it's survival horror aspect more than the first game. No that I've gotten through the story, I am excited to go back and try different tactics and find all the collectibles and platinum this game. Whether you love or dont love the story that was told, this game's narrative has changed how story telling in games will be from now on, much like the last one did.,,To all of the review bombers out there, either you are an xbox fanboy (honestly just make the switch ...I did), or you had actually gripes with the narrative, which is fair! However whats not fair is giving this game anything below a 8, based on it's technical prowess and powerful story (like it or not). It's not a tale of love like the first game, but one that is powerful in it's own way, and I think the more people let the story settle with them, the better and better it will become.
5432) This is best game in this year!!! People play this game, you must understand this game, if you see spoilers about this game, do not be worry, just play this game, feel this game, feel character’s emotions, and I hope you will like this game.
5433) Fantastic. Game number one. Gameplay like in real life, adorable story and characters
5434) Amazing game, can not fault it one bit! If anyone is thinking it will be exactly like the first game, think again! So many plots, surprises and allot of blood and gore! Carries on from the first game but with so many twists to keep you in the game! I don’t know why people are rating it so low it’s such an amazing game and I hope they make a part 3 in the near future from what the ending was like!,Such an experience and I’m glad I paid the money for it ! 10/10!
5435) After some scenes were leaked I joined the hate bandwagon. I genuinely believed the story was a mess and criticised the game and its creators without even going over the whole story.,I've just completed the playthrough and I'm ashamed of all the hate I gave Naughty Dog and Neil Druckmann. The game was actually frickin' incredible. The storyline was multilayered, thrilling, shocking and profound. The characters (along with their dialogues and relationships) were organic, human and didn't feel unnecessary. The graphics were bordering on next-gen. The stealth mechanics were a huge improvement from the first game (which was nearly perfect in its own right).,To anyone who thinks Naughty Dog failed, play the game or watch a playthrough online before you judge the story based on a few disjointed scenes.,I can't decide between a 9.5/10 and a 10/10. Bravo, Naughty Dog.
5436) Incredible graphics, excellent gameplay and plot, as expected from Naughty Dog standards of quality. Very much recommended!
5437) This is a great game. Nice graphics and a non linear history where you got a happy ending.
5438) It’s a tragedy that a little hate-brigade of closed-minded troglodytes has review-bombed a game they haven’t played based on a few early-game spoilers. The game is a masterpiece, perfectly in line with the quality expected of Naughty Dog. There are no forced SJW moments. They are brainwashed. The main theme of the game revolves around the futility of the human desire for revenge when aggrieved, and it handles the subject so masterfully it deserves to be in the pantheon of greatest games ever made, without the shadow of a doubt. A masterclass in graphics, attention to detail, and storytelling. If you are one of the lucky few who have not had the game spoiled, and are intelligent enough to maintain an open mind about an experience you haven't had yet (like a normal person), then you will find tremendous value in this game.
5439) Naughty dogs delivers another gem... Environment is very detailed, and minor world details, emotions on characters faces are shown to perfection.,Game is not for kids, its for grown ups who can digest cruel world of TLOU. Graphics and game play is flawless.,Zombie encounters are exhilarating and human encounters are equally exhausting.,Truly a master piece... Cant wait to replay it in PS5.
5440) Absolute masterpiece. TLOU.......PART 2, you're right. Superb storytelling. Photorealism graphic. Immensive dialogues. Same gameplay mechanics.
5441) This masterpiece is the emotionally hardest game I've ever played. This game broke me. Took me 2 days to recover. I Highly recommend this game.
5442) Finished it, it's not a perfect game, I'm honestly not sure I'd give it a 10/10, but the incels are busy downvoting this game so here goes.,,It's a good game, it doesn't feel as impactful as the first game, but it's still great.,,- Graphics -,The graphics are, as expected really good, among the very best I've seen in any game, what really stands out though is the animation, everything looks natural and lifelike, I felt completely immersed as I was playing, as there was very few things to remind you that you were playing a game.,,- Story -,The story is probably where I'm a little split, it's a perfectly good story told competently, and all the complaints about bad writing followed up with no examples, ring incredibly dishonest to me.,,There were irks though, like Abby's father, he didn't need to be Mr. perfect, for me to sympathize with Abby, so while I understand the need to introduce him, it was laid on a little thick imo. I actually liked the doctor you only hear from in the first game, that let out the monkeys and gets bit as a result, well meaning but probably not the smartest.,There were other minor stuff, but overall, it made good sense and all the characters seemed real and relatable.,The overall story was fine, it never did have the same gut-punch effect of the first game, but there are some really nice details, like the book on Joels counter, that'll only make sense when you learn what Joel did for Ellie, for her birthday.,,- Gameplay -,Despite it technically just being a third person shooter, it played nicely, and feels like it's own game. I really liked the AI, they're not all knowing, but they'll still flank you or sneak up on you given the chance, and you will actually notice differences in the AI wether they are Seraphites, or WLF, a really nice touch imo.,It keeps the gameplay from the first game, in the sense that aiming isn't the easiest, your character will sway a lot, at least early on before you get upgrades, and ammo is scarce, but you somehow never completely run out, no different from the previous.,,- Sound/Music -,Just great stuff, sounds are as good as you'd expect at this point. Music, it's really good, but imo not the kind you go listen to after playing the game, it's very subtle, and I find myself recognizing it if it plays somewhere.,,I'm glad they didn't pander to people who liked Joel and Ellie, I mean we all liked them as characters, but fortunately that first game is still available, and still plays nicely if that's all you want. If you want a new story with incredible detail, and good characters, I'd recommend this game.
5443) One hell of a rollercoaster. I do see why many people are dismayed by this game as there are some decisions that many will disagree with. However, for me, everything clicks by the end.
5444) Amazing experience. It's forces you out of your comfort zone and make you look at multiple points of view. I finished the game feeling conflicted, but I think that was the point. Masterpiece.
5445) Good gameplay, good graphics, stories isn't too bad but I think those flashback we get on the game story more better than the entire game story, REST IN PEACE PAPA JOEL MILLER❤️
5446) One of the greatest games of PS4, by far. Unfortunately homofobia makes some people blind. Ignorance at its purest.
5447) Good story, good gameplay.  It’s just a fun game.  It’s a very dark game, that isn’t afraid of taking risks.  The characters are fun, and have deep backstory and complex motivations.
5448) TLoU is one of my all-time favorite games, and 2 had a lot to live up and delivered in stride. An absolute incredible experience crafted with the utmost care. 10 out of 10 will play again. Thank you Naughty Dog!
5449) An absolute mastery in story telling and empathy from naughty dog. This game is joyous and depressing at the same time. Neil druckmann  was correct when he said that this is not a sequel this is a continuation.
5450) the game fully met all my expectations, if you, like me, avoided spoilers, you will like it at 100 percent, all for which basically hate the game is a trifle compared to the main idea of ​​the game, thanks to the developers for the game
5451) A well crafted and beautiful game, full of emotion and maturity. It's dark, confronting and visually stunning in every scene. Well done Naughty Dog.
5452) A amazing story, that makes you think and wonder about it after the game ends.,A marking and unforgettable experience.
5453) One of the best stories in video games so far. A story not about revenge, but about forgiveness. I hope more games get inspired about creating such strong emotions on players. This is a must of this generation.
5454) Best game. Immersive battle and story telling. Also graphic is crazy. I liked this game. This is best PS4 game
5455) A Masterpiece! I dont understand why there ist so much hate....,This will be one of the best games i habe ever playes for a very long time! Thank you Naugthy Dog!
5456) I was READY to hate this game because of what others thought. I was really mad that Joel died so early in the game. I knew he was going to die (after everything he did in the first one YES he deserved it) But once i got into it DAMN the story was good. Make no mistake there are NO heroes in this game. This is a BLEAK story but if your able to get passed your personal bias and understand no one is the good guy in this game. You will enjoy it, the combat exploration, enemy AI and the expression of everyone face while they fought is just such a massive improvement over the first one. Give this game a fair chance knowing everyone is the villain in someones story and its great.,,Ill say i think the story would have been a bit better if it was not done in flash backs. Seeing Elie grow and her anger at Joel would have made his death less of a surprise for those coming into this game thinking Joel was the hero. I hope for some story DLC but i will say Just like the first game after you beat it once there is no real need to go back in.
5457) Man that made me feel sorrow forthe death of joel. At first I did not like the idea of playing as abby but she grew from this killing machine to someone that had some thing to lose this game was another hit from naughty dog
5458) The story is incredibly powerful and well written. The gameplay is fun, especially the gunplay. Awesome graphics.,Every little detail of this game is dazzling.,Don’t judge it from the spoilers, nothing compares to actually playing it.
5459) amazing game. what an emotional journey it has been. it truly changed me. i want past 3!! Abby and Ellie amare a force of nature. i loved them.
5460) I could not stop playing this! Without any spoilers, this game takes a different turn halfway through a turn that seemingly everyone else was not a fan of nor was I, at first anyway. Its something different and entirely unique and fits well into the first ones ending of who is bad and who is good. Dont go into the game expecting a rehash of the first game. This is entirely different and everything from the gameplay to the complex characters had me gripped until the credits.
5461) Don't get excited. If this is a game that you didn't make, what is the game you made? The best game for ps4 is sure.
5462) Everything about the game is near perfection. Amazing graphics, great innovative gameplay, and despite what people who havnt played the game are complaining about, a well thought out emotional story.
5463) Naughty Dog has done it again . In an emotional rollercoaster this game sets the bar in graphics gameplay and storytelling. True masterpiece ane the best game I have ever played
5464) First of all, please play the game fully through before slandering it as they worked really hard to complete it. Two, the game itself is amazing overall. Yes killing off Joel was absolutely awful, I literally resented playing it like 20 minutes after that death, but I kept going. They really played my emotions like a tiny violin, I was pissed, much like Ellie herself. I murdered every single Wolf and didn’t care, I wanted revenge for Joel. They made me profusely angry when I had to play as stupid buff Abby but I understand why, you’re not going to like her, but sometimes life gives you unfavourable characters that you must deal with. I spent half the time as Abby just letting her get eaten but unfortunately the show had to go on. As it does go on, I start to feel a bit guilty about wanting to kill Abby, I felt compassion for her story. Yes it is annoying that she killed Joel (don’t get me started on how Jesse died, I liked him) but I get to understand both the sides of revenge. It was an emotional story about how two young girls are dragged into violent turmoils due to their fathers or father figures, they were brought into the drama in the worst way possible and their grief, anger and love fuels their need for vengeance. In the end, I understand Ellie not killing Abby, she was tired mentally and physically from her revenge and even though she travelled all that way, it wasn’t worth the guilt and pain after all. Now the ending was a bit anticlimactic but I will give them the benefit of the doubt since I loved the whole game, the ending was left a bit open-ended due to her setting off in search of Dina and JJ (that baby is cute ya’ll). It’s honestly the best game I have played in such a long time and it left me wanting more of Ellie’s story and even Abby’s which I hate to admit (what’s with all the murdering of pregnant women Naughty Dog?!). In short, I hated it, gave it another chance and ended up loving the story.
5465) Definitely a masterpiece. It’s not what you want to see mate? Who cares? Have you watched the walking dead? Characters we learn to love also die there, and at times and circumstances deemed unfair. People who are leaving bad reviews here have either not completed the game or are too childish to grasp the not-so-popular storyline.  The game is about revenge, how far we can go in the pursuit of it. It’s deep and thought provoking, not for children or people who can’t read/understand heavy content. The only aspect of this game I’d change is the decision making element. I think it should be up the players what Ellie and Abby want to do as a result of they have seen and learnt throughout their journeys, specially whether Ellie should accept Tommy’s proposal or even if she (we) should have killed Abby at the very end. Said that, this game is actually much deeper than I thought it would be and as such I give immense credit/recognition to Naughtydog.
5466) The game is actually very good. Sadly the major players wich is reviewing the game are being totally dishonest or being sentimental due the death of a beloved character. That's the only true.,The Last of us Part II is tecnically flawless, combat system way better than we see in the first game, graphics, textures, scenery, soundtracks... Everything is good. The thing is: most of gamers are still imature. Because of trivial motivations they bomb somethings that don't deserve it. The story is genious, unbelieveble and it has to be this way in order to fufill the major intention to show us vengeance and its consequences. Hope we see a GOTY here.
5467) Let's get this settled! This game is nothing short of art.,Visuals, stunning and immersive.,Game-play, intense, challenging and provides those sweet dopamine hits that we all strive for in gaming.,Voice acting is on point.,The story sucks you in and challenges your usual conventions. It pushes you to really analyse the desperate actions of your heroes.,This game brought me to tears, filled me with despair and anger, and at times, increased me belief in mankind's ability to show kindness.,This is not a paint-by-numbers sequel (which is where I think we see a lot of these negative reviews, the other negative reviews, well, I would prefer to not even mention those as I want to keep this about the video game), but do not let that put you off, this game will live long in the memory, It will not only be seen as a beautiful addition to the incredible first game, but a classic in its own right.
5468) This is a very good story with a lot of twists and a final that will make you feel sad but that's definitely a good ending for this story, the berfect example of the "butterfly effect". Many people were disappointed about Joel's death but you can't rate 0 only beacause your favorite character is dead. Graphics and gameplay are also amazing.
5469) In the world of tlou there are no heroes or villains, and not everything is how we want it, it's the f ****** end of the world !!!,First the game makes you angry and then sad as never, I never felt emotions playing video games like I did with the last of us 1 and part 2
5470) Don't understand the hate. I'm huge fan of TLOU and part 2 is simply a masterpiece!
5471) No piece of digital media has been as impactful as this game. The ending was much more than I expected it to be.
5472) I've just finished my 2nd playthrough, and my only complaint with the game was that I had to turn on a few of the navigation accessibility options to get through some of the more challenging and/or open levels and puzzles. I think that's more of an issue with me as a player, and a credit to the studio for allowing me a solution. So, after finishing the game twice, and helping my girlfriend who is also playing through it now, I'd say the hate is at worst toxic and at best hyperbolic. There are some decisions I'd prefer changed, in regards to the order in which the story beats play out, but that's a minor gripe when I can sing high praises for the other parts of the story that I loved. Even if you don't necessarily like the story, the gameplay and technology on display here is insane. I played through very stealthy on the default difficulty the first time and it was fun but standard stealth action fare; it was when I let loose on a custom difficulty and just faced the music head on that the game really shined for me. You will see bits of gameplay that you'd swear were a cutscene. It's mesmerizing. It's a very violent good time.
5473) Wow... what an experience! Enjoyed every second of this masterpiece. Thought provoking, complex, bleak... In all the best ways. This one is going to stay with me for a long long time
5474) Imagine if those leaks never happened. Players would concentrate on the whole story, without specifying certain moments. No one would play the game with leaked scenes in mind. Just try to perceive the story as a chunk, not in pieces. Maybe THEN you will understand.
5475) It will break your heart, if you are a last of us fan. I will not say this game was for ''FUN'' but it really intrigued me to play and I was fueled by anger whenever that scene was shown again in the flashbacks and A player cannot form an own opinion of this game without playing it. And i am not asking anyone to play it I am just expressing my opinion.
5476) The last of us part 2 is an intentional divisive story that truly explores the consequences of revenge never before done in a video game. Characters are real, flawed and the story is hard to go through. But again intentional.
5477) I don‘t understand all the hate.,The story was amazing. Gameplay was thrilling. The atmosphere was the best that i‘ve experienced in a game to date. Play the game, then make your review.
5478) Part 2 takes a very different approach than the first game but exceeds the first in pretty much every way. Gameplay, cinematics, character development, all of it. Side characters actually have an emotional impact on you where in the first game they just felt like plot progression points. If you can get past Joel’s death and keep an open mind, this game is a very rewarding experience. You go from despising Abby and not wanting to play as her to empathizing with both sides and not wanting her to die. By the final fight any thirst for revenge you have is gone. For me the only negative of this game was not much dialogue between ellie and joel. However, its a continuation of the story and I think it acts perfectly as that. One of the best games i’ve ever played.
5479) This game will become a cult like the first part, and I do not want to be one of those who hate it. Yes, of course, there are flaws in this game as in any other, but there are tens of times more pluses, an excellent elaboration of details, graphics and pumping are beautiful. And this is the last chance to touch the fate of Ally and this is not forgotten.
5480) A strong contender for the game of the year. The game play is incredible and the story is the best. I hope that the suscess of the game makes that there more inclusion
5481) I literally created this account just to combat the toxicity of these reviews. It's clear so many people felt like they deserves a Joel + Ellie game, but that's not what they got, and that's fine. However, to say a game is bad, give it horrible reviews and accuse the director of being a rapist is straight self-centered and childish.,,This game is amazing, with complex characters, narratives, and innovative story telling that rivals most good novels. From start to finish, there's nothing about this game that isn't well thought out and crafted.,,Shut the **** up salty cuck boys, this games got a ten. **** you.
5482) Amazing story, ai and graphics! Gameplay not much improved but it was not a problem. It has a place in Top 5 games os the decade for sure! Must buy if you have a Playstation console.
5483) TLOU2 SPOILERS BELOW.,,Please don't read below if you haven't completed the game.,,1)Some argue that Ellie killed so many people to get to Abby but then let her go.,,It is because she sees JOEL in Abby. Had she killed Abby then Lev wouldn’t get the same care she got as kiddo.,,People argue that Joel could sense ambush but he & Tommy walked straight in to an ambush in TLOU2,,This game happens years after TLOU. There are lot of people who travel the country to do trade with a settlement,,Joel traded a lot & He could have assumed Abby's group as traders,,Why Ellie goes again after Abby?,,It's not just because of Tommy visiting them but Ellie's own trauma of losing Joel brutally haunts her.,,So she wishes to end it by confronting and killing Abby or being killed. But she sees Joel in Abby and so she let's her go and finds peace.,,It's Abby who actually loses more than Ellie in #TLOU2,,Like many even I hated to play the game as Abby from day 1. But as the story progressed it became intense.,,Every QTE scared me.,I wanted both Ellie & Abby to live. That's what this game does.,,At last as,@PaulTassi,pointed out It's Abby who actually loses more than Ellie in #TLOU2,,Like many even I hated to play the game as Abby from day 1. But as the story progressed it became intense. Every QTE scared me.,I wanted both Ellie & Abby to live. That's what this game does. That's why I would rate this game as MASTERPIECE
5484) This game is very great,Goty 2020,Best game to world thank you naughty dog,Last of us par ll
5485) In the end, I think the experience is highly rewarding and truly unique. Rarely has a game provide such a rounded, multi-angle insight of all the different characters of a world, and not just one side’s struggle or heroics.,The story consistently reiterating a theme that was present since the ending of TLOU 1: Is this killing OK? Shouldn’t I try to save this person? What if that means killing someone else? Sometimes there are just no good choices.,There is a huge twist somewhere in the game that the developer took a big gamble on, and I believe a lot of the controversy or hate of the game came from there. But that very same twist is also what makes this game so rewarding. The complex emotional journey I experienced playing it would not be possible without that twist.,Gameplay-wise, some levels dragged on a bit long; I wish there was less time spent scavenging but overall a largely exciting, mainly-steath gameplay that allowed considerable freedom in most levels.,Bottom line: I would recommend this game wholeheartedly to anyone who appreciates a gripping, dark, unique, and emotional experience rather than a one-sided 'hero' journey.
5486) Magnificent game, gameplay, mechanics and story more emotions my experience the Last Of Us Part ll it's incredible my opinion personal ok haters
5487) Everything is perfect. It makes no sense to criticize this game just because the story didn't go in the direction you wanted. The gameplay is simply stellar, with almost infinite possibilities and situations that are never the same. The gameplay of Ellie and Abby are different from each other but equally beautiful. The writing and the plot in general are worthy of the best hollywood film and the journey made by the two protagonists is truly special, especially that of Ellie. Unfortunately this is a game that is not suitable for the general public given the depth and difficulty of the themes and how they are shown to everyone. A journey into Ellie and into the human mind that not everyone could understand, but we know that masterpieces are not always recognized by everyone. The swan song of PS4, and also an unreachable point for any other title
5488) It's difficult to talk about this game without addressing the elephant in the room. Obviously, the tragic death of Joel is a controversial and divisive move. But many of those fans who either didn't actually play the game, watched on YouTube or read the spoilers and decided to instantly review bomb based upon this need to learn how to deal with loss. It wasn't done as a cheap shock tactic. The death of Joel is literally the driving force of the entire plot. It would have been so easy to make a game where Ellie and Joel set out on another cross country adventure. It would have been popular with fans and sold well. But it was not the story that was told, nor was it destined to be. What instead unfolds is a tragic and bleak look into the consequence of revenge. The sheer discomfort we feel at learning about the darker sides of our favourite protagonists, as well as the slow realisation that they were never really the good guys begin with, is an unpleasant sensation. It doesn't sit well with us, especially when compared to the relatively uplifting story of the first installment.,But the story progresses, and we delve into Ellie's hate driven revenge quest. And its brutal and cathartic, while dotted with sweet moments of earnest love and nostalgic visits to museums. As we start to see these memories become darker, and the consequences of the first game begin to manifest in broken trust and estrangement, so too do we see present day Ellie fall deeper into a pit of despair and hatred. Its uncomfortable, particularly when she makes certain unforgivable decisions. We want to change her actions but we can't. And that's really what makes it so powerful. This is not "poor writing" - it's a testament to how much we have grown to love and genuinely care for these fictional characters.,And then the second major divisive decision comes into play at the midway point of the game. Spending the second half playing as the character you hate the most, and have just spent hours hunting relentlessly, is at first incredibly jarring. The second wave of 0 score reviews from people who actually did play the game almost certainly stemmed from this. I get it. Why would you want to hear what Abby has to say? You don't care, you just want her brought to justice. That's how I felt initially, and I spent my first hour or so as Abby feeling very apprehensive. However, by the end of Seattle Day 3, I didn't hate Abby. In fact, I was almost rooting for her. I grew to love her as a strong protagonist. I liked Owen, even if he was a bit of a douchey bro. I liked Manny, he was a decent human being who just wanted to take care of his father. I liked Mel, who had no interest in hurting anyone. And I absolutely fell in love with Lev and Yara, and their entire overarching plot.,I didn't want Abby to die. I didn't want Ellie to die. But they both did terrible things with similar motives. The final few hours of gameplay were incredibly tense, stressful, and emotional. I have never experienced anything quite like TLOU part 2 in any other form of media. I understand people who legitimately played the game to completion and still didn't like it. It's not a happy game, nobody is a winner and everyone is a villain. But i absolutely loved every second of it. For me, it was an absolute masterpiece of storytelling, and it will stay with me for a long time. Unquestionably 10/10.
5489) Never in my life, a game made me feel so emotional and brutally moved. This game was spectacular and a land mark on videogames, I feel that it changed something inside me.
5490) The Story is unpredictable, sad, and disappointing just like life. These haters are the people who disappointed because the story is tragic and painful.,If you played the last of us part 1 and you loved it, it doesn't mean you gonna love the second part as well.
5491) This game has lived up to my expectations, definitely give it a go if you enjoyed the first one
5492) When I first finished the first TLOU I wished Naughty Dog wouldn’t make a sequel to Joel and Ellie’s story, because how could they follow that up? TLOU part 2 story blew me away. They really did manage to create a wonderful, painful, follow up. And on the gameplay department, it perfected everything from the first game. 10/10
5493) I first hated Abby but now that I think about it. There is no “bad” or “good” person it is all about perspective. it’s obvious that Abby would kill Joel because he killed her dad. But in Ellie’s point of vue she just saw a woman killing someone that she loved. And if I was in Abby’s position I would have done the same thing. And the fact that Ellie didn’t kill Abby at the end makes the game even more depressing and I love it! Like if TLOU2 was just about Joel and Ellie that were still alive it would like the first fame except they were older
5494) The game has a pretty ok story and good gameplay, but most importantly the thing that made it a 10/10 game is that you can pet the dog
5495) This Is te vote was deserved Imagine me and you, I do,I think about you day and night, it's only right,To think about the girl you love and hold her tight,So happy together,If I should call you up, invest a dime,And you say you belong to me and ease my mind,Imagine how the world could be, so very fine,So happy together,I can't see me lovin' nobody but you,For all my life,When you're with me, baby the skies'll be blue,For all my life,Me and you and you and me,No matter how they toss the dice, it had to be,The only one for me is you, and you for me,So happy together,I can't see me lovin' nobody but you,For all my life,When you're with me, baby the skies'll be blue,For all my life,Me and you and you and me,No matter how they toss the dice, it had to be,The only one for me is you, and you for me,So happy together,Ba-ba-ba-ba ba-ba-ba-ba ba-ba-ba ba-ba-ba-ba,Ba-ba-ba-ba ba-ba-ba-ba ba-ba-ba ba-ba-ba-ba,Me and you and you and me,No matter how they toss the dice, it had to be,The only one for me is you, and you for me,So happy together,So happy together,How is the weather,So happy togethe,We're happy together,So happy together,Happy together,So happy together,So happy together (ba-ba-ba-ba ba-ba-ba-ba)
5496) Simply... Game Of The Year!,The last of us part II is a complex of hate, revenge and the complete opposite which is love, forgiveness and letting go. You can hate it as much as you want like it or not, it’s a masterpiece.
5497) The Last Of Us Part II is pretty good. The death of Joel is pretty disturbing. I never cried that hard on a game's cutscene, even the Title scene made me teared up. The Gameplay is really long and sometimes it gets boring, that's why i play 2-3 hours everyday. The storytelling is pretty weird. It's not what i expected when i bought the game.,The leaks are pretty disturbing, I think Naughty Dogs made the Trailers different by adding Joel in "that one scene" is probably because they want to keep it a secret that Joel died in the game. I feel like the story is focusing more on Abby than Ellie, which what i thought the game was about Ellie. I won't say that the game is straight up garbage, but the story is not what i expected at all even though is really unique. It's not really that bad.
5498) Personally, I absolutely loved this game but that’s just my opinion. I can completely understand why it isn’t for everyone, however. I think a lot of people have missed the point entirely when it came to Joel dying. The whole point was to be angry about it to put you in Ellie’s shoes and feel what she’s going through. This couldn’t have had as much of an impact if it was anyone else who died so it was a huge sacrifice for the needed response. That being said, I realise why that would put a lot of fans off and all I can say is if you give this game a chance, you’ll be greatly rewarded. With that out the way, I think the story was very well paced and had lots of interesting twists and turns. I was definitely resistant to play as Abby initially. I was convinced there was nothing Naughty Dog could do to make me like her, but by the end, she really grew on me. This is partially down to the great story telling, but also because the acting and level of detail in the facial animations really conveys the emotions of the characters. I think it goes without saying that the graphics are without a doubt, the best this console generation has ever seen. Naughty Dog never fail when it comes to the sheer level of detail fidelity and the result is outstanding. There were so many occasions I just had to stop and look around to really take in this amazingly well crafted world and I loved it. The gameplay, admittedly, is a little clunky and outdated. There’s one scene where I was trying to ride a horse and sprint with it holding L1 and also aim a gun with L2 and that just isn’t a comfortable way to play for me. That being said, the controls didn’t bother me that much because the battles felt really incredible to play. So much raw explosive power accompanied with incredible animations, satisfying sound effects and really tense music made such an exciting game. For me, this is the best game I’ve ever played and I’d have massively missed out if I payed attention to the amount of hate this game has got. If you’re on the fence about playing it, just get yourself a second hand copy when it’s cheap and see for yourself, you won’t be sorry you did.
5499) So the game is not a 10 points game, but overall is a really REALLY good game with a complicated end-of-story.,It is NOT a 3 Game or 2 game for god's sake at the end every think starts making sense.
5500) I get why people are hating on this game but honestly it's not for everyone n i personally liked it(pls don't hate me). Some of the reviews does not even make sense, i can only say don't judge this game like a sheep , play it urself n form ur own opinion , still if u don't like this game i respect ur opinion just don't be like who have not played it and spreading hate on this game everywhere. The leaks were so unfair for this game.
5501) This is top) I lovelest this game) This is very nice game)))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))
5502) An incredible journey of repercussions. Emotional, enthralling, brutal, nuanced, fantastic. A masterpiece. From start to finish I was hooked, and I enjoyed ALL the characters. Magnum Opus.
5503) Best game I've ever played, but very emotionally complicated and difficult.  I thankfully avoided spoilers, but read them after, and would have been upset at reading just the spoilers.  The experience of the game is VERY much more nuanced and intense, and ended up being a masterpiece.
5504) The game is just incredible, and show how you can lose yourself with the vengeance. The game has some narrative problems, and it's a bit hard to connect with Abby in the game. But, anyway, made me cry in the end.
5505) So much emotions. Wanted this to end differently but could not say this game does not give you chills
5506) Okay I know you don‘t like the Game really a lot. But in my opinion it’s fantastic, the gameplay and the graphics are really fantastic. And this is the life end of this console generation. The story is great for this wait. The switches in time and from the personal perspectives between Ellie and Abby and see the situations in different eyes are crazy. Better than in halo 5 guardians
5507) A truly outstanding masterpiece of storytelling. The Last of Us Part II is brutal and relentless and it does not let you off easy. But it’s voice is very unique which I respect a lot in the modern gaming landscape (of sequels) that often just takes the obvious safe route. The technical quality of the game is awe inspiring. The art, animation, controls, audio, quality of coding and quality assurance, you name it. Everything has been done with such care for details that I feel very fortunate to having been able to play through this game. The story really hit me in the feels and I ended up crying a couple of times - and feeling sorry for people who don’t get to experience this due to ”not liking video games”. From the bottom of my heart, thank you for the experience everyone at Naughty Dog and everyone else too who had something to do with this game getting made!
5508) This game is perfection in everything. I loved Abby, she's by far the best character in the game. I hope Naughty Dog will give us a part 3 with her and Lev as main characters!
5509) This is one of the best emotion games that everybody should try and do not stop playing after the very first 2 hours of the game.
5510) I just finished the game, but let's get one thing out of the way.. . It has become popular to hate this game. Even before the game got released. I find it very very childish to give a game a zero just because some people don't like it. There are threads on reddit and other places only about telling people to review bomb this game with a zero. How serious is that? So because some people don't like the game, they are telling others to give it a zero, just to get the overall score down.,,The game is about hate and revenge, and everything you do has a consequence.  You are going to see that in this game.  The way they took this game surprised me, but I actually liked it.,For me it was fresh and new, seeing things from different views.,,But as Neil Druckmann already said before release. People that loved the first one, may not like part 2, and I guess he was right. This is not a game for everyone, but for the ones it is, it surely is a masterpiece.,,If you just exspect more Joel & Ellie story, do not buy this game.  But if you are open minded and want something new compared to the first one, I think you should give it a try. Even if you wait a year or two when its cheaper. It's not the same as watching someone on twitch or youtube. At least not for me..,,As some other user reviewer said. This is not  Ellie and Joels story, this is the story about the last of us!
5511) The story of the relationship between these two people, so marked by personal tragedies (his, the death of his daughter on the night of the outbreak that started the collapse of civilization; hers, a tragic loss followed by the discovery of being the only known human immune to cordyceps), it was the work that elevated Naughty Dog to the pantheon of great game character developers, and the reason why the sequel is so awaited.,GOTY 10/10
5512) I just barely beat the game all the way through and the ending left me feeling hollow. I don't know if this deserves a full 10... I'd honestly give it a 9 - 9.5. However, I can see how this game isn't for everybody. It isn't a game that is about happy feelings. It is raw and real in a lot of ways. I personally hate what they did to some characters, but that is what made it so good. I felt those raw emotions and it isn't something that games do to me very often. It is dark and depressing and honestly the first of its kind. I'd recommend playing it all the way through as well, before judging.
5513) I feel bad, but I accept what the writers of this wonderful story have chosen.
5514) One of the best games ever. Excellent story and excellent graphics,You have to play it.
5515) The game is great, painful and depressing, but i regret non of it! Kudos to all the people who worked so hard for this game! Yall amazing
5516) This is a fantastic, exhilarating, emotional game that will be looked back on as truly genre defining. Disregard the negative reviews as there has been a campaign by sad individuals to discredit this game. The story TLOU2 takes you on is a bold one with a few twists that won't be for everyone but by the end the narrative comes together beautifully to tell a story about the cyclical nature of violence, trauma and forgiveness. This is one of the best games released so far this year and the majority of people who have ACTUALLY PLAYED IT will tell you exactly that.
5517) The game was awesome . Gameplay 10/10,Graphic 10/10,Sounds 10/10,Every thing is really good . About story , it could be better but the writer used a diffrent method of telling the story and that when you finish the game make you love it or hate it . I loved that cuz it show us a halfway story in the first and countinue it to complate it in the end in a new and maybe a nice method . But the destiny of some chracters maybe not good for every but it is what happend in a fully vengeans way and its what the writer want .
5518) This review is for you who do not know whether to buy it, I have seen comments stating that it is a terrible story, without foundations of who wrote that review, you should not believe anyone, this is a game that you must experience yourselves, personally it has left me a lot of emotions, the technical level it reaches is impressive, on top of the graphics, gameplay and many other areas, a different game in many ways, who dared to create more serious and unique content so far, you believe that after having a success like the first part, would you risk giving us something meaningless?  What 7 years of elaboration just so that we did not like it?  Of course not, those are ill-intentioned comments, I consider that it is one of the best games in history, I would say that the best but I want to be neutral, there will be people who do not like it so much due to the topics they touch and why they want everything  It is perfect as in cheap novels, this is a game that wants to show another perspective, it will leave you an opinion and it will surely be very different from each person who plays it, I wish that many more games are like this, that they play with the player and create that  feeling of playing with your emotions, I regularly do not give reviews even if I like games, but I felt the need to tell you my experience, I am sure it will be game of the year, in addition to practically dismissing this generation with a masterpiece, the important thing is that you  in the end you will enjoy this game and want to share what you felt, just play and enjoy.
5519) Does everything better than the first one. In every way possible. A must play/have for any Playstation story driven fan out there.
5520) Another amazing emotional rollercoaster from Naughty Dog.,Visual masterpiece,  gameplay has some new twists over the first.,The Story seems to be divisive - some negative reviews giving it 0 mostly because they didn't like the plot points which is just crazy and small minded.,,It really made me think and feel and challenged my emotions so 10 out of 10 from me. If you invest yourself in it, you'll be an emotional wreck by the end.  Also some of the scariest **** you'll see in a game in a long time.
5521) Argh **** it. Let's give it a 10 to counter all those review bombs from those who actually have never played the game. My friend had and he says it's a ten so this is his score anyway,Too many zeroes. No game in existence has a zero. To take anyone review seriously, there would be a score average that takes graphics, sound, gameplay into account and this game had the best visual fidelity on this generation period. What is wrong with people. I think take away people's opinions. Leave it to the professionals. Give the public jury duty and they send innocent people down just by looking at them. Give people the vote and we have trump and Boris in power. **** idiots the humans.,The other zeroes will be xbots. So as soon as the next halo comes out on xbox series x. Im giving it a zero for great graphics but crap story
5522) I don't really understand bad ratings of this game for me it's great story showed with beautiful graphic, a lot of details in realistic citi's model. Gameplay is also great and really elaborate.
5523) The game is wonderful. A worthy continuation of the first part. Gameplay and visuals of the highest level.
5524) This game is beautifully written, with deeply complex and challenging material that forces you as the player to align with characters unexpectedly and to empathise with their decisions. The visuals are unparalleled and the attention to detail is in a league of its own. I found myself caring more for these characters than I ever anticipated and felt the weight of their decisions and motives with every step.  This is a game that needs to be experienced first hand. Easily GOTY. Don’t be fooled by small-minded individuals who cannot comprehend the deeper meaning to this absolute masterpiece.
5525) Incredible.,No other words.,There has been already written so much about this game.,People who give this piece of work a zero are simply trolling. It’s impossible not to admit that naughty dog has created yet another masterpiece.
5526) Those who give this gorgeous  game a low score, referring to LGBT propaganda, simply did not play it.  Thanks to the developers for the tremendous work and effort.  I got unrealistic pleasure while playing this game.  Tears welling in his eyes.  Buy and play.  For her sake, you should even buy ps4.
5527) The story makes you see the consequences of your actions from another perspective, it makes you feel bad for what you’ve done, and I think that’s why most people are hating it, they don’t want to face the consequences. Very good gameplay, perfect graphics and design, and a really deep story.
5528) This game is amazing it wows and surprises you, feeling so many emotions. Its a cinematic masterpiece with outstanding graphics. Its a must play. It doesnt deserve the 0s thats it getting. I simply love the game
5529) Storywise the game is just amazing. The game really played with our feelings and showed how things were from the opposite perspective. I really loved the ending and I think it was the best choice. Abby dying wouldn't fit Ellie's character.,The gameplay is just phenomenonal, the map gives you the feel of an open-world and there is a lot of things to explore. The environment and the ways you can react with objects is really good too.,It really sucks that there were leaks and that helped the game get even more hate. I personally loved it and it's more than i could have asked for. Congratulations to Naughty Dog for making this masterpiece!
5530) Some people complain about the story and Joel being killed 3 hours after you start the game. However there is a point. Because it's not a story about a revenge. It's a story about forgiveness. Joel decided to save Ellie instead of making a vaccine and saving humanity. He made a selfish choice and it damaged his relation with Ellie and later on Ellie decided to hunt Abby down in California and that damaged her relationship with Dina. Ellie wanted to try to forgive Joel for what he's done and then he got killed for his actions. It's a masterpiece in storytelling. The best game I've ever played right after the first TLOU.
5531) a true masterpiece.  Full of feelings, anger, hatred, empathy and even love.  This is easily one of the best games ever created.  With a history where there is no protagonism and favorites.  There are only survivors there.  I loved the game and the message it sends!
5532) I have no words to say about this game. Still in the midst of processing all the emotions but I can honestly say that I love every second of playing it. ND done it again :)
5533) The best game of this generation. No doubt one of the best games in history, able to change what you feel during the game. Intense. Everything can change, even your opinion about the characters. All i can say is the best experience i had in a game in years, and I can’t understand the hate this game is receiving right now, it’s makes no sense.
5534) I have just completed the Last of us part 2 and it is seriously the best game i have ever played, and i went into it thinking that the Uncharted Series, Last Of Us 1 and God Of War couldn't be topped, please ignore all the negative reviews that talk about the story being bad the story is just second to none most people on here are only saying they don't like the game because the main characters are female and that is sad, this is a mature game with a deep meaningful story that will have you on a rollercoaster of emotions throughout, this game needs to be GOTY and in my opinion is the best game of all time.
5535) Many people absolutely hated the game and many loved it. Compare to the ending of the first game, the second game’s ending is more controversial, but is it bad? No, It’s not. Is the story of the second game bad? No, it’s certainly not either. First of all, I would like to address one issue. Many people calling it woke. Ellie was shown as a homosexual even in the first game, so idk why these people are complaining now. People happen to be gay or straight, and Ellie just happens to be gay, what’s wrong with that? Second of all, just like in real life, stories happen to people regardless of your sexual orientation. So what if Ellie is gay, as we can see from the plot of game, her sexual orientation wasn’t even the focus point of the game, her struggle with her emotion and inner conflict is. A lot of people felt like certain characters’ deaths were a little rushed. Well, that’s what death is like in real life, I’ve lost family members in my life and their deaths were just like Joel, Jesse or Owen’s. It comes when you are not expecting it, it comes suddenly and you will never be prepared for it. So in that sense, these people’s deaths are real, it’s hard to take, it’s emotional, and you never expected it. It only takes one things to kill someone and people tend to underestimate how vulnerable they actually are.
5536) I didnt get spoiled, but i already know about the leaks and reviews. I played all and discover the story and character development by myself. I was ready to finally play a bad game fron ND, but it wasnt like that. This game is a masterpiece, the first half of the game is already good, but the second half show us another side of the story, and it is dificult for us like spectator deal with other side and points of view, nothing is like we tough. Thanks for this game, thanks for give us a little joy in this 2020.
5537) Love this game. Beautiful atmosphere, very detailed Seattle, intensive and brutal gameplay. Everything is magnificent. People love Walking dead as one of the best post-apocalyptic franchize, I love it as well. Why people hate this game, and still say TWD’s best seasons are the 5th and 6th. Death of the main character is one of the moments people love in GOT or TWD. This game is much more deep and mature. Ať the beginning, you think Abby is absolutelly worst character in this story, she’s ugly and IT doesn’t make any sense to have this new playable character around. But after 20 hours of playing, you create a bound to her, and in a final fight against Ellie, you are devastated because you love both of them. This game is a great continuation of our beloved first TLOU game. I want to thank Naughty dog for making this art.
5538) The closest to human a game ever reached. Everything here is cruel, raw and evil, and it looks like what the world would turn into if society crumbled. It's not about Ellie or Joel or Abby: it's about survival and vengeance. I can't express how surprised and shocked I was with every detail on this game. The visuals, the environment, the cast, the creatures tell the story of a terrible fate and its consequences. It's a brilliant game, long and specially pretty, with the most realistic depiction of grass and foliage I've ever seen in a game. Get yourself lost in this story, and feel everything on these characters skin.
5539) I defended myself against all the spoilers, even before this game's release.,I took 2 days off from work to play this game at home.,My verdict is: DO NOT TRUST THE MASS MAJORITY OF "GAMERS".,This game is a Masterpiece. By all honesty.  Contradict to what most other "gamers" insist, the story of this game really shines. Although an intense and grief inducing tragedy, it is still the most thoguht-provoking and emotional story ever told in this medium. Please, if you have any respect to good game and narrative design, please buy this game and play it, do not trust the mindless majority who police any comments that praise this game.
5540) Amazing. Just, wow. I don’t know what all the hate is about, but this is easily one of the best video games ever made. Give it a shot.
5541) Amazing atmosphere and a great ending. But the second part of the game, is in my opinion a little bit to long. All in all ist The Last of Us Part II one of the best games I ever played. The death from Joel is unexpected and very hard. At first I was very angry about this decision. After a few days, I think that was the right decision from Naughty Dog. I can´t understand the bad reviews. In may opinion Naughty Dog did a good job.
5542) Masterpiece! I'm speechless once I finished the game. You can tell that people who rated this game early with low scores are those who didn't understand the true meaning of the story
5543) I have just completed the game. Never felt compelled to write a review on here before but I wanted to when I saw some of the genuinely confusing low reviews. Lots of people saying the game is visually amazing, great gameplay but they don't like the story and giving the game a zero? Bizarre!,This was easily one of the best games I have ever played in my nearly 4 decades of gaming. Incredible visuals, realistic characters with complexity and depth and a great story which does do justice to the series!
5544) Very enjoyable game, hours and hours of fun and a catching story, in this Game you can see the two sides of the dime , it's fantastic
5545) I understand the quality and sound, dubious, and in the video itself Do not judge strictly because this is my first post on the site ...,Perhaps this is all that needs to be done to make our impressions impressive. You need to play this movie, but why did the developers go for such a risky scenario, why did they say that the game has improved NPS intelligence, but in fact these are all the same stupid zombies / bandits from the first part of the game. Why we were deceived in the Trailer, why in the game we played in a community of people. I want to break the most basic (in my opinion).,,Why was it necessary to add so much LGBT and feminism?,I want to say, when I watched the game for the first time, I didn’t notice anything that the hand of feminism could touch and LGBT people don’t want to speak for everyone, but I really didn’t see that agenda, someone can argue and say that it’s here, but please take other games that were made a year or 2 ago and you will notice that TloU2 is the smallest propaganda that you have ever done, you have the right to challenge me because I do not pretend to be the role of the most inattentive person (ready to answer any a comment),,Why did you need to say that you humanized the bandits, gave good intelligence to zombies and dogs?,Well, here you can argue, because I did not come across the moments where the bandit / dog / walker did, some kind of nonsense, but everyone perceives it in his own way. BUT I really noticed that they really tried on Ellie, I don’t know why, but attacking her from behind playing for Abby was very problematic, because she moved super fast, and attacking can only be done from behind and this complicated the task of attacking her (personally for me) we can discuss that the developers worked very well on the sound of the shot / objects and other details. But this does not make sense, because anyone who watched / played could safely say that the game looks at the level of 2020, I did not want to say it for everyone, but it's hard to argue here.,,Why make such a finale?,And here you can discuss, someone really didn’t like the final game and I won’t even argue because it’s obvious that the final game was ruined, but! The game could be continued, for example, to make an addition, where did Dean, Tommy go or where did Ellie go? All this could be continued thanks to the ending that we got, but from recent news, it turned out that the developers of the game (let's call it that) will not continue the story of Ellie or Abby doesn’t matter who, but the additions thanks to that ending could be made and I assure you if so many people bought the game, then they would buy the continuation of the story, I assure you of any character (I know that the developers may continue the game or will continue, no need to breed discussion!),,But! That's not all, the game could have been done better if it had been! (my point of view) we were given the choice at the end of the game to kill Abby or to leave her alive and here we could safely end the story, but unfortunately we have what we were given. Where you can only wait for further news from the Naughty Dog team
5546) Those who disliked the game in the first hour giving it a 0 out of 10 are **** retarded, the game was amazing, the ending was very good, those who did not like it, it's because they didn't understand the message behind revenge
5547) Can't believe how many lowlife losers that have not even played the game are hating on this. The game is so damn good in every way.
5548) This is one of the most impressive video games that i’ve ever played. The graphics, animations, voice acting, gameplay and the story are all top notch. They improved on all the mechanics of the first game in every single way. There are some story beats that people may find upsetting, but overall they add to the whole experience. I can not stress enough that you need to complete the story to truly appreciate this game. It’s an emotional journey, but it’s important to the story. I enjoyed it from beginning to end and recommend that anyone that loved the first one, should definitely play this game. It is truly a masterpiece.
5549) SPOILER ALERT DONT READ UNLESS COMPLETED. The Last of Us Part II follows up an a masterpiece that emotionally wears you down and makes you fall in love with its characters Joel and Ellie. If you have experienced life and know what loss is, than The Last of Us Part II will emotionally wears you down in a completely different way. It was designed clearly to.invoke a whole other feeling and it blew me away. It is a it blurs the lines of good evil that we often believe are set in stone, and  results in a feel good fairytale for the ones we didn't want to feel good for, and it is a tragedy for the ones we know and love dearly. In the end, Ellie's biggest fear in life that she mentioned in the first installment, becomes her reality after choosing hate over love. This should serve as a cautionary tale of staying true to yourself and how careful we need to be about picking up the sins of our father figures. And how when we realize the error of our ways, it can be too late.
5550) One of the best games I have every played, a definite masterpiece. I played this game back to back with Last of Us Part I and not able to put down the controller. The main characters have very intricate personalities and at the same time predictable and unpredictable behavior, just like any of us. Everybody in the game is imperfect and evolving or devolving depending on the arc.,,Acting, photography, sound, and music was impeccable creating an incredible immersive experience.,,There is a lot of "treasure hunting" and it can break the climate and pace. I recommend leaving deep scavenging to a second play though. When you are rushing to save lives, stopping to grab artifacts is just wrong. It is amazing that the game tackles even that. I recall taking time to go around to find an artifact for a trophy, the NPC would sarcastically say that it was waiting for you. Don't recall the exact words, but it is striking.,,It is sad the game frustrated so many people for various reasons. Maybe i was immune to that because I absolutely do not go after news, reviews or watch videos about the game prior to playing. The only media I have watched was the official release videos from Naughty Dog and Sony. I knew nothing that could spoil my experience.,,Like most people, I almost deleted the game upon watching the gore death of Joel. That was a sucker punch, the feelings were a mix of hate, frustration, sadness. But i kept playing, I wanted to make sense of what was going on. As the game concluded, the negative emotions were gone and I feel Joel is finally at peace with himself and Ellie.,,Owen was such an underrated protagonist. He was the only person that could talk Abby out of it, but out of vengeance and love for Abby, he decided not to antagonize. I don't think he regretted been part of Joel's murder, but he made sense of the world, decided to value life and inspired Abby to change.,,This is one of the few games that make sense of violence and guns. Murder is just gratuitous and easy. It is the solution for every problem humanity has. And that is at the center of both parts. Joel refusing to let Ellie die for a chance to save humanity, was the first spark to change status quo. It repeats during Abby and Ellie's arc when they finally realize that violence and killing just leaves you alone and mentally disturbed. Abby saving the seraphite kids and Ellie sparing Abby's life is redemption for the human race. The only way forward.,,I wish more people would see the game in the same light was I did. It was the most emotional gaming experience ever. I will never forget it.
5551) great game that history makes us reflect on what is right or wrong.,in the end out of revenge the two lose a lot and ends up not compensating and everything gets worse.,impeccable artificial intelligence, incredible graphics.,great gameplay.
5552) it's a masterpiece. Anyone who can't understand and appreciate this game should just keep playing Fortnite.
5553) Absolutely incredible narrative, character immersion and gameplay including combat is outstanding. This is the benchmark for every game from now on. The industry leader. Every negative thing that was said about the game was a lie by those who are stuck on a console without any good games to play.  consolecowithout any good games to play
5554) I would just talk about the story because the sight speaks for itself. The game is amazing because of the transfer of emotions. That’s exactly why there are plenty of negative comments. You need a certain emotional intelligence to understand. As we accompany Ellie's crash throughout her revenge. From murder to murder. The masterfully cut back memories. From half the game, we also understand and feel why Abby did what she did and we follow along as she loses everything for a revenge. It was also a good move that Lev would have a 'conscience.' As their acquaintance changed Abby. When he finally leaves Ellie alive and comes to live with Dina. there as he cannot let go of this situation from his thought and torments him. Finally, when they both get to the end, they lose everything that is important to them because of revenge. We got a great structure and finally got a game of giving and teaching something. That’s why it doesn’t come in for people with low emotional intelligence. Because they don't understand what he was talking about. They just went and fired. All esters GREAT WORK NAUGHTY DOG.
5555) This game doesn't deserve 4 ratings. must be seven or eight, story is a relative concept
5556) It's the best game ever i've seen. I wait this game many times. And i bought it in the first day
5557) Spoilers ahead.. please don’t read unless you’ve finished.,This was phenomenal storytelling for me. Yes, I hated that Joel was killed. But, this story ends up being about so much more. It’s about found family, tragedy, and revenge—and how far characters are willing to go. It’s about understanding two sides of the same coin. It has dark moments, and some of the most beautiful and touching moments. If you’re on the fence about the game, I highly recommend it if you love storytelling. This game deserves so much more than the flak it’s currently getting. Look to the critics for actual insight, and not to the hate campaign on this site.,If
5558) i understand why some people were angry with the story,but i loved it. the gameplay is good graphics are good the story is not for everyone
5559) in one word masterpiece,A game that will shake you from the first moment to the last
5560) I Just finish this game and now i can say that,I Love this game . I happy to play this game
5561) This game is just amazing.,This game is just amazing.,This game is just amazing.
5562) I'm starting to get the feeling that most people who rate this game below a 8 either didn't play the game or cry because it didn't end like they wanted the story to end.,,I first became a fan of The Last of Us when it was released on Playstation 3, I bought it and played it religiously. The gameplay, sound and above all the story were one of a kind. We met 2 amazing characters that will live and be remembered in the gaming history forever.,I bough the game again (remastered) on Playstation 4, I've played the multiplayer numerous times with friends and had a blast every time. It is safe to say I was exited for The Last of Us 2 and got it on release date.,I've been playing the game ever since I got it, a few hours everyday and today I finally finished it. The graphics, sound and especially level design surpass the part 1 by a country mile. The game is alive, more so than it was in the first instalment. Skeletons with notes feel like they once lived, the houses feel like they barely withstood quest of time and even the enemies feel like real people. The levels are more open-world, allowing the player to choose how much to explore and when to move on. There are dead-ends, screaming enemies, animals, the game feels alive.,The music is fantastic, Santaolalla absolutely smashed it out of the park, in a horror game music might be the most important factor in making the player scared, and boy did that work. The amount of times I was hesitant to continue, or open a door were limitless.,,In my opinion the Story of part 2 might even be better than part 1. I understand that people don't like the curveball that is thrown midway through the story, and I didn't like it at first, but looking back at it, it might be the best thing Naughty Dog could have done. We get to see a different side of the situation a,end Ellie learns from it right at the end.,The end did leave me with questions and I wondered why Ellie even bothered making the entire journey if she ended it like that, but the message Naughty Dog want to express is clear and beautiful.,,All with all, if you liked part 1 you should 100% play this game, even if you end up not liking the story at the end, the gameplay, sound and level-design make up for it. I was not disappointed and I will replay this game most defiantly one day.
5563) Best game i ever played in years.,Druckmann crio Abby a melhor personagem que  game poderia ter.
5564) game play is on another level comparing with tlou1, IA of the enemy is surprisingly real like never game done before and what to say about technical sector.,The plot can divide,personally i've loved the Ellie's redemption trip but i felt like a change in narrative rhythm in the last 4 hours of the game and a final fight a little bit unrealistic a great game anyways
5565) This game is phenomenal - the tide of hate its recieved from far right bigots, people that can't overcome Joel's death or understand the game at anything beyond surface level is overwhelming. This game is a masterpiece, no piece of media has left me so emotionally wrecked, they orchestrated this perfectly. The symbolism and attention to detail invested into this story is amazing. It leaves you exploring concepts and characters for days, having you invested in storylines you thought you never could have been. The gameplay is also 10/10, the improvement in the enemy classes of the infected is just on a whole new level. Fighting human enemies is equally as fun as they introduce this sense of gritty realism into the play style. It's a 10/10 game, ignore negative reviews spewing incoherent **** about SJWs and Joel.
5566) Edit: Adding the only really bad script thing for me: Joel death. He is a survivor and don’t trust anyone and then he go all in into a house full of armed strangers and say his name for who could wanna know... it just doesn’t fit easy. Tried to thing that he relaxed after living some years into a trustful town/society, that Ellie changed him and after the Firefly massacre he tried to change for her, bit it still seems forced. But even with this the game is almost perfect and the best one for ps4. Not by far the “zeros” that so many “gta generation” are putting here, bit they have the right. And I tgink, and gope, that there will (or at least would be before so many haters) a third part for the story, by the way that this one developed and finished, bit who knows.,Great gameplay. Suberb graphics. About the story, at the beginning I found it frustrating, but after finishing the game I found it great.,Think in it taking “Game of Thrones” perspective. No one is so important that could not die (in stupid ways sometimes) and the story goes on for another characters independent and without show it to us.,I personally disliked the need to show Ellie has homossexual into the dlc at the first game (probably to creat polemic, not because she is homo, but cause she is the only immune being, and in a apocalyptic world it means no immune decendents), and it is cause the last midia histories are tending to show all strong and independent womans as homossexual, and this isn’t true. But they showed the relationship of the main in a good way.,No confusing or unrealistic end for me, it was the enconter of two opposites: one going from a vengeance ravok that turned her into a monster and after fuffiling it started to think at the worngness of all that and being tired of the killing (Abby), thanks for the changes and deaths of her friends and being save by enemies morr than one time; other one finally finding a good life and than loosing it in a violent way, turning herself a monster, making her loose sleep, friends, love, home, until in the end she realize that fulfilling it would bring her nothing, abandoning her revange (even apparently it being to late for her to be happy). “They killed hundreds and regreat to kill their mostly hated ones, it has no sense”, but the other killing were for auto defense and to reach their objectives and were part of the “tiredness process”, showed in cutscenes, in game dialogues and changes into character appearance and in game disposition. Abby no killing Ellie is justified for all suffering and the conscience that she brings it for her and her friends and her change after being safe and saving her enemies and seeing the craziness of a war into a apocalyptic world at the Island.,Ellie not killing Abby is justified cause her essence was good, the revenge make her loose friends, home and love, and at the last moment, into a game part that show her visibility tired and depressed, physically hurt, she sees the emptiness of it all.,A controversial game that will not be for everyone, specially the ones that pay bo attention for all story, but for me a almost perfect game and the best one for PS4, a great closure for this console.
5567) Amazing game amazing graphics. Lots of people crying about the story have to grow up , this is a great game.
5568) The Last OF US 2  is no shy of brilliance. I Am Lost for words over joel. But everything else is a huge step forward, Which greatly Shadows the first game. You need to play it if you haven't. We Love you Joel, The world will miss you.
5569) This game is beyond amazing.Yes it was brutally sad and heartbreaking i still didn’t recover from THAT scene but thats what naughty dog and neil wanted to make us feel that nothing and no one is safe once they leave the walls of their safe place . I loved playing as the other character playing as her made me realize that she wasn’t a bad person she was just like ellie trying to survive in an unfair apocalyptic world. I think a lot of people didn’t get what the game was trying to tell us they just wanted blood. I love every ounce of the game the dialogues the combat the graphics,And the story .it was a masterpiece .
5570) Pros:,Good gameplay that is similar to the first game, but is still expanded upon,Interesting environaments and set pieces,AI enemies that feel more "alive" based on the way they interact with each other and the environment,,(Maybe) negatives:,The story. The thing that everyone seems to be complaining about or, more specifically, people that reviewed the game on the day it came out, and couldn't have possibly known the whole story without reading the leaks. If you just read the story without experiencing the game, I can totally understand why you would be upset, but the game does a pretty good job at making you question Ellie's motivations, and showing the similarities between her and the "antagonist" of the game. Not a PERFECT job, but a respectable job, and despite having seen similar stories to this game in other media, it feels fresh and exciting to see a story like this told through a video game where we actually get to perform the acts of the characters.,,Overall, this game is a solid 7/10. The reason I gave it a 10 was to counter-balance all the 0 reviews from people that just read the leaks and didn't even play it.
5571) Amazing follow-up to the first game. All the negative reviews around the game are surprising, as it's definitely one of the best games of 2020. The bittersweet story about revenge and forgiveness that the game tells does not disappoint, even if lacking some of the character dynamics that the first title had. The only disappointing part is the gameplay that has only a few new additions and, honestly, looks a lot better in the trailers. Worth playing nonetheless.
5572) Game is a masterpiece! The story, music, visuals... It makes you feel so many emotions. Don't trust the review bombers, play the game, you will love it!
5573) best game ever.... if you want to know what is missing in your life... try this one... i never play such a great game... omg! Please do a favor for me... dont listen this 1 point bastards... they are too young too understand a story telling game,... just buy it and play...
5574) Hi there. Here are a few of my thoughts about The last of us 2. It's ok to not like a game. I love it, but that's just me. What is not ok, is to collectively review bomb something by calling it trash, when it is one of the best looking games to come out on ps4. This game is a work of art. It is beautiful and engaging. It is deeply polarizing, which is why the fanbase is so divided about it. Again, that's fine. The story is dark, bleak and deeply upsetting. It's a revenge tale. To have a revenge video game, we as the player, need something powerful enough to drive us to want to seek that vengeance. Thus, we come to the death of Joel, one of gaming's most beloved characters. People don't like that. I get it. Hell I don't like it. But it is a damn good way to motivate me to go an a murder rampage halfway across the country to bring his killers to task. Also to show the cycle of vengeance, they have to show us what led Abby to do the dastardly deed, and I am glad that we were put in her shoes to do that. I feel that we are not supposed to sympathize with her, but empathize.  To see the path that made her a monster, and to draw parallels between her, and Joel from the first game. Let us remember after Joel lost his daughter, Joel became a murderous piece of **** too. He would cut thru any number of people to accomplish whatever he was doing at the time. This game is about Ellie going down that same path, but instead of finishing her task and killing her rival, she lets go and finds her humanity. Abby does the same. The game ends without a conclusion.  The protagonist  and antagonist are still alive. This is made this way to make us feel as empty inside, as Ellie does, now that she is alone with everyone she knew and loved either dead or gone. The message is a powerful one, whether or not you enjoy it. It definitely didn't make me feel good. The biggest reason I even did this review is  because I saw the toxic gaming community condemning this game simply because they didn't like the story. That doesn't make it an objectively bad game, just one you might not like. Hands down this is one of the prettiest games I've ever played, and the combat is engaging and visceral.  The constant collecting of junk got old at times, but whatever.  That's not game breaking. I would honestly rate this an 8, but I'm rating it 10 to compensate for the undeserved user scores it's been getting. Also if your complaint about this game is that it includes a couple LGBTQ characters in it, **** you, bigot. You're a piece of **** and you may not know it, but everyone else does.
5575) It is a really great game naughty dog lives up to expectations again with this incredible story the people who gave it bad review probably haven't even finished the game or even played it they just jumped on the hate train from the leaks.,The game is just a masterpiece.
5576) I sincerely do not understand why people stoke the game. And given that it takes at least 20 hours to complete, the estimates put in the first hours of the release suggest that there are a considerable number of people who have unhealthy prejudices, but this is just my guess.,,The game is a masterpiece. Do not listen to anyone, just play for yourself, and you will understand that the story is rather difficult and sad, sometimes unexpected, but worthy of attention. Undoubtedly, I would like to see some points differently, but Neil is therefore (at least for me) an exemplary screenwriter, because he does his work without looking at someone else's opinion, that is, reflects his vision.,If you really want to see an extraordinary plot, feel free to buy.,P.S. I want to write a lot of things, but I understand that spoilers :)
5577) This game is worthwhile. I really enjoyed my playthrough and I think we should not be too harsh if story swayed in a direction we didn't expect. I enjoyed gameplay mechanics.
5578) Best game of this generation without a doubt. the graphics are stunning and the atmosphere is phenomenal.
5579) Absolutely a Masterpiece, graphics are the new standard for AAA games, the story is really deep and controvertial. It's a Game that wakes up passions in all the gaming community, a definetly must play for everyone. You don't see this Quality so often. 10/10
5580) Possibly the most engaging story I’ve ever seen in a video game. Improves on the original game in every single way whilst taking the narrative in a whole new direction. Certainly one of the best games of the decade, and one of my new favourites!
5581) The best game !!! I don't know why the people are crying, pinches nenas  no sabes lonque es una obra de arte no es lonque esperaban pues. Parecen fans de Star wars tirando hate a la nueva trilogia
5582) The Last of Us 2 is a phenomenal game. The graphics are some of the best in this generation.  The fight scenes are tense, scary and big.  The controls and overall gameplay are excellent just like the last game.  I love how fluid the animations are during a fight scene.  In one instance, I ran and grabbed a brick, threw it at someone, dodged a bullet and charged another person with a hammer.  It’s hard to explain, but those events unfolded exactly how they should without any glitches or awkward animations or stutters. It felt empowering.  Another time, I was sneaking up on someone and I didn’t realize there was dog near by and he sniffed me out and the enemies quickly tried to surround me.  I was forced to abandon my plan and run through several buildings to lose the enemies. I also like how different Ellie and Abby feel during fights.,,I honestly don’t understand the hate the game continues to get.  Yes, it’s extremely violent and a lot of that violence is really graphic, but the game is a story about revenge and hate. What did you expect?  The very first trailer showed Ellie in a house filled with dead bodies and she says “I’m gonna find, and I’m gonna kill every last one of them”  Did you think she was going to travel to Seattle and toilet paper the place and maybe give some people wedgies?  Ellie already has survivor's guilt and is now filled with hate for the people who killed Joel.  Of course it’s gonna be violent…extremely violent. She has nothing to lose.,,That brings me to another huge gripe…Joel is dead. Joel had to be killed for this story to exist.  Unfortunately, it’s as simple as that.  I love Joel, but he had to die to set Ellie off in this vengeful rage.,,The last and probably most relevant gripe is that you have to play as Abby for the second part of the game and...that playing as Abby seemed like a long side quest.  I get it.  When they first put me in Abby’s shoes I was pissed. I hated that character.  I hated her so much that I didn’t even look for resources in the beginning.  I just wanted her to die...but that’s when I started to realize something.  As I continued to play her chapters I realized that Abby is not all that bad.  Joel killed her Dad and she was simply out for revenge.  She even spared Ellie and Tommy whereas Ellie was out to kill everybody, not just Abby.  Abby actually grows as a character.  She genuinely cares about what may happened to Lev and his sister. She turns against the WLF and helps them. This is not a side quest, this is where you realize that she is a good person and unfortunately revenge got the better of her. Ultimately you realize that Abby is a better person than Ellie.  Of course, you still love Ellie more (because she rocks), but by the end of the game I was conflicted about killing Abby.,,I really liked the risk Naughty Dog took with the story.  By the end of the game I thought it was really satisfying playing as Abby and seeing the other side of the story.  The flashbacks were also a nice change of pace compared to the main plot.  I was also a fan of all the new characters...Dina, Jessie, Mel, Owen, Nora and Manny.,,I only have 1 real gripe…in certain situations when I really need to keep moving, I have to stop to look around for resources. In those scenes resources should just be readily available to keep the action flowing. Maybe just have enemies drop more ammo or something.,,Overall, the game was fantastic and I really enjoyed playing it.
5583) A true Masterpiece, i literally just finished the game which i got delivered on 22nd of June, believe me this is a must play game, great gameplay mechanics, great visuals and great story. So glad that the folks at naughty dog didn't compromise great storytelling for fan service. I am very excited for this series to be adapted by HBO
5584) Gameplay : 10,Graphic : 10,Music : 10,Story : 8,10/10..................................
5585) I started playing game not knowing what to expect. I did all I can to avoid the spoilers beforehand (successfully). I really liked the game, the story was hard hitting and makes you question your morals and what's right.. Its brutal and gruesome but has its moments of lightness and calmness. When I started the second half of the game I didn't think I would like it but by the end I understood how it worked and it was incredible! Honestly it's a great game, great physics, great visuals, awesome soundtrack nice upgrades over pt1 and an epic story.
5586) No spoilers, except maybe some for themes and content, like drug use and sex scenes. No plot or story spoilers, I promise.,,First things first, no, it doesn't have a PC or LGBTQ+ agenda. Ellie is gay and a secondary character is trans, that's it. There are no explicit queer sex scenes (though you do see a 30 second heterosexual sex scene - consensual with a bit of boob, definitely nothing that would push the limits of the 18 rating). The most explicitly gay stuff you see is kissing and general cuteness between girlfriends, if you think that's an agenda then I don't know what to tell you, you live in a bubble and queer folks exist, get over it.,,It's pretty grim and gruesome, the deaths are a lot more hard hitting. If you shoot someone in the leg and they bleed out, they'll scream and writhe for several seconds, there's more fear in their faces when you kill them, they sometimes beg for their lives, the people watching their friends die are more authentically messed up by it, stuff like that. Not something that will bother everyone, but I'd say that's the nastiest bit of the game in terms of overall gameplay. Once again if you're more offended by a bit of boob and a consensual sex scene, IDK what to tell you. There's also a bit of weed use and a mention of a grumpy old alcoholic, if those are deal breakers for you.,,Graphics are amazing, sound design is great, and the gameplay itself is very similar to the first game, but just a little bit better. IMO it's perfect, I hate when they change too much in the sequels when the original was so good. If it's not broke don't fix it, you know? And The Last of Us Part II honours that, it basically expanded on the original combat without changing much at all. Oh, except one thing - Clickers ACTUALLY use echolocation now (they just used hearing in the first game) and they don't bloody tell you, I must have died a dozen times before I realised they can "see" you if you stand in front of them while they're making noises.,,As for the rest... basically it's a game about how much you can mess yourself up in the pursuit of revenge. It's a game that hurts you then tells you to get over it, because staying angry will only ever leave you unsatisfied and unhappy. It's true to life, moreso than most of us would like, and at times it's frustrating, tedious, or even in-your-face insulting. The game doesn't care if you like it or not, it doesn't care if it makes you feel bad, and it doesn't care about making you feel better. Pretty much every criticism I've seen against the game so far (that this plot point should have been different, that the pacing is weird, that you don't care about that character, that you're not satisfied with the ending, etc) can be answered with "yes, I know, that's literally the point." Once you get your head around that, it's a good game that achieves exactly what I believe it set out to achieve.,,If that sounds interesting to you then I say go for it, maybe watch a playthrough first (I recommend JackSepticEye or GabSmoulders purely because they seems to be the only YouTubers thus far who actually get it) or wait for it to come on sale, or keep your eyes open on marketplaces online or CEX and similar trade-in stores, I'm sure there will be a lot of copies there soon enough. Do actually play the game though if you want to criticise it, and be wary of those with generic copy/paste reasons for disliking it, such as an unsatisfying ending or a dislike for the "PC agenda" it doesn't have.
5587) Absolutely brilliant from start to finish!! Graphics and gameplay are amazing and the story is tense and keeps you on your toes. I loved the first game! It was always going to be tricky topping that and i think it did well.
5588) Just finished the game today. While it's not as ground breaking as some of the critics say it is, it surely is a pretty solid game. I have some negatives: poor pacing through the first half, the obvious disconnect between killing loads of people in gameplay but then your character finding killing people hard in cutscenes etc. but overall very fun, gameplay has so much depth and varies from encounter to encounter. It is unbelievable the amount you can do in terms of how you tackle enemies. The story is also really interesting and engaging, while it seems like a generic revenge plot, it takes a few risks that pay off huge. Don't listen to the extremely negative reviews, most of these people haven't actualy played the game, they just hate it because it has lesbians and muscley women and are pretending it's for other reasons.
5589) Following the footsteps to one of the best games if not the best game I played on the ps3, Naughty Dog had massive shoes to fill. The first entry had me dealing with all emotions and I was all over the place at the end of the journey. When learned there was a sequal in the works back in 2016 I was both excited and worried that they would make a game not worthy the masterpiece they released back in 2013. The last of us part 2 brought forth the same excited, nerve-wrecking, anxiety, happy, sobbing feelings I had with the first one. Naughty Dog polished an already polished jewel and made yet another masterpiece with part 2. I was hooked from the start and throughout my 35+ hour playtime and my tears were running down my cheek when the credits rolled. There's a part of me that feel they could've given more screen time with Joel and Ellie to shine together before killing off Joel and also playing as Abby in the theater didn't resonate with me that much. But I get why they did it and what they're trying to tell us and I applaud Naughty Dog for having the confidence to make such a bold and beautiful sequal to a game that didn't need one. There's nothing out there that can compete with Naughty Dog both visually and in storytelling. Yes, I can see why this is a divisive game but it's a game still worth having played.
5590) I love it it’s incredibly fascinating and probably game of the year .......
5591) 'The Last of Us Part ll' does something I've never before experienced in a game. It humanizes its central conflict with gut-wrenching efficacy, illuminating the truth that we are all in this together, and that when empathy and forgiveness are lost, we are lost as well. It does have its share of narrative flaws, but none so great that they hinder the overall experience from being deeply affecting.,I absolutely loved the original game, having played through it too many times to count, including numerous times on Grounded Mode. It seems to me that a lot of the backlash for this current title may be rooted in the expectations players have had, especially those regarding the direction they've thought the story might or should take. But if one lets go of those expectations, there's a lot here to appreciate.
5592) This game is a masterpiece,it really worth playing. you may not like some characters end and i think this is problem of the game, but it is again  awesome. I really want the part 3
5593) My first game was Pitfall. Or Megamania. Attari console. Circa 1982 or 83. Since then I've played most of the best games, the "game changers" and the ones that created a new quality benchmark. The Last of Us II is the only one that made me cry. Congratulations to its developers. It's a delicate piece of art.
5594) Part 2 is everything the first game was and more, along with an added dose of philosophical introspection
5595) This game is really good, it have a 10/10 gameplay and is beautiful to see, plus it has a great story 8,5/10, I played the first teh last of us and I was such a good game, and I love how they created not a Giant cliche, but created a new story and to compensate the fact that the game wasn't like the first one they added the flashback, this game is soo good, but you have to play with an open mind.
5596) ♫"If I ever were to lose you, I'd surely lose myself..."♫,,Upon completing this game, I am left heartbroken. I watched a character that I've loved for years lose herself because she lost someone she cared about, and who cared about her. Its a difficult experience to see Ellie make decisions that leave her lost and alone, and it is by no means 'fun' to see her throw away everything only to be torn further from Joel, and let his killer live.,,But to call the story 'bad' because you think Ellie should have fulfilled her revenge is completely missing the point ND was trying to make. I think one's enjoyment of this story depends on whether the game is able to make you empathize with Abby, and even root for her. For me, ND accomplished this. In the beginning, I hated Abby and wanted to see her meet the consequences of her choice to seek out and murder Joel. But by the end, during the fight on the beach, I wanted her to live. Abby is cold and hardened, scarred by the loss of the person she cared about more than anything, and struggling to find her purpose in the world. Through our time playing as her, we see her begin to regain some of that humanity, through her conviction to protect a young child and bring them to safety. If this sounds familiar, its because her arc is very similar to Joel's in the first game. By the end of The Last of Us, Joel had done some monstrous things and killed many innocent people, but we still loved him. Abby is no worse than Joel, and though she never fully redeems herself in my eyes for what she did, I still understand her motivations and hope that she and Lev find the safe haven they are looking for.,,This game shows that the cycle of violence is dangerous to become swept up in. Started by Joel, passed to Abby, then to Ellie, this cycle of killing caused both Ellie and Abby to lose themselves, and many people they cared about. This game caused me to care equally for the two of them, and made me deeply anxious during their two fights. I understood what was driving Ellie to kill Abby, but I didn't want her to do it. In the end, Ellie thinks of her last interaction with Joel, where she decides to try to forgive him for what he did to the Fireflies to save her, and decides to break the cycle of violence and allow Abby to escape. I think she made the right choice in the end. Killing Abby would not have given Ellie any closure, as she had already lost everything in her pursuit to that end. She could have had a peaceful life with Dina, but she threw it away and paid the price.,,Even though this game had a deeply depressing ending, I am in no way disappointed with it. They had a story to tell, and however bleak it was, I think they told it well. I was moved in a way few games have been able to move me, and I mourn the death of Joel, and I feel sorry for what Ellie has become. The fact that ND makes me feel that way is not the sign of a bad game, but the hallmark of a truly special title, one that, just as the Last of Us 1 did, makes you care about its characters above all else.
5597) I know this game is getting some hate, but from someone who played the first game multiple times and was eagerly anticipating this game since it’s announcement in 2016, I can tell you that every expectation I had was exceeded. I’m not going to spoil anything, just go and play the game. Don’t believe the hate. This game lives up to the phenomenal storytelling that was its predecessor. Easily game of the year.
5598) The game is not perfect. 8 is my personal score, but it is deffenetly not a 0/10.,The game looks insanely good, the combat and exloration addictive and realistic. There are some narrative dessicions that have no point at all and the music is not as dominant as i the first game. Other than that a solid ps exclusive.
5599) Thought the game was brilliant. Story was much bigger than just Joel and Ellie. You got to see and understand new perspectives, and had to learn how to let go of characters you once loved to understand the true concept of the game and I think that was hard for a lot of people to do. Game was raw and brutal, messy, no time to mourn peoples deaths, and I think the creators purposefully made you detach from certain characters to allow yourself to accept new characters. 10/10. Really excited for whatever might happen next.
5600) The game is a masterpiece. Carefully directed, it engages you in a story that develops in an Oscar-movie style. The mechanics are great, weapons and fights feel amazingly real and brutal. Setting of post-apocalyptical Seattle is beautifully made. Really it is a pleasure to play the game, it holds you tight until you see the final titles. Strongly like!
5601) Man, man, man naughty dog did it again.  They got me hooked from start to finish.  Truelly the best game I have ever played.  I can understand that some people won't like it because it actually has a dark emotional story, but they back it up with intense gameplay.  I hope that they will release MP soon.,I really don't get the hate about this game but you see this alot when it's a PS4 exclusive.  Haters must hate I guess.  When you see rating below 7 you can be sure they never even played the game.
5602) see the whole picture of what happens by the perspective of Abbey and Ellie that may confuse you .... You hate Abbey cause she killed our beloved Joel but there were reasons and Ellie who killed a pregnant woman and innocent people also has reasons,The last of us part 2 is a experience inside the apocalyptic world not only in Ellie journey
5603) From the beginning to the end, I had a difficult time putting down the controller. I was drawn into the chaotic world of Ellie who must fight her inner demons to achieve her goal at any cost. How this game was able to make me feel a rollercoaster of emotions in my 25 hrs of gameplay makes me want to take a breather before diving in again. The story may not be for everyone, but it is impactful as the first game.
5604) It's one of the best game if not the best game. The gameplay its great. This is best graphical game till now. The story is actually good . People are angry about story , i understand but still most part of it is pretty good
5605) I don’t get why people hate this game, but all I can say is that I have enjoyed it.
5606) A game to close this generation, best-looking graphics for a console, acting 10/10 plot has some issues, but I absolutely love this game, even tho I would say this game BEAT me not the otherwise, and when I say it I'm saying in a good way, it is a roller-coaster of emotions that drives you towards the end. UNIQUE VERY UNIQUE EXPERIENCE.,THANKS, NAUGHTY DOG!
5607) Incredible, yet painful story. Others who hate the game can’t fathom their favourite characters dying. That doesn’t equate to bad storytelling. I loved it! But also nearly cried on several occasions.
5608) Oh boy, what a way to say goodbye to the PS4 generation. Long story short, TLOU2 is a nearly perfect game and one of the best narrative-driven games I've ever played (and I've played a lot). The gaming community needs more stories like this. Brave, moving and profound. TLOU2 doesn't pander to their audience. This game is not made to please its audience at the expense of the message it's trying to convey, quite the opposite, which really sets it apart from a vast amount of games out there.,,Leaving the plot and message aside, this game is more than a worthy sequel to the original TLOU. Technically, it's better in every aspect you could imagine: stunning graphics, probably the best we'll ever get to see on current hardware, beautiful scenery and fantastic level design which opens up so many different possibilities for you to solve the situations you encounter. It's also longer than the original, and I mean that in the best possible way. TLOU2 is remarkably generous. It's packed full of diverse content and unique scenarios which are overflowing with detail.,,If I had to critique one thing I'd say Naughty Dog were a bit lazy with the character progression mechanism. In TLOU2, pills to unlock new character skills and nuts and bolts to upgrade our weapons make a reappearance, which is a bit out of place in such a grounded game where absolutely every single other mechanic and items we use has a purpose and fits perfectly into the world we're playing in and the story the came is unravelling before us.,,I will say no more as I could write pages upon pages about the virtues of this game. If you're looking for a bold, adult, thought-provoking story complemented with solid gameplay and you happen to own a PS4, I cannot recommend this game enough. And if you don't own a PS4, this game is definitely worth the purchase!
5609) The Last of Us Part II is an incredibly harrowing but beautiful and well-crafted masterpiece.,At first glance, you are absolutely not in doubt that this is another striking piece from Naughty Dog.,,They have truly mastered their craft and once again delivered an incredibly beautiful game.,The graphics are some of the most impressive I have ever seen, and I still can't believe that this is able to run on a regular PS4. Playing on the Pro with a 4K HDR TV just makes it more incredible, so if you're fortunate enough to own a Pro and a 4K TV, this is really a feast for your eyes.,The gameplay mechanics are a huge upgrade from the first games with several new cool features and animations that makes your jaw drop to the floor. It's fun and engaging and just like the first game, it feels grounded and realistic, particularly due to the realistic violence and gore. Bashing an enemy with a pipe or any other melee weapon feels almost uncomfortable. You feel every blow and the aftermath is gruesome. Guns are loud and heavy and each shot feels deadly.,The AI is also a huge improvement from the somewhat buggy and "dumb" AI from the first game. They are much more intelligent and unpredictable.,I shot a WLF member two times and she dropped to the ground, screaming in agony from the gunshot wound I had inflicted. It felt so real and it felt terrible as another WLF member yelled "Ashley!" as he ran towards her. I didn't just kill a random enemy NPC. I killed his friend, Ashley.,Another WLF was walking with his dog. I shot him with a silenced pistol and he immediately fell to the ground. Dead. His dog noticed immediately and started going in circles around him, whimpering and not wanting to leave his side. I felt terrible, but in another scenario, that dog would've tried to chew me to pieces had I been spotted. The first game was brutal, but in Part II, you really feel the weight of the violence and the consequences of your actions.,,Where Naughty Dog truly excels with this game is with the incredibly bold and intense story and narrative. The first game was a masterpiece and deserved all the praise it got. I still consider it my favorite game of all time, and with Part II it just adds so much more to the first game. Sadly, many people have very mixed opinions about the sequel, and the user reviews here tells you the same story. It's not a game for everyone but I don't understand the ridiculous amount of hate that this game has gotten.,,The story of Part II continues where we left off in Part I and tells an incredibly harrowing and engaging story that leaves you feeling uncomfortable and stressed during the majority of the game. It's NOT a fun game and I never expected it to be either.,,There is so much more depth to the characters and they feel just as real as in the first game. The new characters are interesting and well-written and there are so many twists that leaves you completely speechless.,,This story is incredibly divisive and ambiguous and while there are certain things I definitely wasn't onboard with regarding this story, I can definitely appreciate the storytelling and why things had to happen the way they did. You need to have an open mind in order to fully grasp and appreciate this story. It's not an easy story and many people aren't onboard with the things that happens, but it's truly done in a way that respects the characters and their journey and adds so much more depth to the first game.,,I have a massive amount of respect for Naughty Dog to create such an ambitious game and they really nailed it with Part II with just about everything. No matter what other people say about this game, you really HAVE to experience it on your own. Make up your own mind and don't trust the user reviews here. To quote Neil Druckmann: This is a video game. You have to play it.
5610) This is honestly the best narrative / story telling experience I've ever had in a video game, I would go as far to say any media actually.,,This is the exact reason why I believe video games can be a true evolution of art. What was done here is just impossible in any other media and will certainly be talked about and praised for years and years on.,,The non-binary narrative and change in perspective that forces the player to deal with the full listening of a second perspective. Imagine you being quiet and just hearing out someone speaking about something you 100% disagree for 10+ hours, do you see yourself dealing with that? Well you should, because that's how you can improve as a person.,,This game is a life lesson everyone should have and a lot of people learn the exact opposite of this (specially because of the internet). People are being trained at hating each other because of the most stupid things (liking/disliking a media for example) and people don't have the mindset to stop and listen to that second opinion. You might not like it, but you must listen and give time to understand.,,Real life is exactly like this, non-binary, unpredictable and full of mistakes and dumb moments (I would say that 100% of humans in the world have put themselves in a bad situation without prior realization). This game is the definition of "You're not prepared".,,I know I won't change nobody's opposite opinion, and if you read up until this point, thank you and if you haven't played this game, please do, I feel this is an important tale. Be sure to play both games. If I would make one complaint about this story is that you too tied to the first one and you can only fully understand this game profound message if you played the first one.
5611) After beating it, I do not understand the criticism behind all the negative reviews. Such a beautiful game, and it does not deserve the hate its been given.
5612) Gameplay 9.5/10,Visuals 10/10,Audio 10/10,Story 8/10,Polish/Production Values 10/10,A worthy sequel to one of the best of all time, and one of the best games this gen.
5613) Attention spoilers about the history and gameplay on this review, this is a great game that deserves to be played before judged, if you do not understand why I gave it a 10 after having played it almost 28 hours and you think it is okay to give it a 0, or anything below 8 without even having played it, then you are the one with the problem and you should not judge before knowing.,,I think the game was superior to the first one in all aspects, starting with the playable aspects such as combat on wich the animations are much more fluid and realistic, stealth as always plays an important role, but now the enemies seem to have more communication between them , the scars whistle in code, the wolfs shout the names of their companions and they have dogs that sniff you and there is more variety of infected. The only thing I can criticize the gameplay is that the AI is sometimes not up to it (rare), inventory management is much better too, the transition between changing one weapon ti another or hitting an enemy is seamless and the we can always see the weapons equipped in the back or backpack of our character, crafting and collecting resources is entertaining as always, but here we have weapons mods that look and feel great.,,The ambientation, environments and its locations are another very strong point of this game compared to the previous one, the spore areas are dark, foggy, with very realistic ambient light and full of enemies, the ambient sounds and the noises the infected make you nervous. The apocalyptic version of the city of Seattle is extremely detailed, it has scenes full of overgrown vegetation, ruins, even a river with rapids and as it constantly rains everything is deteriorated, the jets of water that fall from the buildings and the puddles they create are very realistic, also the game surprised me with so many   well detailed interiors as shops, gyms, restaurants, apartments etc.,,The history is the controversial part of the game, I have never been a fan of temporary jumps in movies or video games, and although I do not love them here, I must say that if they are very effective in showing the story first from Ellie's perspective - Spoiler Ahead - when Abey kills Joel, I was really shocked and she and her friends seemed the worst thugs to me, I couldn't wait for Ellie to take her revenge. I must emphasize that I did not read the spoilers of the game, I entered playing it blindly so I thought Dina was the one who died and that Ellie wanted her to avenge her, but when I  saw that it was Joel the one who dies, Ellie's actions seemed justified to me, that until we reached the part of the game where you control Abby, there you get to know her better, this part where you control her was quite long too, almost as much as Ellie's and during all her journeys you get to know the character better and her friends much much better, turns out I liked some of her friends even more than Ellie´s friends like Owen, Manny and Nora are my favorites, when I saw that Joel killed his Father, I was still on Ellie's side in taking her revenge, but when Abby started helping the Scar brothers and tried to seek some kind of redemption to calm her conscience for what she did to Joel, I knew she was the same as Ellie and at that moment I didn't want she or Ellie to died, when the end was near I thought that maybe I would not like it but I did liked it,I am not going to discuss the end but I can say to other reviewers that said that Ellie was not faithful to her character because of her last action, you are wrong, she indeed killed alot os people to get to her revenge but at the end I think she finally realized that killing her wil not make her happy and that at the end Abby was a person like her that suffer alot because of this revenge the two had, she was ready to let go and she did.,,So, this game is the best until now of 2020, the only negatives I found was that Dina I never really liked me, I don't know why, also I am sad that Joel died, he was a terrific character but I think it was something that gave the story a lot of strength and that resulted in the rebirth of both main characters. We have an Ellie who can forgive when it is right and a new possible protagonist for some future game. The graphics although they are great I think they made my PS4 cry the and sometimes the textures did not always load or looked the best so I can not wait for the PS5, but all this seems superfluous and did not affect my enjoyment with the game at all.
5614) Best game of this generation, and one of the best stories in video games at all.,My rating 12/10
5615) Graphics are outstanding, gameplay is ok. The story is a major let down. Also too much slow time in between events. As well as way too short for a full price game.
5616) Game was phenomenal. It showed me to empathize with certain characters after their story.
5617) Game of the year 2020,Game of the year 2020,Game of the year 2020,Game of the year 2020,Game of the year 2020
5618) Best game I’ve played in years. Graphics are amazing and story is even better
5619) Masterpiece game I really enjoy it one of the best experience I ever had in this gen ..until next time ND
5620) S*ck haters! This is one of the best games of PS4 ever. Most of you did not play the first part and this one too. So shut the f*ck up!
5621) There was a point during this game where I felt betrayed. I stopped and had to rant before I restarted and I cannot tell you how glad I am that I did. This is the best game I have ever played. It will stay with me for some time and I cannot recommend it highly enough.
5622) Game is so good! Good story, characters, graphics, all. Thanks to all Naughty dog team, really good job guys!
5623) It is actually a fantastic game. People just hating on it for no reason. Play the game before you rate it.
5624) Every second in that game is precious. The PS4 can't get any better than that.
5625) Didn’t watch any spoilers, jump right into the game and it is a masterpiece. Its story is quite controversial, many people quit after seeing Joel’s death, but it actually make sense. I love Joel, he is a charming person, but you can not deny the fact that he destroyed the chance to cure this messy world (They really should give Joel a better place to Rest In Peace like Arthur Morgan) The story reminds me of The Walking Dead and Red Dead Redemption II. Revenge and redemption, finding closure and peace in character’s mind in the brutal world. The story telling isn’t a failure, it gave me a mixed feeling, it made me feel anger while seeking revenge, it made me feel guilty killing these characters after knowing their story, It made me feel sad, calm and peaceful at the end. The game didn’t fail us, we failed this game, it deserves a better reputation.
5626) This game is a solid 10/10.... I’ve given it a 10/10 to help off set the terrible reviews it has received by the pathetic “community” who only love to tear down brilliant pieces of work for no justified reason. If a character dies or you ply as someone other than Ellie/Joel, that isn’t a bad thing, it’s refreshing to get to see another perspective. Ignore the bad reviews and play the game, it’s great!
5627) One word "Masterpiece". Yes some story arcs were difficult to take in at first but as we progress further in the story it all make sense. TBH i never treated TLOU as a "game" but have always treated it as an experience & with sequel i was ready for another experience and it certainly lived up to my expectations.
5628) I have to admit I didn’t enjoy the game quite as much as the first one, but not from any lack of quality gameplay or poor storytelling. The users giving this game a super low rating are just immature and frustrated that naughty dog didn’t do what Star Wars the force awakens did and play fan service, giving people what they thought they wanted- or they’re homophobic and can’t keep an open mind about anything. The story here is unmatched by any other video game out there and probably 95% of movies out there, but it’s just so heartbreaking watching these events happen to characters that you have grown to love. But that’s life and sometimes stories are sad- that doesn’t make them bad stories- they make you feel things. Naughty dog was in a unique situation coming into this game where we care so much about them and that could be a gift or a curse. This game would not have worked if it wasn’t for the first game where they had a chance to build that backstory. I laughed and I cried. By the time it was done I just felt shaken, but I’m pretty sure that’s what they were going for. I was left wishing things ended differently but again not because it was a bad ending, but because I just wanted so much more for Joel and Ellie...however this was an amazing game with ALL the feels...
5629) Absolutely amazing. The story, graphics, gameplay and musical score were fantastic. By the far the best ps4 exclusive ever. I loved how the story was told.
5630) This was easily one of the best game that I have ever played. This is storytelling at it's finest.
5631) Really incredible game. It’s plays nicely and gets you invested. Great graphics, music, story etc. Recommend if you enjoyed the first :)
5632) Amazing game, story and mechanics, the best revenge story really makes you think, loved it will play again.
5633) Haters going to hate. You have to dive into story, properly, with headphones. I loved it, I hated it and then I loved it again. Never experienced that in a game. New game plus is waiting for me.
5634) Very good game. The best end to the ps4. I think is not betther than the first game, but is a good one.
5635) Anyone rating this game below 8/10 is mad that the story did not follow their conventional idea of what they think it should be. As a lifetime gamer, I was blown away with this new release. NAUGHTY DOG HAS SET THE BAR SO HIGH for other game developers that it's almost embarrassing. This game is loooong and beautiful. To each their own, but the amount of negativity on this one is ridiculous. Luckily, the proof is in the gameplay and this is an instant classic that will go down as an all-time must play.
5636) I love the game.  It may not be the most innovative.  But it doesn't have to be, because when it comes to emotions it beats every other game hands down.
5637) This game is brilliant, gameplay and graphics are second to none. ND has once again set the bar very high. The story is also brilliant, I really enjoyed it and it fits nicely with the themes from the first game. One of my favourite games and I will play it again for sure in the future.
5638) You have to laugh at the cretins calling this worst game ever. Ever played Duke Nukem Forever? Or Altered Beast? Or Fallout 76? Idiots. Love this game, the graphics are phenomenal and the gameplay is tight. The story takes you on an emotional rollercoaster. Ignore the ridiculous bigots and cry babies voting down a game they haven't even played. A really amazing achievement. Thank god there are still game studios that take chances and don't just pander to toxic fanboy losers.
5639) It was full of heart-rending and painful experiences, but I'm genuinely glad that they created a story with such challenging content in a big budget game. The process of the player understanding the minds of the characters, and the characters understanding the minds of the other characters, was so beautifully rendered that it was like a work of pure literature.,However, it leaves the player with a sense of emptiness in their mind, so it's not for those who are looking for entertainment.
5640) I loved the hell out of this game and yeah i know people that read this review are probably gonna disagree but i liked the story, the death of Joel what surprisingly early in the game but it sets the entire revenge plot, the only thing i didn't like is that ND false advertised the story by putting Joel in scenes or make Ellie older in scenes then the published version does but putting that aside i loved it that much that i took some time to platinum it and managed to do so, Abbeys part was sometimes boring but i does make you feel for the character that did murder the series most loved character but as you'll  find out it was with a reason behind it. I will end this review by saying that i can understand peoples hatred towards the game i can understand some aspects about this game could be misleading for those who really loved the first game. But i loved it.
5641) Incredible. A beautifully detailed story of how hate and the need for revenge can destroy your life and those around you. Bleak and terrifying, with glimpses of hope throughout.,A stunning piece of art that doesn't shy away from controversy.
5642) It took me one week finished this game and I think is a story hard and long, I did feel bad most part of the time.
5643) honestly it was hard to keep emotions throughout the game. but I’ve never been so invested and so on my seat with a game. Naughty dog really made a game that lowkey left me with game of thrones trauma lol. But I enjoyed it.
5644) Great game, with great graphics and gameplay. This game will cause you a lot of emotions and experiences
5645) Genius game, i really like it. It was the best journeyin my life!!!!!!??!!!
5646) Great game! People aren't ready for this. Graphics and gameplay is amazing. Dark game
5647) If you haven’t played the game and worry about spoilers, don’t read the review bellow.,,Oh my god. I can't stand all the garbage people are saying about the game. Everyone is pissed off because character development was not the way they wanted to be, or characters actions was not what they judge best, or because it looks too much political now, or because two girls are getting laid, or… come on people! Grow the ***** up! Stop complaining and just send you god damn curriculum to Naughty Dog and do something better than this. I’m kidding. Naughty Dog wouldn’t employee people like this.,,In my humble opinion, this is a masterpiece and the best 2020 game so far.,,Homossexual relationship, transgender and other stuff are topic in the game, but in a secondary way. And by the way, I don't see this as a problem. I could care less about what Ellie are into. If she is into girls, well good for her. If Abby is stronger the Rambo, well good for her too. I can't believe that this became something to judge in a game.,,The game give to us, again, a harsh reality. And that won't be necessarily a reality we wanted to. Well DEAL WITH IT! Sometimes people we care just die. Out of nothing! And here comes the shocking spoiler: This happens in real life too! If you can’t stand Joel’s death, imagine what Ellie felt. If you are too weak and can’t stand the feeling, stop playing and go find something more colorful to cheer you up. You probably won’t find any consolation in this game. Well I did. But it looks like people don’t think the way I do. It would be too easy for the world.,,I think Ellie is so confused about her feelings that some people say the whole revenge thing is not so convincing. That she turns into a crazy maniac killing people on her way and didn’t even finish what she started. Well that was the way she dealt with loss. In the end, she probably didn't even want that revenge. Maybe she was just so messed up, that killing people was the excuse for her to at least feel something different from regret. And not killing Abby in the end?! For me that was the masterpiece decision. She saw Abby as Joel and Lev as herself when she was young. For me that was the masterpiece. Forgiveness is a way better message for me than revenge. That made me admire her more than I already did.,,Best character ever. Best development ever. And yes, for me is much better than the first one.
5648) This game is being too unfairly critized. Maybe you didn't like to play as Abby or having to deal whit Joel's death, I can understand that. But as someone who is triying to review a game, as a user you have to understand that this story is not poorly written, the story may not be as good or even original as the first one, but it isn't bad at all, everything make sense, and every character have a really good personality. It is not fair to give it a 0, that just doesn´t have sense.
5649) simply awesome,Graphic,gameplay,environments,sounds all very good thanks to everyone who contributed to me, I think the story has told the average story very well but the abby part has been too long i think i wish it had not been so long
5650) This games is a completely masterpiece. The details. Everything. I just love it so much. So many emotions. IT’S JUST SO **** BEAUTIFUL. I honestly don’t understand the hate it got. But in my opinion the story is amazing, amazing characters, amazing landscapes. Just I N C R E D I B L E. I like how we got to understand Abby’s story too. We get to understand each side of these too characters. Ellie and Abby. CONGRATS. IT’S **** PERFECT!
5651) despite what happened to Joel in the start of the game and it was not a great choice by naughty dog to kill Joel at very start of the game but the story is a MasterPeace.,maybe this is the saddest game of all time, that push you to the darkest personality you have ever seen.,the game will show you what revenge really is and what is mean when you get revenge like Abby or not and let it go like Ellie.,but other than the story, the game play, graphic and... all of that is absolutely magical.,and at the end i just want to say this is maybe one the best game you can ever play.
5652) This game left me feeling broken and raw. I cried my eyes out and coudn't fall asleep after finishing it. I'm still thinking about *that* scene and it's still playing in my mind on repeat. It really, really hurts. And that's why I'm giving it a ten. Invoking such strong emotions in a player deserves praise. Taking a direction that'll surely be criticized to show two sides of a conflict and the brutality and futility of the vicious cycle of revenge takes guts. This game doesn't make you feel good, doesn't make you feel like a hero, but the thing is - it doesn't have to. And that's the ugly beauty of it.
5653) I think that this game is great and I loved it despiste its sad ending which made me sad as well xD
5654) I loved everything about this game don’t understand all the hate. Felt like the gameplay story and graphics were the best game I have ever played.
5655) One of the best games ever. technics, gameplay and story are great! Also the characters and the KI.
5656) The game is a masterpiece! I loved how the story took me from absolutely wanting to kill Abby as painfully as I could to actually loving the character and understanding why she did what she had too at the start.The ending has left me wanting more from this world and definitely more from this studio. Amazing job to all who worked on or influenced this project keep pushing the boundaries well done!
5657) amazing story. Great characters. Fantastic game play. Better than life graphics. Naughtydog have yet again out beat its previous game and made a outstanding ps4 title. One that will be remembered for its difficult and hard defining story moments. If you loved the first game then they gave you more with real plot changing moments. The infected are as scary and as intense as ever
5658) I just made an account for this. This game is incredible at least as much as the part 1 but for me it's even better. I can't understand how dumb People are to review bomb so much because of the choices of the game. If you really loved tlou there's no way you won't love this one. I was doubting on buying it since all the reviews were that bad but I'm glad I'vre made the right choice. Now to be 100% honest (gameplay spoilers),.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,The gameplay isn't that revolutional and objectively is kinda ok but for the 10 years of gap there could have been a bit more. But i'm just seeking for the little defaults here. It's still better than the first but nit innovant. The game is really rich in it's narration and do it perfectly for me.,I'd give this game a 9/10 because of the gameplay but seeing all theses nonsens bad ranking at the hour of the release makes me give them a bonus so it's a 10
5659) If you're looking for a cliché or fan-service or you're just clinging to the nostalgia of part one, you'll probably won't like it. But if you're looking for a high quality, brave and unique drama with breathtaking moments, insane details and a roller-coaster of emotions this is what you're looking for.
5660) The only reason it’s so low is because people are emotional over Joel’s death. The story wasn’t bad at all and made sense.
5661) Groundbreaking. Our generation needs this story. I love every singles bit of it. I am in love even when I simply think of it.
5662) Its a most game so to die of joel is one **** almost dont died for this form
5663) I just think the game is such a wonderful thing it has its mistakes like everything but i won't get disgusted at a game that i loved so much. Enjoy people and don't let others ruin your experience.
5664) The last of us part 2 is a depressing and sad game but it is one of the best games I have ever played in my life. The story is not predictable and neither is a fan service but it is one of the most human and complex stories ever told in video games. The graphics are simply the best of the generation and the gameplay is based on the first game but with very good improvements. The soundtrack is again very memorable and with more diversity when compared to the first game.,In my opinion the last of us part 2 is a masterpiece and is one of the best games I have ever played in my life.
5665) The game in its gameplay and the entire technical system is 10, in its history I loved it, not being afraid to kill its protagonist, putting yourself in the place of the "villain" and knowing his motives and life, for some moments I came to empathize with Abby, but always keeping in mind that she was Joel's murderer, it shows us that not because we love someone is she necessarily good, we love Joel and Ellie a lot, but being objective, they are bad people, Joel above all, demonstrating her selfishness above all and not respecting Ellie's decision, moved me a lot and made me feel very human
5666) This is hands down my favourite experience of the PS4 generation. The game uses the incredibly important narrative decision made by the lead in the first game to create compelling analysis of morality. I laughed, cried and was shook to my core by this story. It was an incredibly brave move to have us empathise with the character we looked at as the villain from the outset of this journey and while it's not a "perfect game" - something that doesn't exist - it is a masterpiece in empathy & understanding in storytelling.,,I really can't wait for an inevitable TLOU 3 and hopefully the continuation/conclusion of Ellies journey. This game will live with me, inside my psyche for the rest of my life.,,https://youtu.be/FpbZ9YqiKLQ
5667) this game is an incridible experience , i sure didnt expect the game to be like that but it doesnt matter since it's amazing this way , you should get it and ignore the haters because they clearly are just being toxic
5668) I have been playing video games for almost 20 years and this is now my favorite game of all time. The game looks absolutely amazing, the art style is gorgeous, the face expression is the best I have ever experienced in a game, the level of details is astonishing, gameplay is simple but polished and very enjoyable, whether you like stealth, gun fights or exploration, I usually get tired of games halfway through but not with this game. The story is a roller coaster of emotions from beginning to end, and is very well directed. It is darker, more mature and more realistic. I liked most of the characters even Abby and her crew. What people need to realize is that every person in the game has a back story that motivates his actions, and people that he cares about and wants to protect. We all played the first TLOU and grew to love Ellie and Joel, but the reality is that Joel by saving Ellie, made a slaughter house of fireflies in the hospital and doomed all humanity in the act (even Ellie was angry about it), so him having enemies that wants his head is natural and chances for it to actually happen was always high. Maybe his death could have been a little smoother I don't know. But hating the game just because of Joel dies is unjustified, It's like hating Game of Thrones just because Ned Stark dies. In brief, this game is a masterpiece and the best game I have ever played.,It saddens me how much free hate it is getting. The game got out the 19th of June I woke up in the next morning 10 hours after the release and there were already more than 10000 negative reviews (mostly zeros) complaining about everything even the ending!!! how is that even possible??? Imagine being like an art designer or something for the game working so hard for all these years creating this magnificent world and be rewarded with thousands of "0/10 this game is f****** garbage" by people who didn't even play the game. At least if you don't like the story (which is a subjective matter) give some credit to the undeniably good thing. No one can deny that the game looks amazing. No one can deny that the gameplay is great. No one can deny how good the game sounds. No one can deny that the cinematics are astounding. No one can deny that the facial expressions are astonishing... So please people don't hoop in the hate train without thinking for yourself.
5669) I want to **** every **** who give the score without even finishing the game. People is ****ing stupid, that's good
5670) This game his a gem with a storm of emotions   and a solid gameplay. He is also one of the most beautiful game of the PS4. I've loved The Last Of Us and the Part II is the Perfect sequel. Enjoy the game and stay away from spoilers !,spoilers
5671) What an emotional rollercoaster ride. The story perfectly displays raw emotion in it's most primal form. The characters were all stellar. If you were expecting a happy ending, you haven't been paying attention.
5672) PS4 finally got its crown,Graphics: the best out there with none high end pc game be able to be compared with its until now, not to mention the perfect lighting system,Sound: the right sounds in the right places,  the most thrilling moments ever done due to sound,Story: many plot twists, that no one can predict not even at the last moment they take place,Game play: similar to the previous game, with the correct additions it needed to be more realistic and flexible,Additional: amazing facial expressions, unbelievable human like dialogues, great detail in every landscape and building the most thrilling moments ever done in video game history, new game+
5673) It’s very clear that most of these reviews are from people who haven’t even played the game and many that judged from the leaks alone.,This is not a movie, it’s  video game. Play it and you’ll see why I have this a 10.,I can also see why people are mad that Joel died the way he did but you guys do realise this is a survival world not a Nickelodeon show.....,Additionally, people are complaining about the LGBT aspect of things. What LGBT aspect? Ellie likes girls and that’s the end of it there, nothing is forced.
5674) Just perfection. Amazing game. This is GOTY of year. Cinematic is amazing. Jeahh.
5675) Best ps4 game, love the story but not that one part of it :( but still love how it made and hope for little dlc like tlou left behind.
5676) One of the best game ever! Great graphic and gameplay, really thoughtful story. I cried, laughed and discuss the turns a lot. Bright and unexpectedly deep game
5677) Everyone is mad for such stupid things it's incredible. and i'm not gonna talk the homophobic mofo out there. Incredible game, Incredible story, incredible graphics
5678) The importance of knowing that everyone has a story is central to this game. The story is polarising especially if you have grown to love the Joel and Ellie, and ND was successful to make us feel a roller coaster of emotions throughout the game. I cried, I swore, I let Abby die once or twice, I swore again, I cried again and then I was happy. Conflicted but happy. This is a revenge story and it will never have a sweet ending, whether you got your revenge or not: it will only have two possible endings: death and redemption. It will be our choice which way we want to end up first.
5679) This game is a milestone for me.  Yes, the story is not particularly extensive, but neither is it supposed to.  The game grabs you at a certain point by the balls  and it is uncomfortable to continue playing.  This is intentional and brings a (deliberately predictable) twist that not many developers dare.,I can imagine that many of the mainstream gamers will not be able to cope with this maybe unusual kind of narrative, since this game is marketed as a mainstream game and many may feel cheated.  For me, the medium game is well used here because what this game does with you would not work so well with any other medium.  The game should be rated for what it wants to represent and it does it perfectly.  Tetris is also a good game, but nobody would rate Tetris bad for its simple graphics.  Unfortunately, that's exactly what people with TLOU do.  The game is about hate that gets out of control at some point the more you indulge in it.  Everyone who leaves a hate rating here does exactly what the game describes.  It is a kind of mirror of our all-destructive society.  Constructive criticism is important and always appropriate.  What is done here with TLOU is simply not fair.  Every gamer will benefit from this game because, as already mentioned, it is the new reference in terms of staging and other developers want to measure themselves against it. Have a nice day.,Sorry for my bad english that job did google for me.
5680) When they said that no one was ready for this game, they were right.  Each side can be the hero / villain of the story!  In my point of view by showing Abby as the protagonist, I can see, feel her side.  We love Joel, but we know that he killed many people, after all he made many enemies for all these years and at some point or time his death would come.  The game shows how revenge can destroy the lives of everyone around you and the consequences.  The story does not end well for anyone, as well as for someone who holds hatred in their hearts.  For those who say this story was bad, it has to be someone without a modicum of interpretation.  The game is not about revenge, but about empathy. This game is amazing.Thank you Naughty Dog!,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10,10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 ¡¡THAKS!!
5681) I loved this game, it is not better ghanés the fiesta para but anyways it deserves a 9.5 Graphics 10/10,History 7/10 años the rest is just perfect
5682) Man this game is great. I can't stop thinking about it. All I see are butthurt Joel fans. Yea I loved him too but his death was part of this brilliant tragic story. That's life especially in a zombie apocalypse. Game taught us alot about that there are always more sides two a story.
5683) A True successor to the original game, it was an amazing experience, the gameplay was Hella fun and the graphics we breathtaking(I though my ps4 was gonna expl whit such graphics) also the story kept surprising me continuously. I think this might be goty but ghost of tsushima might take take it. 10/10
5684) I know that some people dont like the story but how can it be a 0? Sadly a lot of people dont even know what this game is about they just give it a 0 beacuse why no?! Most of the negativ ratings are just haters who doesen’t even play videogames or dont have a playstation
5685) Its very very emotional!!,But its the best game ive ever played I hope a part 3 will coming :(
5686) Amazing game!!! Thank you Naughty Dog. It was a wonderful and unforgettable adventure.
5687) Most games always has a male playable character and people complain about it because no famales there. This one has TWO female protagonists and STILL all of you are complaining like **** just because how the story played out. I managed to avoid spoilers and i had a lot of fun, a lot. Of WOW moments....so yeah. And by protesting to change the story line its like protesting weeks ago. Just buy it and enjoy this master piece.
5688) The Last of Us part II is a dark drama-adventure tale like no other. The hate this game is receiving is unfair and is coming only from a bunch of kids who wanted fan service, happy endings and super heroes. It’s a game for adults and only adults can comprehend the message Naughty Dog wants to convey. A must play for all true gamers.
5689) The Last of Us 2 was amazing from start to finish. The game has you playing as the villain for half of it, allowing you to see things from their perspective. I found the writing to be so good, it had me questioning what I thought was right and wrong. Naughty Dog hit another home run with this game.
5690) Beautiful in both story and visuals, The Last of Us Part II is a triumph. Excellent writing, acting and characters. Couldn't be more happy with this game honestly, contains some of my favourite moments I've seen in any form of media. You have to play it yourself to fully understand the impact and intent of the story it's trying to tell.
5691) Masterpiece in every aspect of the word ..,I finished it and plan to play it many times again just like I did with the first part and the DLC Left Behind ..,Everything is perfect: story, lighting, world, graphics, gameplay, NPCs, scenario, music, and characters.,I've read the negative reviews and I saw that many either didn't understood Ellie's sexual orientation from the first part or didn't play it at all, others have mentioned that Naughty Dog has an agenda and they imposed it in the game .. come on .. this game is about having an agenda, there are other games made just for fun you can go and play it like Super Mario Odyssey and it us super great .. TLOU1 and 2 both have agendas if you didn't notice .. you have the right to disagree with it but don't deceive others and say that it deserves 0!!,All reviews were based on the leaks or the first couple of hours of the game which has a shocking event that make the game make sense imo and even the ending I saw it perfect and it fits Ellie's character 100%,On the other hand the game's gameplay is amazing and very enjoyable, very few commented on the gameplay which is 80% of the game and I really wished it didn't end, and I'd like to play more.,Play it .. think deeply about it, and don't judge it from only a reaction to one event or one idea ..
5692) This is perhaps the greatest story game of all time. Stick through the 30 hours and if you don’t come with pre-judged negative feelings then you will enjoy a type of game that doesn’t come around very often that it’s to be cherished. Only negative thing for me is, you only get to experience the game once.
5693) I loved the game! I liked the experience lived through both protagonists that clearly neither is a hero nor a villain Joel's death hurt me but it was still a good story.
5694) The game itself is very good, I could not imagine the code that's been made for it.,Surely the end is not as good as many people hoped for, but it shows why killing as an revenge is not the best solution to everything.
5695) the game got me. The atmosphere is thrilling. I love the relationship between Elli and Dina, especially the dialogs, they are so realistic and well written. i HATED the game when i was forced to leave Ellie and Dina behind and play Abby. I even stopped playing the game for a couple days. But when i continued, the game hooked me again. I am glad i finished it. I was emotionally involved like no other game and therefore i love it.
5696) Excellent overall game. Graphics, gameplay, animations, voice acting. It's far from revolutionary like the first one, but a masterpiece nonetheless. The story is very different from the first, and liking the first game's story doesn't guarantee you will like the second. Nevertheless it easily one of the best storytelling you can get on a PS4. Will go down as one of the best games of the generation.
5697) I absolutely love this game! It is absolutely gorgeous and very well made story/gameplay wise. Despite a lot of people being negative about it is really worth playing! I didn't agree with EVERYTHING that happens in the story but who does? ;) The story is really emotional and very much worth it
5698) beautiful Graphics, face animations, nice synchronization, intereseting storty and plot decisions, cool gameplay. I cant rate the studio and their bad decisions or the spoiler reveals, only the game. Just play the game and make your own opinion on this game.
5699) Graphics: 10/10, nothing much to say,Gameplay slightly improved (not much) from the first, still 10/10,Combat style: absolutely brutal in a good way: 10/10,Soundtrack 10/10,,Story, controvesial.. i still have to make my mind, but hats off to ND for taking this huge risk and not making a "simple" linear storyline like in the first game (yes you heard me, the story of a single dad losing his kid and then getting attached to another little girl is not THAT original, y'know).,But i was glued to the screen the entire time and i'm ready for a second playthrough, vote 8/10,,P.s. giving 10 because of the trollers who didn't play the game and review bombers
5700) Best story ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Game of the Year
5701) I have no words to describe what I felt with one of the best experiences of my life.,I can understand the criticisms regarding Joel's death, regarding the fact that Joel trusted a stranger. But they have to admit that the story is on another level ... The message of the story is incredible, how revenge ended up ruining his life and ended up destroying the only thing that joel left him (playing the guitar).,Again, the soundtrack is something perfect and that fits every moment of the game.
5702) I thought it was impossible to out-do the first game but they did it. It has its flaws (like everything and every human in life) but it’s a masterpiece. Story, emotion, level-design, gameplay and atmosphere-wise Naughty Dog have outdone themselves! This is one of the biggest achievements in gaming history. Masterpiece.
5703) Honestly, I think that this game was what it was supposed to be cinematically and so much improved from the TLoU1 mechanically. Storyline(spoiler after disclaimer) - Ellie and Abby’s arch’s make sense if you consider them as real people rather than characters in your story. PTSD, sorrow, sadness masquerading as revenge, and finding closure without finality are all real and I felt it all. I felt the rage and bloodlust after (spoilers until next paragraph) Joel’s death. I felt the confusion at finding all the dead in Seattle, I felt the tiredness at the end of day 2, the confusion and sense of duty as Abby, and when I was at the farm with my family I felt like I’m done but, can I just leave it like that. Once I was in this fight with Abby, I just didn’t want it to be so personal, why couldn’t I just shoot her. Why are the developers making me do this, imagine being Ellie in that fight. “Why do I have to kill her? I’m so tired. I’ve come so far. Is this really what I want or just what I think I need to do. This does nothing for Joel. This kid will die if I kill Abby. I just want this to be over.” And so she chose it to be over. To choose herself and her conscience over revenge. I loved it. Also, it had some of the unfairness of real life. I did all this **** to get the surgery kit for her to get merc’ed come on. Lol The story was great if you’re willing to let go of, well basically yourself, and realize Joel had a good heart yes. But he was far from perfect and made bad decisions, and was ultimately as selfish as everyone in that godforsaken world, and as Ellie have to go against that mentality in the end. Game mechanics - I liked everything the changed from the first,-Finally I have a knife,-I can jump,-I can craft arrows,-I can dodge and get into real brawls,-I can make silencers,-I can go prone,In general the gameplay was smoother and cleaner than a game from 2013 nothing to write home about. Cons-,It felt too easy...? I played it on the hardest mode and it felt pretty easy to kill anything, my ammo was usually full, my backpack was usually full, I found all of the cards. I hope they drop a harder update but that’s about all.,Thanks for reading!
5704) True emotional masterpiece! Thanks Naughty Dog for another one game that changes everything.
5705) This game is a literal masterpiece, Naughtydog did an amazing job playing with our emotions in such a way. Although most people don't agree to Joel's death, not everyone dies the honorable death they wanted in this cruel, harsh world. Naughty Dog also did a good job in making us feel sympathy for Abby, although she killed the fan-favorite Joel, she was on the same mission Ellie was on, they both extremely loved their "dads". The ending also completed it all,Ellie remembered the scene where she was on the porch with joel, telling him she will forgive him, she put 2 and 2 together and let Abby go. She also didnt want lev to lose Abby just like she lost Joel. What. A. Masterpiece.
5706) One of the best games ever!,Amazing graphics, characters and storyline. I really don’t get what other people are saying. The story is all about very human reactions. I love the way they try to show you that. You really have to play the game all the way to the end to see this.
5707) I love it, Despite the fan hate. Without all that, it tells a good but dark story.,I think you just have to be mature enough to understand the game.
5708) Phenomenal. Measures up to the first in every way and exceeds in quality of gameplay.
5709) Gameplay,story,characters and etc.Everything is in high quality. Even though this game for some extend has political reference,it doesn't affect to the game and to storyline.It has great gameplay and i enjoyed it. My recommendation is to not play this game without finishing the first part.
5710) All these sensitive crybabies hate this game because "ITZ 2 D33P!" Newsflash, you are living in COVID-19 times. It sucks, but are you fine? Probably. So why are you upset you idiots? You also cant hate the plot for this game because its perfect. The gameplay is also incredible. All of you are hating on this game because you are all mindless sheep. The game makes you feel guilt for requirements which is what videogames should do. Overall amazingly underrated and hated by sheep.
5711) Great game, dont look at this idi ots Who dont buy or play it...,Gameplay 10/10,Story 10/10,Music 10/10
5712) This is just one of the best games on PS4 and one of the best games at all!,Love it!
5713) Game is amazing in every way, spoiler alert only for names of characters.... sorry... but I didn’t think I’d like Abby but I loved her just as much as any other character, no idea where the hate is coming from, beyond me! A must play!
5714) I dont know why ppl hate this game, history and technical aspect is great! Its a only one game when i after finish game waiting to the end of credits.
5715) Amazing game. Please just because Joel dies Early on does not make the game bad! He's in it quite a bit more still. And the 2 storylines I found were great! Love it
5716) The best game by far !! Excellent graphics!! Super gameplay !!,Immersive history!!
5717) As a fan of the first game and someone that wasn't spoiled by the leaks I can can whole heartedly say I was not disappointed. Joel's death is not some pointless attempt at shock value as everyone wants to believe. Its creates interesting, reoccurring themes within the story (those being revenge, hate and forgiveness), it gives Ellie a complex character arc, it kicks off a brutal journey for us the player to go on and is a perfect way to continue the story beats of the first game. Also I cried like a baby so there's that too.,Abby is such an intriguing character and her tie to the first game was an amazing spin on the ending of the original. To be fair, her segment does go on too long but stick to it. Trust me you'll understand why you have to see Abby's perspective by the end. The only way I feel I can some up my feeling towards Abby's and her segment it that I said "I don't want to kill Abby!" aloud durring the final fight. Having her and Ellie's perspective is honestly what makes the ending as perfect as it is in my opinion.,The only other complaints towards the game that I get are that it's not what was promised in the advertising ("You think I'd let you do this in your own?") and the time hopping mixed with flashbacks within flashbacks is messy.,That said, I can't deny that I enjoyed it as much if not then slightly less than the first game. Slightly.,Next gen looking graphics and a stellar score don't hurt the experience either.
5718) You've got to be patient to get what the game is presenting to you. Also this game is one of the harshest games I've ever played.
5719) If you are able to immerse yourself into this lovingly crafted, emotional roller coaster of a story you will have a ton of fun. The characters are great and well portrayed, you get to feel for these characters that live in such a harsh reality and live through their struggles with them. This game is a true masterpiece while some might not like the story direction it is the only story that would even make sense to justify a sequel. Regardless of that the game to risks and imo succeeded with flying colors, it left me wondering what’s good or evil and the grey that surely is in between.
5720) For the love of god, don't pay heed to any reviews where it's clear the person hasn't actually finished, let alone even played the game. This is a tricky one to analyze. I don't need to go into spoilers because it's a moot point. TLOU 1 is one of my all time favorites which goes without saying I care very much about the characters (i.e. Joel & Ellie). What completely blows my mind is the fact that the review bombers are so soft that they can't handle a main character getting killed off. I suspect that as more people actually finish the game and experience Abby's story arc, the user score will raise (not dramatically, but a little bit). The story is not black and white. It's complicated, morally ambiguous, and the payoff is incredible. There's not much I can say that hasn't already been said about the graphics, gameplay, writing, etc. TLOU 2 is a huge strive forward for single player narrative driven games. It requires patience, thought, and an open mind. What's most confusing is the review bombing. One would think that if people actually cared about TLOU, its characters, its lore, and the world of TLOU, they would have the decency to finish the game before spewing vitriol across the internet. Do I think everyone should agree that the game is a 10/10? Certainly not. If you finished it and still think it's terrible, I completely respect your opinion. What's absurd is people not even playing it. This isn't surprising in the least, but completely disappointing.
5721) This game is phenomenal! I have no idea why anyone would say other wise. From the gameplay to the graphics to the story it had my mind blown. People are so closed minded and want things to go the cliche way which causes them to be blinded and miss out on a fantastic experience. This game was about not judging things before you truly take the time to understand them how forgiveness is more powerful than vengeance and how your choices have consequences that you have to be able to accept and move on from. Outstanding job Mr. Druckmann and team Naughty Dog for yet another masterpiece and continue to look for light in the darkness!!
5722) It's one of the best games I've ever played. The spoilers prior to release unfairly potrayed content to the player in such a way that misrepresents the experience this game actually has to offer. After experiencing said events in the story the way they were meant to be I can truly say that not only does this game constitute a proper follow-up to the first game, it is an outstanding and masterfully crafted experience that is without a doubt among the masterpieces of this console generation alongside games like Red Dead Redemption II or The Witcher.,I am truly glad that I didn't allow the hive mind hate for this game to keep me from one of the most precious gaming experiences I have ever had.
5723) 90% of these negative reviews are people who haven't played the game or people who quit the game when their feelings got hurt. great game with lots of hard work put into it, one of the best looking games on ps4, voice acting and game play was top notch too. i agree the story is not for everyone but the game is still good at the end of the day. these "Fans" are mad that TLOU2 didn't have a happy ending with Ellie and Joel, but life isn't always happy endings especially in a zombie apocalypse. some fans arent even trying the game and will hate on it. not real fans. just sheep getting on the band wagon of hating something.
5724) An unbelievable story, such beautiful like RDR2. Not an open-world game, but this is not the goal. Just a story about descent into hell, a story about choice & consequences.
5725) The game is amazing I don't know why everyone is crying about it. Stop review bombing a game you haven't played
5726) This game is amazing. At first I was skeptical when I had to play with Abby cause we all hate the fact she killed Joel. But while playing her part of the story you learn we are all a bad guy in someone's story. The part where you're hitting Ellie in the face was as heartbreaking as the ending where you're hitting Abby in the face. And because of these conflicting emotions this game separates itself from all others.,My heart was heavy when I finished this game and having that lingering emotion, makes this game a masterpiece in my eyes.
5727) A masterpiece. Graphics, sounds and all the technical parts are just perfect. The storyline is not what you expect to be, but this is an unique experience. There are some parts of story I did not enjoy, but it is all subjective. I personally enjoyed the game, totally recommend
5728) Never usually post reviews but I feel the amount of hate this game is getting is unfair.,,I loved the game from start to finish with the gameplay and story keeping me hooked along with how amazing the game looks. Very well written and acted, I felt so immersed within the game throughout and thoroughly enjoyed it.,,Very, very good game. It’s a shame of the reception it has achieved.
5729) Personally more an 8.5 than a 10, but if other reviewers can completely make up their rating so can I?
5730) After finishing the game twice, I only can say that this is one of the best games that I've ever played. Maybe the narrative is not as iconic as the first one, but it's also very good written. The graphics are the best of the generation, very good soundtrack from Gustavo Santaolalla, quick and intense gameplay... I loved it, from beggining to end.
5731) An absolutely relentless **** experience. Just doesn't stop from the beginning til the end.
5732) The sequel to one of the PS3s last and biggest hits. TLOU2 hit us with a number of surprises that some people didn't react too well to. I felt the way the game weaved a narrative around these decisions, still made me care about these new characters, and engage with the storyline. Is it the best storyline ever told? Far from it. But it's also some of the most cinematic, engaging content I've seen in gaming. The gameplay was also engaging, and at times unbelievably tense. The ending was divisive, but made sense if you expect characters to actually grow, as opposed to acting as a vessel for your own outrage at direction choices.,,Loved it
5733) I really think this game is something like a 9.5, but since decimal aren't avaible and this game has received a ridiculous and unfair review bombing i'm gonna give a 10. This game is phenomenal, one of the best if not the best game of the generations, the visual is gorgeous, gameplay evolved in a very interesting way with new mechanics, the atmosphere and world design is astonishing, level design has evolve a lot compared to the first one.,The game manage to put the player in situations that are always different and interesting, continuously surprising,  and considering this is like a 30 hours game it is really something incredible.,Many have problems with the story, personally I was never so engaged in a video game story, and hearing the complaints, it seems to me those are pretty much whims.
5734) Took me a while to appreciate the story but ellie is still a little bad ass.  I already see where part III is going, great game 10/10.
5735) Amazing game in everything,Characters,story,graphism.,I don't understand rating of gamers(i think a lot of people don't play tlou 2)
5736) A perfect game and emotive history, undoubted quality. I think it is an essential on the shelf
5737) This is honestly the best game I have ever played in my life. From the art, the music, the story
5738) Incredibly crafted and a great sequel that visits the harsh reality of the world in The Last of Us. The game takes risks that pay off but also allows the player to question their own morals whilst following this journey.
5739) I have finished this game in 28 hours . I can tell  you that this is more than I expected . I really love this game how story goes on and give you the best experience game-play and visual . Don't care about haters . If you know nothing about spoilers likes me, It will give you the best experience to play this game  and yep , no one pay me .
5740) I enjoyed the Game very much. The Story isn‘t meant to be satisfying, I get that much. It hurts at times. Yeah you hate some characters but thats Part of Every story. At least in the end it was an experience. Cant hate a Game for that. And all the gamers who consider themselves betrayed should just let it be and focus on bashing the next game.
5741) this game is very good. The story is perfect  and the characters are captivating
5742) !!!SPOILER REVIEW!!!,I'm writing this review in hopes the games gets the praise it deserves.,Graphics are phenomenal, the best of the best on the current gen, the attention to detail, the lighting, the shading, the effects, e v e r y t h i n g.,Music fits perfectly with everything, the sound is also really realistic and well made.,,Where people seem to have an issue with is how the story is tailored, people were expecting good old Ellie and Joel adventure, and the game would've been just fine had they done it this way, but Naughty Dog chose the uncommon way, taking a lot of risks and, in my opinion, succeeding at it.,Naughty Dog picks the story 4 years after the first one in a setting where everything seems to be fine, playing the guitar with joel etc.,They introduce us to another character - Abby - which is majorly the reason people are despising this game.,Abby kills Joel and that fact alone pushed a lot of people away, people reviewing the game by playing only about 3h of a 30+hour game,After the death of joel the people who kept playing experienced the violent and gorish side of Ellie, and her pursuit to kill Abby, but, at some point Abby has the upper hand on Ellie and the developers leave you on a huge cliffhanger "is Ellie dead??" and right then an there you enter a 10hour long Abby side of the story, this reeeeally threw people off, why would you want to play as the person who killed you beloved joel? And even in my case i didn't want to play as her, all i wanted was Ellie and more Ellie and moments of her and Joel and violence and her killing Abby, BUT at some point you gain empathy with Abby, you understand her side, the whole story of her and the "scars" children is one of the more rich aspects of the whole last of us story.,After the whole Abby arc you get back to where Abby confronted Ellie and this part is like Naughty Dog is just completely playing with the heart of the player, you get put in a position like no other where you have to sneak up on Ellie and just destroy her with punches about 3 times, this scene alone invokes feeling I have NEVER felt in a videogame before "i dont wanna do this WTF??" but at the same you know the things Abby has gone through because of Joel and Ellie's decisions. At the end Abby leaves Ellie alone and we get a time skip to Ellie living in a perfect setting with DIna, the "happy ending" right? Hell no, Naughty Dog is not done, they push it further, Ellie leaves the house at some point against Dina's request to stay by her side with the baby. We enter the final arc, Ellie pursues Abby to the place she and the "scar" kid were kidnapped to.,The moment they meet again Abby is just DONE, skinny-short-haired abby doesn't even care about anything other than getting away with the kid. Ellie has a flashback of her murdering joel and they begin the final confrontation, but ellie has another flashback of joel playing the guitar and that triggers a thought of caring for someone, Abby caring for this kid like joel cared for Ellie, and then they go their separate ways.,The game ends with Ellie getting to her "perfect" home again but it is empty besides her stuff, she picks up the guitar and starts playing the song that Joel taught her in the beginning of the game but it sounds a bit off due to the two bitten of fingers. She then leaves the home like some kind of open ending "where will she go and what will happen now?".,,Last of Us II is by no means a perfect game, i think the story could've been tailored just a bit differently and the gameplay could've been more innovative, but that doesn't mean it is not a amazing, like the first game you still feel the same emotions, but they added a lot more and gave steroids to every each one of it.,,The Last of Us II is a game that will be remembered forever, many many people don't like getting played with their emotions this way, but if you open your mind and get past through that uncomfortableness you SEE the amazing game it is, you understand the choices of the developers and you get something like no other game does.,,9.5/10
5743) The game is great and i've actually finished it.,Other than some minor pacing issues this game is a step up from everything that made the first one great. Can't wait to see what ND does next on PS5.,Thank you ND for this game
5744) For haters...The only reason people are so in love with Ellie and Joel is because we were forced to become emotionally attached to them in the first game.  Imagine if in Part 1 we were playing Abby and her father.  The object of the game was to survive and create a cure.  You spend hours getting to know them and seeing the love between father and daughter.  Then, OMG you find out there's a girl who's immune and that may be your only hope of saving everybody.  But there's a cost, extract what you need from her brain will kill her.  Moral dilemma...you ultimately decide the needs of the many out way the needs of the few...or the ONE.  Abby and her father fought through unspeakable horrors to make it to the hospital and they have the girl. They have no idea who Joel is, then right before you're about to perform the surgery a guy busts in and murders you.  Abby later sees her beloved father, savior of humanity, brutally murdered by some monster.  HOW DOES PART II LOOK NOW?
5745) Last of Us Part II is a game that you cannot stop thinking about once you finish it. The game spends its story pushing perspective and empathy to further challenge the players satisfaction on Ellie’s revenge. With the gameplay pushing the medium to new heights. Each encounter holds thousands of possibilities, with AI that challenges you tremendously. With the best graphics in any video game hands down. The game is definitely the best technical and narrative achievement on ps4.
5746) Best game ever!Storyline,gameplay, voiceacting and facial animation all outshine anything I have ever played before. Pay no attention to haters.
5747) The game is a masterpiece in all ways. Don't trust emotional zeroes. People dislike changes. Some trailer moments were false advertising though.
5748) Phenomenal gameplay and graphics and an awesome story! ND have really succeded with this game, and it deserves all the love, not hate
5749) as a game player, i think the game is leading us to a new edge for game playing
5750) What an amazing game! I am blown away by all of the emotions I felt during this game. I highly recommend people play it and give it a chance.
5751) This was a stellar game. The story was very strong and affecting despite what you may have heard, and the presentation is incredible.,The gameplay was also excellent - if you enjoyed the original game, you're sure to be right at home here - it plays very similarly, though many aspects have been refined.,If you've been on the fence about this one, I would encourage you to take the leap and experience it for yourself. You'll be very glad you did.
5752) Don't even read the negative comments. This game has one of the best stories I have ever played.
5753) Overall it is top 3 of one of the best games for PS4 I‘d say.,The gameplay and levels give you a lot of freedom. You have enough different tools and moves to be successful. Whether you need to sneak around or kill some varieties of enemy’s  or you discover beautiful designed levels and overcome the next obstacles. Sometimes just an obstacle turns out to be one of the highlights of the game.,,Most importantly the story. It is a vehemence.,You get the chance to play a game that could not be more gray in terms of what or who is right. At frist it was kind of weird to switch and actually the the story from another perspective .Espacially because you are switching at a really important moment of the story. But after taking and going  that way till the end it all makes sense and it can only fullfill all its strength of storytelling by doing exactly that. You are playing hero and bad guy at the same time.,,What can I say about the score. I just love Gustavo Santaolalla s music. It is fully driven by emotions and it gave me goosebumps multiple  I am sorry but I can‘t take the writing system of this internet mobile phone page anymore. It is too buggy. I just wanted the overall score to raise, because it is a wonderful game.    times. I also love the guigameplaygoosebumps
5754) Is the best game in a lifetime, I would like to congratulate the developers for 7 years of work and Jacob Minkoff For writing a great work of art and he was right, this game is not for all audiences.
5755) The game is good; everyone needs to chill out. If you liked anything about the first game, this one is worth playing.
5756) Incredible game. It's got serious pacing issues, but the story, gameplay, graphics, sound design, animations, and acting are all top notch.
5757) This game is truly amazing just like the first one. It got spectacular awards and reviews by professionals. Then a bunch of basement dwellers comes along and ruins it because they are upset since the story they imagined has not been told here but instead an original story absent of ridiculous cliches. seriously... people giving this a 0 or a 1? Seriously? This game must have been the worst game ever made to deserve a 0... and we know that is not the case. You are a bunch of cowardly trolls and you do not deserve to play this game. As for the leaks and spoilers... That is on you my friends. I chose not to look at any of them and I did not see a single leak because I chose NOT TO LOOK AT THEM! That is 100% your own fault if you chose to not ignore the leaks. Now, because of the leaks that YOU CHOSE TO LOOK AT, you want to cry like a baby and give a bad review? Please grow up.,,Have a nice day.
5758) So I just finished playing the Last of Us 2, played it in Hard, took me about a week, taking my time and breathing in the moments. What can I say. In all my years as a gamer (30+) no game has ever had me dropping the controller, sweating, crying and laughing as much as this one. The graphics are jaw-dropping, the gameplay (especially the stealth) is some of the best and most precise, and the story is one the  best game, nay, movie or otherwise, that I have ever seen. I hope the inevitable HBO series does it justice. For those of you complaining, it's not your story. You just get to be a part of it. Enjoy the ride and live in peace.
5759) This game really increases the drama and tension. The story is great and the gameplay is better than the first one. Graphics are amazing. So much to look at and explore. Don’t listen to the negative reviews. Haters are going to hate.
5760) the best game of the year, I do not understand the hatred they give him, the story is complex but if you give yourself the time to understand the thoughts of the characters you will understand that everything fits
5761) This game starts off with a memory of joel and ellie after the events of the first game, and will end many years later, but the game in general will have a lot to show that might be questionable to some fans and will sit firm with some. After the game starts, you immediately feel the world and the characters, the combat feels nice and smooth and will change through difficulty, but the main focus here is the storyline, the storyline was intriguing and depressing but still interesting in a good way. This game wants to show us the amount of work and pressure was put into it, and the developers delivered the game will definitely go down in history for killing off a character other companies wouldn't dare to touch, joel sadly gets beaten by a golf club, but this will become the main story for the rest of the game, the story is hard to understand but if you take the time and really understand it you realize, everything comes together even if you might not like abby she will still become a relevant character that gets misunderstood because so many people think joel is a badass and untouchable, and although we think he is great, he would probably go down as the worst man in history because of his selfishness, joel ultimately gets killed by someone who wants a eye for an eye, and even to end this will be obvios and contributes to the story. Characters are as lovable as ever and will mostly be different which adds diversity and uniqueness to the game and im definitely going back in for another playthrough to see if i find new details on them. The combat doesn't get to much added but it still manages to feel more diverse and vast, but the gun combat will sometime feel just off but it usually doesn't matter because it goes back to its great gun combat almost immediately and stops the awkwardness. Overall The last of us part 2 will go down in history as a great sequel, and will not be doubted until you play the game for your self, but if you dont like the game its okay, thats just life
5762) Last of us part 2 is a great addition to the playstation family with a very thought out story that challenges your thinking, challenges your loyalties and shows you in the last of us universe, each action could have a painful consequence. Great gameplay, great graphic and a very intriguing story.
5763) The game is great. Yes, the story may disappoint many, but at the end of the day it's a game. And as a game it's a 10/10 masterpiece. I do understand why you might think it's bad, but this is my opinion. I stand by it.
5764) After 2 days of completing the story and comprehending it here's my review.,The reason many people straight up end up hating on the game is due to the fact Joel dies in the first act itself but as we (ellie) continues our pursuit of vengeance the further we go the more it hurts us and everybody around us. By the time we reach aquarium and kill pregnant mel thats when we-the character really start to question our actions.,Then the clock resets to Seattle day 1 and we play as the character which seems the antagonist to us from the beginning act but as we deep dive into her story we realise she got her revenge but that didn't stop her from having nightmares and in the process she loses everyone close to her. In the end it's lev who stops her from killing Dina ending the cycle of violence.,In the end Ellie finally realises that revenge is just not worth it but her pursuit of it throughout the events of the story has a cost. The cost being she ends up alone, her worst fear comes to life but she is finally at peace with herself and Joel.
5765) This game is a masterpiece. The narrative the team at Naughty Dog have assembled is the most subversive, impactful and lingering that I’ve ever experienced in a video game. The gameplay has been fine-tuned and improved on every front from the first game - every encounter is thrilling and I thoroughly recommend playing on hard. The attention to detail in every design element is unbelievable. The actions and responses of haters online are not only juvenile but morally bankrupt, I feel immensely sorry for the studio team for the love and creativity invested in developing the game for years only to be met with this response. As someone who *actually played and finished the game* but is also an avid fan of the first game and it’d characters, I say with confidence that this is a revolutionary title that is worth your time.
5766) Amazing characters, great story, new additions to gameplay that were fun. Extremely accessible
5767) The Last of Us was my top game of all time. Part 2 has now usurped its predecessor. Don't listen to the chuds; this game is a true masterpiece. I've never encountered such vivid, fleshed out characters in a game before, and the voice acting blows everything else out of the water.
5768) Absolutely loved this game! I understand why some people might not like the direction this game chose to go but it just worked for me.
5769) Absolutely loved this game. Unlike a lot of other people I grew to dislike Ellie more than Abby by the end. Abby let her live twice when she could have killed her. Ellie just wanted revenge so bad that she didn't care who got hurt. Also the ending was phenomenal and had my jaw on the floor during the final fight.
5770) Light spoilers This game is brilliant from start to finish. It’s emotional and brutal. It pushes the player to feel things and it is sometimes uncomfortable to play but the story is so engaging. You’re often left wondering “who’s the good guys and who’s the bad guys here” and the answer is up to you and your perspective. All the characters have reasons for their actions and Naughty Dog allows the player to act them out, we see different view points that have us going back and forth on who’s “side” we’re on. The violence is often criticised but in this hyper violent, mostly lawless post apocalyptic world, it’s all the characters really know. The lighter moments of the game are beautiful, picking up a guitar as Ellie and listening to her play Take on Me is one of my favourite parts of the game. Visiting the museum and aquarium are a welcome relief from the tense gameplay you’re often faced with. Naughty Dog has gone to great lengths to make The Last Of Us Part II accessible. They want you to play the game, to experience the story and if that means you play it on very light mode with various gameplay toggles on, such as auto aim and invisible while prone, then that’s ok! Naughty Dog clearly want as many people as possible to experience this game and I can’t recommend it enough.
5771) Not a fan service story. A very risky screen-play which is not for all tastes.
5772) NaughtyDog does it again. When it comes to storytelling they are the first developers that comes to our minds. This is an bold move into storytelling where a revenge story is not an action spectacle but an disturbing and depressing story which makes you ask yourself how far will you go for revenge? What is the cost? Will it be worth it? No doubt the gameplay, graphics, character models, facial expressions, environments, survival horror is top notch and a big take into gaming. After playing this game any other upcoming games feels and looks like nothing. One thing that i would like to say about this game is that after pplaying this game the first one feels justified and there could have been no other story that would have made you feel these rolercoster of emotions and successor to the first game. This game in every possible way including story importantly is far better than the first game.
5773) Perfect game. Ignore the review bombers. This is one of the most impressive games you'll ever see. If you liked the first, you'll love this one too, and probably even more so.
5774) Such an amazing journey. This game is an absolute masterpiece.,No more words needed.
5775) This game was phenomenal. The gameplay was so crisp and a great evolution of the first one. The first half in Seattle is just a joy to explore. I can't say enough good things about the voice acting in this game. The amount of accessibility in this game for gameplay/audio/visuals is a new standard that all games should arrive for. This game is a must play!
5776) Incredible. Just incredible. Hard to say much more. Can't wait to play trough it all again.
5777) I only have one word for this: MASTERPIECE. I really enjoyed this game. Well done naughty dog.
5778) This game is different compared to the first game, it’s different because the story isn’t focused on the bonding of Ellie and Joel. It’s about how you will loose things in life and how it’s hard to deal with it. This is shown because Ellie seeks revenge for Joel’s death. Naughtydog could’ve gone with another bonding story of the two characters we love, but they didn’t do that because there would be no need for a sequel. That’s why this game is different to the other, and I thought it was amazing.
5779) loved it. a worthy successor to the first. it must be experienced yourself!
5780) This is one of the most immersive games I've ever played, I truly felt like I was part of the story. Although at first the change in perspective was very surprising, especially when you realize it's basically half of the game, it was very much needed and gave depth to all the characters. The moral conflict of every characters' decisions made the game even more engaging and almost by the end of the story when Ellie and Abby confront each other, you really don't know who to cheer for.,Since I played both the prequel and this game for the story, the repetitive gameplay doesn't bother me. I did enjoy stealth kills and the part with the mini sandbox mode when exploring Seattle was one of the highlights of gameplay since it gave the player choices and wasn't as linear. Lastly, I'm very thankful to Naughty Dog for giving LGBTQ+ representation in a mainstream video game. I'd love for a small DLC epilogue where Ellie and Dina get back together.
5781) Fantastic game. Worthy of the praise from critics. It's story line is ballsy but deep and reflective. After the dumb fanboy hate dies down it will be remember very fondly in the future. It's basically gamings own Godfather Part II.
5782) It really is amazing how every level is well designed and let's your creativity flow.
5783) Just finished my first play through and I absolutely loved it. Fantastic performances, heart breaking, gut wrenching moments, an incredibly beautiful soundtrack. Top notch game, I'm also really, really, rrrreeeeeallly enjoying watching all the homophobes have a butthurt melt down. Haha.
5784) O game was the best game, the story and characterization were great, especially the game's graphics. I think those who hate the game should not play better. "You don't understand," says the Joker
5785) Its an excellent game. The story is devastating, depressing and sad, but well demonstrated with clear objectives. Good job Naughty Dogs.
5786) No other media could better send the message than video-games and this one truly does. Yes, the game will make you feel uncomfortable, perhaps even disgusted but you will truly feel it and that's what art is about. Must play for everyone.
5787) Best selling exclusive in tis first week in all PS4 history wuth more than four millions sold. Cry haters, cry.
5788) This game is quite simply a masterpiece.  It's a story about the toxicity of seeking revenge. NaughtyDog manages to give both Ellie and Abby amazing parallel character arcs. By the end, it's become clear that this world sucks and everyone in it is just a product of their experiences and actions. The Last of Us Part 2 builds on its predecessor in every way. The combat, the story, the character development, the stealth are all perfected. Granted, about halfway through the gate you might have the sudden urge to stop playing. But if you stick with it, you'll be rewarded with one of the best conclusions to a story you'll experience. Before playing this game Red Dead Redemption 2 was my favorite single player story. . Now I'm not sure which I love more.
5789) Excellent addition to the franchise. Naughty dog realized and excellent work with character and world development. Without a doubt this is a must play game.
5790) Genuinely one of the best games I’ve ever played. Prepare for an emotional rollercoaster.
5791) You may not like the story, but no one can deny this game is one of the PS4 most beautiful looking game, great sound effects, great level design, voice acting and animations.,For me it was very satisfying seeing story that is not the old and tired good guys vs bad guys most games have nowadays.
5792) Wow, I am blown away by how good this game turned out. I just finished it last night and the ending left me feeling content but at the same time thinking. I love what they did with the characters, and the one controversial character death was absolutely fine with me. Yes it was a shocking moment (I cried a lot) but it drove the story forward and became the basis of the whole plot.,Abby is a great new character. All it takes is getting over your initial hatred and realizing she is the same as Ellie, just a girl trying to survive and do what she thinks is best. She had good reason to do what she did. The ending really blew me away in how that dire and brutal story line could end on a bit more positive note but it really did it!,Needless to say, the graphics, sound, animations, music and voice acting are all superb. This is already my game of the year, easily.
5793) Just finished the game and I must say, I really enjoyed playing it. The roller coaster of emotions that you experience throughout the story seriously leave you on edge.
5794) I didn’t saw the leaks. I wanted to judge it after playing it. I believe they did to the gaming industry what toy story did to the movie industry. These guys are like tue pixar of gaming. Enough said. INCREDIBLE.
5795) The game is a wonder, the graphics are beautiful, the scenarios are very detailed, each place tells a story, the game play is basically the same as the first game, but improved in a very impressive way, the artificial intelligence is very good, the movement is very fluid, the soundtrack is as good as the first game.,,Also, the game has many difficulty options, you can modify the intelligence of enemies, allies, the amount of resources that appear, the damage taken, and how effective is stealth. Also recognize the great work in accesibility options.,,The story, well, I personally loved it, moved me all my emotions, but I understand why the dislike of many people, in that regard, either you love it or you hate it, but in all other respects, the game is wonderful.
5796) This game is amazing...ND, you did an outstanding job. The story writing, details and game interaction are superb. This is the only game where im more interested in the cinematic than interacting with the game. Dont late the haters bring you guys down. The user ratings are low because a bunch of homophobes decided to rste the game low before attempting to play it. Hoping fir another segment to the chapter in the future!
5797) Brilliant story, brilliant graphics, brilliant gameplay, this game is a masterpiece, a risky game, not made to please fans, Naughty Dog made risky choices brilliantly, but obviously, not for everyone, it's almost PERFECT, but is not perfect, is a 10 rate game. The simply fact that you end with tears in eyes, made his a must play.
5798) the last of us 2 is a beautiful, harrowing story about revenge and the cycle of vengeance, as well as the pain and loss that people experience in going through such a thing. it's absolutely beautiful in the same way that something like apocalypse now is, the image of people stripped bare and left with absolutely nothing because of the lengths they will go to in order to satisfy their obsession. I can't say much more other than it hurt me and left me feeling empty in a way I haven't felt in a long time, and I say that in the best way I can.
5799) The story is actually quite amazing. It is a deep look into the meaningless and seeking in a post-apocalypse world. Almost every character's motivation and action revolve around this theme.
5800) The Last Of Us Part 2 may not be for everyone, but it is definitely for me. It is controversial, but if you are willing to be open minded in the direction of the game you will have one hell of an experience.
5801) Whoever says this game sucks he either hasn't played it or is too prejudiced.This is the best game i have ever played!The journey of emotions you go through this game is unbelievable.Please open your mind and see what the artists are trying to tell you through this amazing story.
5802) Ignore the hate. Play it first and be your own judge! Clearly 99% bad reviews aren't a criticism, but a rant with 0hrs of gameplay.
5803) Gameplay of the game is great also the story are amazing. Try to play this game and  judge then!!
5804) Pretty amazing game love how the world is built and how much more survival of the fittest is in the game and less zombies do gotta say alot of mess up scenes and actions in the game but eh thats what you get from a mature game would like to see a 3 game maybe one where Abby takes over or maybe a prequel to Joel before he met ellie
5805) The exhausting rhythm, narrative, plot twists, different approaches to the core game play and the length of the adventure itself -30 to 35 h-, together make TLOU: Part 2 a must-play game for any survival-horror, adventure or stealth lover. Production values are sky rocket, and it’s not surprising that Naughty Dog decided to launch this game after several years of development, after knowing every inch of the PS4 hardware and taking full advantage of it. TLOU: Part 2 brilliantly closes the story of two lonely individuals, told in at least, two parts.
5806) Masterful gameplay and breakthrough character arcs. The characters you love will downward spiral. Does that make it bad? No, it's a hard to watch drama and there is nothing l like it. Very brave story.
5807) The Last of Us Part II is technically stunning, with some of the best graphics, environments, motion-capture performances, character animations, and set pieces ever constructed for a video game. It builds on and surpasses its predecessor (and the games of the Uncharted series) to an almost absurd degree. I can't wait to see what Naughty Dog is able to achieve technically on the PlayStation 5.,,It does all of that while telling a much more nuanced and difficult story than is typical for video games, even in other compelling narrative-driven games.,,The Last of Us Part II doesn't give you the illusion of choice, but it does pull you in and make you complicit in the actions of these characters. When you watch a film, it's possible to maintain a mental distance from the actions characters take. Even for a character you identify or sympathize with you remain a passive observer. You aren't allowed to do that here. You will hate some of the things these characters do, and feel disgusted by their brutality and remorselessness. You will also love the quiet periods in-between and the playful interactions between old friends, and wish those moments could last.,,This is not a game that wants to satisfy you -- it wants to challenge you. Your reward is the time you spend in its magnificently damaged world and the many ways it makes you feel along its path.,,Nothing created is perfect, including this game, but to me it is a masterpiece and I will cherish my relationship with it forever.
5808) Well, I don't even know how to start... As a developer myself, i know it's impossible to please everyone, even more in a game like The Last of Us, a huge hit. I saw plenty of people saying that the end of TLoU Part I was "Happier" than it should be, now people are complaining about a character being killed... In my opinion, i think they took the right way doing this, because then we could explore more Ellie, Tommy and all the new characters in some different ways. I really enjoyed playing as Abby, it's good to see both sides of the story, plus, we can see how things we did with Ellie interfered in Abby's story. The saddest part for me wasn't Joel's death, it was when Ellie comes back  from Santa Barbara and the Dina is not there anymore, there's nothing left but Ellie's things. I understand that some of you didn't like Joel's death, but the game has a huge story besides that, amazing by the way. If you have a bad review about a game just because of a plot and ignore everything else, including the incredible gameplay and mechanics, you need to grow up and try to be mature.
5809) This game was so beautiful and amazing! I love the story and every aspect of it
5810) This game is a rollercoaster ride of emotions, you live an awesome experience playing a game that is a masterpiece, don´t believe the haters.  Already waiting for the third part.
5811) Amazing game along with amazing combat and gameplay. Stunning visuals and an unorthodox story which some ppl might not like .
5812) Amazing. Ignore the negative Nancy's. You're missing out on the best game of its generation if you don't play it.,The storyline is alot more intelligent than pandering to the fairy tale that people wanted. It's dark, it's emotional, it makes you feel, it makes you question yourself. That ontop of the amazing graphics and gameplay. You simply cannot ask for a better game.,Personally, I love the unique perspective they give you on all the different characters, and how they show you there is no real good guy-bad guy when it comes to real life situations, people are much more complex than that. I also love how long the game is, all the different variations in gameplay & scenery. 5/5
5813) In my opinion Joel's death is realistic and it made the story very interesting.,Playing as Abby was a bit strange in the beginning but in the end I had more fun with her story line than with Ellie's.,The graphics are just stunning. The sound is amazing. Gameplay is the best I have ever experienced. The game could have been shorter though. In the end I just wanted to know how it ends and I think 5 less hours could have worked as well. But this is the only small negative point that comes to my mind about TLOU 2.
5814) I genuinely don't understand the hate this game is getting. I'm convinced the vast majority of negative reviews come from people who haven't even played the game. Yes, this game does have a couple lgbtq+ characters, but so does the audience playing this game, and Ellie has been gay since the first game.  Furthermore, people are mad about how Joel died, but as far as I'm concerned the portion was written well. He was forced into a situation of being around strangers, none of which showed hostility until he gave his name. All in all this game has the best graphics on ps4, some of the best gameplay on ps4, and a truly immersive storyline that forces you to feel emotions and get involved on a deeper level.
5815) Just finished the game. Absolute masterpiece. The gameplay is great, the graphics are great and the story is great too. It really gives a broader context to the story of TLOU1 too. Absolutely recommend the game, regardless of the reviewbombers (who haven't even played the game)
5816) people are trying to hard to say this game is something its not. Take a break from the world around you and sink in to this game, youll cry its ok 10/10 if pvp is added 12/10
5817) FOR ME GOTY,theres no  game like last of us,i really like this game,best game ever
5818) Very good, I found the game very good, good gameplay very interactive, they could stop so much unnecessary hate because the game is great.
5819) The Last of Us Part ll is a great game. Beautifully crafted and with an impeccable and stunning visual design, full of drama and darkness, it takes Ellie's story through darker horizons, a wonderful soundtrack although not as bright as its predecessor, still one of the best games of the generation and in its genre. .
5820) Beatifull seatle!,Gamplay os fantástico,The history is no bad,I like! Need the multiplayer
5821) This game is a masterpiece, the writting, the detail, the narrative. It's so fun to play as well, I've never felt bored and god it was scary and intense. All I have to say is I'm forever changed. The story brought me so much, it showed me how monsters don't exist but bad choices do. The world building is amazing and unforgettable. I don't hate ellie, I love her still. Like I love Abby and Dina. This game was perfect from start to finish. I also wanna say that the characters felt real, like real people to me and I couldn't have asked for anything better. Fantastic c ending. I hope Ellie comes back to me in the future, I hope she finds peace within herself. I want this world and characters to be experienced by everyone. It's  wild ride.  Buckle up
5822) Good story, Great gameplay, Amazing Graphics and The characters development is awesome, MASTERPIECE
5823) It’s a good game, not as good as the first one, but not as bad as others describe it to be
5824) There is no game like this. Graphics, sound and gameplay is one of the best of this generation. But the story telling is taken to a level which is rarely achieved even in movies.
5825) Just a 10 to go against the childish haters.,Not liking the story is one thing, but review bombing it... kids these days...
5826) Amazing game. Great history, fantastic graphics! :) Sadly, it suffered too much hate before launch by people who doesn't even played the game.
5827) A game that is too huge for the small minded. One of the best and most human entertainment experiences ever. Thank you, Naughty Dog!
5828) This must be one of the best game i ever played in my life, way better than the first.... I really don’t understand the toxicity of the hater, or maybe they haven’t played this master piece....I hope metacritic create a verification option to only let the people actually play the game can rate this.
5829) No need to be rate just story.Yes kinda annoying but everything else is so perfect.That game is closed an era (PS4).My certain rate is 8/10 but so many people rate 0 or 1 for no reason no respect than I'm rate 10.Maybe story will be tell us something but i dont want to play half/half Ellie and Abby.I wish to play with %75 of story Ellie.
5830) The story is great and as always, presented in a perfect way. Yes, the controversial scenes will come a bit much for some. I've just ignored them. Minding that i was hooked from the very beginning and immersed myself again in this universe.
5831) If you love story driven video games with an amazing gameplay to boot then You are in for a treat. Be careful though. This treat ain't sweet. This game's story will drain you mentally to the point you will probably be lying on the floor in a fetal position, crying, with ps4 controller still in hand and wayfaring stranger cover playing in the background. So prepare a lot of tissues - you're gonna need them. Or better yet: get a mop.,But in all seriousness. I've enjoyed many triple A games over the years and many were able to bring tears of both happiness and sadness to my eyes. TLOUPII however, is a different beast. It doesn't pull any punches and literally makes you followthrough on few of those by yourself. And not all of them are as easy as pressing square. Every hit makes you feel... emotions and a lot of doubt. If this isn't the definition of art then I don't know what is.,This is easily THE GAME of my life. Nothing even comes close.,On the other hand, if you're into games for the graphics, brutal combat and environmental storytelling... this game is also for you. Just watch some cool combat clips on youtube or digital foundry's analysis if you find it hard to believe.,Whatever people think of the story, the gameplay and the world presented are worth 10/10 by themselves.
5832) First of all, I don't get how many reviewers on this site claims that the game was predictable and boring. Really ? How was it predictable. I feel like everything in this game was one big bag of unpredictable events. Secondly, I also don't understand how so many people are mad just because they didn't get the story they hoped for.,Yes, there are parts of this story you wont like. Yes there are parts of this story that you will like. Yes there are parts that could have been done differently. But this is ultimately the story being told. When a story follows a traditional path, it becomes predictable, and even praised by all because it gave them the outcome they hoped for. I respect Naughty Dog for taking a different path.,Also, I think they did an excellent job to show you both parts of the story, both from the protagonist and the antagonist's perspective. I think that gives the game and storyline much more depth.,I get it, many people are disappointed in Joel dying so early in the game. And as sad as that was, it opened up the game to a much broader story with way more motivation to move towards the end goal.,I think the ending could have been done better, I think the ending was a bit dull, but overall the game was never once boring or predictable. There was a lot to discover, very unique situations you find yourself in, believable character's with interesting backstories and I think they did a great job putting it all together.,I feel like everyone complaining was just speedrunning through the game and did not appreciate the dialogue or scenes presented to the player.,The game gives players a unique experience and interesting story to play through. The characters have interesting back stories and is revealed as you play the game. The game also looks great and feels immersive. This is a single player experience which is best enjoyed with a pair of headphones.
5833) This is a real masterpiece...,one of the best storytelling in the industry...,Im so proud to played this game
5834) 10/10 would play again! I haven’t finished the story yet but I can honestly say I’m extremely impressed. Don’t listen to all the haters. They are literally just upset because the story didn’t go how they wanted it to. Well guess what, you’re not the artist and that’s how they wanted it to be. Giving this game a terrible score because you hate the story is so petty. The graphics are amazing, the gameplay is smooth. The interactions are amazing. There’s loads of extra stuff to look around for. This game beat out the first one and I will never change my mind on that. Honestly if you’re just mad because the artists work wasn’t what you wanted then make your own game. I’d LOVE to see you do better. LOVE LOVE LOVE THIS GAME would recommend 1010
5835) An emotional roller coaster.,I love when creators take ideas in different directions even if it involves great risk. I truly believe that it worked here. Instead of going a traditional route and making Joel and Ellie go out as heroes it puts a twist on everything. At the end of it all it makes you question if it was all worth it and leaves a lasting impression that some may find unsatisfying, but to me was well worth it.,Other than the story, gameplay and sound is fantastic as expected.
5836) I will not write about how amazing this game is (professional critics had already have enough details about it), instead I would like to said that something should be done with current rating system. May be it should be simplified just to "Like it" / "Don't like it" binary system, because de facto it works that way.,1) Almost nobody tries to separate one factors from others (OK, you don't like plot, but you shouldn't immediately put zero for entire game for this: there are a lot of other factors and, for example, you would certainly look like a total dumb if you put "zero" for a graphic or open world detalization in AAA project like "The last of us".,2) Nobody (and even professional critics sometimes) in modern time doesn't really understand and use rating as it should be: comparison of currently observed game vs all other games. How it is possible to rate a triple A project below some crappy product of unknown game designers?,,So, in overall, my idea suggests, that either rating services should use simplified binary ratings, either they should ban everyone, whose ratings are totally busted.
5837) Please read the whole thing before you come to any conclusions. This is a true, real review, no bs. People want a good story with Joel and Ellie and for it to be justified. I get it, but the problem is that people forget one major important detail about a story: Stories aren't there to serve the characters. The characters are there to serve the story. This means the story is what needs to be in focus, and not about what happens to the characters. Stop being blind by the fact of how and why Joel died. The whole point of this game is to bring real life scenarios in an apocalyptic world. Truly, **** always hits the fan in an apocalypse and choices have consequences. Its been 20+ years since the 1st opening after Sarah, so people now know how to survive and everyone has someone whether its family or new friends In Part 2, Joel killed the Surgeon, and that Surgeon had a daughter, just like Joel. If the 1st game was from Abby's point of view, we would hate what Joel did and he is a smuggler and he did horrible things as well. He kind Marlene who she was initially against the cure for Ellie's sake. Joel is a troubled person, who needs Ellie in his life, because it fills the void of his daughter Sarah. Joel has become hardened, and because of Ellie, he gained a sense of purpose and a reason to keep fighting. That's why we all love Joel. With Abby it is the same thing. She is troubled by the fact her dad died and she doesn't know Joel and Ellie's story like we do in the 1st game. You have to have a birds eye view and see it from Abbys point of view. As im playing this game, you have to admit, noone saw this coming and the leaks meant nothing without context. They faked Joel being alive in the trailer because of the leaks and because they knew people would make a bug deal about it. By hiding it, they gave everyone a fair chance to have an open mind and see the story play out. Abby is an interesting character, and just like Ellie, she could've had a good family and good relations with Owen in the flashback 3 years earlier. She became obsessed with hunting Joel, that Owen forgot abby for a while and did it with Mel. Only after, does he want abby and him to be happy, but now Abby doesn't want to screw over Mel with Owen and regrets everything she did. She does regret the terrible **** she did in that one scene. She kicks the chair and cries. She needs Lev. Abby and Lev are the new Joel and Ellie so to speak, and ofc, we know they shouldn't replace the OG Joel and Ellie. The whole point isnt to like abby, the point is to see someone  elses skde to the story. We were against the fireflies in the 1st, and now we see thier journey and a really interesting character involved. Her dad was the Surgeon and could've changed the world. No wonder she did what she did. What she did was wrong, yes, thats what the story is trying to tell you.  All this pain, and what it does to people is sick, especially in this world. Thats why I love this game and it is a masterpiece hidden in the script. Ill be honest, some things could've been made better and Ellie didn't have to lose 2 fingers. They could've made abby be more obvious that she regrets killing Joel and that she would've been happier if only she let him live and take a beating, instead of us having to look for body language and to really understand her. Other than that, it doesn't change the fact that this game is amazing. It shows how a theme can do so much damage to one group and another. Different point of views. It helps you become a better person to evaluate everything. Abby lost everyone to Ellie and Tommy except Lev, and Ellie lost a lot because of Abby. Atleast Tommy and Dina are still alive. Gone for the moment, but the fact Ellie spares Abbys life, is a powerful moment. She wanted to do the cure, and Joel took that from her. But Ellie knows he did it for her and he needs her. This is a truly depressing game. Ellie in a flashback before killing Abby, saw Joel in the same scene we get to see later in the end. She forgave Joel, thats why she let abby go. If Ellie killed Abby, she would lose what Joel always asked of her. He wanted to protect her and by killing Abby, she would be no better. Abby here, is worse, because she did kill Joel. But the fact Ellie didn't kill Abby back, shows just how pure and strong she really is. Just like in Avatar: The Last Airbender, Katara didn't kill the person who killed her mother. Why? Because she said it herself. "I don't know if im too weak to do it, or too strong to do it." Exactly. Ellie is too strong to do it, because thats why its a masterpiece. She is better than all of us and she just wants to be with Dina and live a normal life in thi cruel world. *** Thats why Dina left. Because Dina didn't want someone so fueled and blinded after abby did spare their lives, because of Lev. ** Abby is becoming a better person, becahse she needed some1 to give her humanity back, just like with Joel and Ellie, and now Ellie needs Dina. Pt 3's coming
5838) Amazing game. Definitely don’t get all the hate but to each their own. Hats off to naughty dog and the fantastic actors Ashley, Troy and Laura.  Story took me places I had no idea it would take me and kept me on edge if my seat all 27 hours it took for me to beat it. In one weekend.  Can’t wait to play it for years to come. Fingers crossed that dlc news isn’t true.
5839) I love the game because it subverts my expectations, me hating the story and characters is the way is supposed to be. Neil Druckmann is a genius for making me feel frustrated, angry and shocked at the game, us hating the game is intended in a, not so subtle way but ends up being  so deep, so sublime, so exceptionally stunning and brave. 10/10
5840) Quite simply the best game I’ve ever played! I was gutted when Joel died but it worked within the story. I found it difficult to start playing as Abby but I loved the character by the end. Keep an open mind and enjoy it for what it is. Don’t listen to the hate, make your own opinions
5841) Ignore the idiot negative reviews. Naughty Dog have created a game that makes you question yourself and fully appreciate your actions have consequences, good or bad. It's a tough, gruelling experience and one that I'm very glad I have experienced.
5842) 10/10. can't wait to do my second playthrough!  So many children won't enjoy it because of manufactured outrage, and it really puts a smile on my face that people that ignorant won't get to enjoy something as amazing as this!  Btw, the elements of the story that people are criticizing all can be or are explained properly and logically, and it's clear that they go in  wanting to hate it.  If I took the time, I could dissect each and every one of their arguments as to why this game is bad and turn it around to prove how childish they actually are.
5843) Absolutely incredible. That’s the only way I can describe this game. It provides a nuanced and thought provoking continuation of the first game’s ending that leaves players pondering the story for days. The sad truth of the story is that it revolves around Joel’s fateful decision to give Ellie a chance at life, but the way he did it basically makes it impossible for Ellie to find happiness. Every action has a consequence, and Joel’s atrocities against the fireflies ends up coming back to bite Ellie. At the end of the day, the game feels like you’re playing in an alternate reality where Joel made the wrong decision. The correct series of events seems to end with Ellie dying on the operating table and saving the world, but not all things have happy endings. To say that the characters didn’t progress well through this story is a flat out lie, because this story thoroughly felt like the place that the characters would naturally end up. Overall, it would be most fitting to package both games as a single story, because both feel so essential to each other. PLAY THIS GAME. It’ll make you feel like crap, but that doesn’t mean it’s a bad game... it means it’s making you think. And that, my friends, is what all media should strive to do. Bravo Naughty Dog. Can’t wait to see what new IP or sequel you bake up next.
5844) An ambitious masterpiece about the cycle of violence. Adds brilliant and layered new characters into the world and is a true worthy sequel to one of the best games ever made.
5845) The first one and this one are easily some of the best 3rd person action games ever made... It is really worth playing.
5846) "Days Gon" is the best game on PS4.,If "Days Gon 2" comes out, it will be the best game on PS5.,Praise! God's "Days Gon 2"
5847) Great game with plenty of unwarranted hate. Never has a game come out with this many gamers missing the mark of the story. It's very to sad to see how many people didn't actually even realize what this story was trying to ultimately convey about the cycle of violence. The game shows the impact one act of violence can have and the domino effect it creates. Not some generic revenge story with a perfect good guy wins resolution. Ashley Johnson and Laura Bailey both deliver excellent performances alongside a great script and story. Gameplay is brutal and crunchy making the player feel every gun shot and every swing of Ellie's knife. Gameplay is mixed up with the player taking on the game from a Abbys perspective showing a different perspective of the story. With the game originally creating a strong hate for Abby, over your time with her you start to understand and sympathize her as a character understanding that her motivations and experiences aren’t that different than Ellie‘s.  This proved to be a great addition showing how non black and white the story is. Makes you rethink everything you thought you knew and makes you question between what's right and what's wrong and more importantly who's in the right and wrong in this situation, Ellie or Abby? That is the question that many gamers will be asking themselves well playing, and it's not a easy one to answer, even though at first it may seem to be. The Last of Us Part 2 is not a game that many will understand or appreciate. It's not a story everyone will enjoy not necessarily because it is bad, but because it requires the player to look into the story critically, being open minded, sometimes putting emotion to the side to better understand the actions of the characters and their motivations, and even trying to put yourself in the shoes of both Abby and Ellie to better grasp their thinking/headspace. Overall The Last of Us Part 2 is a masterfully crafted game with a incredibly in depth and mind provoking story. I beg anyone to try the game for themselves before making up their mind as I'm sure it will be worth your while.
5848) Amazing game. From the story, sound and graphics. GOTY candidate, hands down. Amazing job Naughty Dog. Don't listen to the whiny b itch es jumping on the hate wagon, thinking that they're so cool. If they want a happy and sunshine story well they should just stick to Dora the Explorer games.
5849) #LastOfUsPartII is honestly a masterpiece. I was expecting the absolute worse from the pointless reviews but it went beyond any expectation. Did it break my heart, make me uncomfortable, angry, sad etc? Yes. That’s why it’s an experience. Creators aren’t meant to necessarily please us and give us what we want. Have y’all read Game of Thrones? (And I say read and not seen for a reason, as Martin is known for allowing the story to take its course and not just people please.) Also I’m only referring to the story and character reviews & not the s*xist and h*mophobic pieces of fieces reviews. Nobody cares about you. Throughout the course of this game as a player I have a one track mind along with the protagonist, and I demand justice but even as I do, I HAVE to question myself and say, “yeah but what about...” and for me that’s the game fulfilling its purpose or telling its story.
5850) Whatever you define the game as political statement, entertainment, interactive media or else, I must say in confident that you should experience this game. It's heartbreaking and shows the dark side of human being how we deal with consequences after we make our decisions. How far we would go to gain the satisfaction of payback and was it worth the act? The game hit me hard and I was into it.
5851) First of all I would like to point it out I already finished the game .. and OMG !!!  thats what I could say at the end.,I just stared at myself and searched for my thoughts..  whoa!,The story , the graphics , the setting , the gameplay it’s all about to getting involve to make you think.,This game has built very cleverly both in the development of the characters and in the arc of the story.,Yes it's a cruel world, the dramaturgy is very high but what the developers ultimately bring out of this is something amazing.,The sights, the visuals are going to great details.,I would added 11 score for this game if this can be possible but for now I only can give 10.,Its another masterpice,,,P.S.: And I'm not going to understand the hatters,  0 point ??  seriously ?,Even if you don't like it or didn't expect it.,Seriously people you think that this is a 0 point game ??,(it's a poetic question) .. ofcourse NO, it's NOT !!!!,Just because you don't get it ? What the developers make? Because the developers dared to make a big twist ?,I think this story needs to be understood emotionally to understand what’s going on here so you can interpret the context.
5852) Beautiful graphics, great gameplay. Amazing character development. A journey we will remember for many many years.
5853) The Last of Us crowned the PS3 era and defined the generation. I have no doubt that the Last of Us 2 has just done the same for the PS4. Brutal, beautiful, horrifying and moving, a classic.
5854) Fascinating story, brave actions from ND! The controversy about the gender and racial focus pisses me off. Why the focusing on this instead of the actual character? I don't get it. Nevertheless I love this game like i loved the first part. Gameplay feels so authentic and improved with the right tools. The acoustic is phenomenal. The atmosphere gives you goosebumps. I played it with headphones and now i'm in my second playthrough. I've completed the first part about 7 or 8 times. The part two will be about the same. I hope deeply they bring the part three sooner than the second one.
5855) It's sad and vain, but it doesn't mean it's a bad game.,The compelling story and nice graphics make it more perfect.
5856) I’m just compensating.... that’s a shame, people are cringy af lol... at least play the game
5857) Despite what you might have heard the last of us two is not total trash, it is actually a very well-crafted story paralleling multiple characters in more ways than one with a strong message that Will not only emotionally break you multiple times watching the trials and tribulations of the characters throughout the story, the gameplay is some of the most fun and brutal that I have played long time, while  it does not break the mold of gameplay it improves almost everything in the gameplay from last of us one, you must remember this is not your story this is the characters and you were just along for the ride.
5858) Amazing game. Absolutely amazing. A rollercoaster of emotions. I love how you can see many different perspectives of the events that take place in this game. The gameplay is so fun and also challenging. Part 2 explores many different themes so be prepared for anything.
5859) Honestly, having fought on the front lines of #GamerGate for almost half a decade now, I can say that this game fundamentally changed my perspective on LGBTQ representation in media. I will never forget this incredible journey. My fellow gamers, as surprised as I am to say this, Anita Sarkeesian was right...,,Give this game a chance!
5860) Fantastic gem. This gane needs to be protected. I loved every minute of it. But not everything was peachy. Sometimes it felt too sad.
5861) This is a game I wish I could show people. The barrier for people experiencing art like this is too high for people like my father, who doesn’t play video games. For my friends on different platforms who don’t have analytical talks about symbolism in media. For my girlfriend who is too turned off by the third axis in game controllers. This is just something I had to talk about. Something I had to speak my words for. This game is art. As someone who loved the first game and still loves the first game, this game exceeded expectations highly. Every gameplay system, mechanic, story arch and character is amazing and flushed out fully. Never once did the game fail in trying to make me feel a certain emotion. It made me make hard choices. It questioned the very purpose of the way to play games, and how sometimes as the saying goes “the only way to win, is not play”. Never has a game before this exemplified and embodied what that means, to this extent. It took characters I loved, and made them real. There is no good, no bad, just gray. Every expectation I had going into this game was somehow flipped on its side. What a lovely, gruesome, dark, and scary game. The symbolism alone is heartbreaking. At the forefront of the story there’s a duality between characters and their intertwined journeys that I think is unmatched in revenge tails. The debate over what this game is trying to say will last for years, and I just wish I could take part of it more. I could go on. But I think it’s just best to experience for yourself. Follow the light.
5862) Without spoiler - IT'S A VERY GOOD GAME,  don't let anyone else ruin your experience with review bombing.
5863) Groundbreaking storytelling! Never played a game which left me so thorn behind.
5864) Had to play it twice before I could make up my mind. First time I played it, I hated part of the game and I rushed through it because I was desperate to get it over with.,I realized I made a mistake and missed out for speed running it.,After replaying it, appreciated it so much more.
5865) Overall I loved the game. A lot of people are showing hate to this game simply because they feel way too attached to characters from the first game. Especially considering that the game is set in a post apocalyptic world where people die at any moment in the most unexpected ways. It’s because of these angering yet realistic and haunting moments that make this game beautiful. People who couldn’t see this are stuck in fairy tales where main characters dance around a lily field
5866) I think I need therapy after finishing this game! Absolutely stunning and thoroughly enjoyed it from start to finish!
5867) This game is simply brilliant.  For all the passage, I experienced so many different emotions that I did not experience for passing all the games.  At the very beginning, I firmly decided: I will not forgive.  But throughout the game I changed my mind many times, cried and screamed.  A great work, maybe the game is not so interactive, but the plot is its strongest side.
5868) I know there's many user dislikes for this game, and I'll tell you why.,,YOU CANNOT RATE THIS GAME IF YOU HAVE NOT FINISHED IT YET!,,I'm not surprised that some people did't complete this game but again you have to play the whole thing in order for you to understand the meaning of this game.,,From my perspective - Everything comes to an end either you like it or not, it's how the world works. i advice to whomever reading this comment to experience and enjoy the game of its entirety.,,PS. The graphics and sounds in this game is beyond insanity.
5869) Excellent graphics, storyline, gameplay and twists. I only wish ir was longer, and they added boss battles.
5870) This game is beautiful and anyone who could possibly rate it lower than a 7 needs therapy
5871) This game undoubtedly came into my hands and I had all the expectations set and then they were not in vain, I leave with a taste in my mouth that no other game had ever left me, it is already my favorite game and I dare say that for  My taste is catapulted above its predecessor, I do not intend to try to feel like a critic like all the internet trolls who say that history is rubbish but if I share that this game caused me different feelings, even those found, from the fact of the  human nature to seek justice (revenge) in the face of a traumatizing fact that is lived, up to the compassion, forgiveness and repentance generated by the fact of being able to take revenge by your own hand and not being able to do it because your conscience tells you that it is not the right thing. I think that's what the story is about or at least that transmitted to me, I am happy and because you did not ask here is my brief opinion of this that more than a game is a great experience.
5872) Its a brilliant game. Please make part 3! If People make 2 rating that means they did not understand the game. Please give naughty dog a goal to make part 3!
5873) Amazing Graphics, Excellent Gameplay. The cinematography is Stunning. And the ending is worthy  in the style of a Paul Thomas Anderson movie.
5874) If you hate this game you are scared of strong women. This game is great, gameplay feels like the first  game in a good way. The story has been very intriguing, sorry all these incels miss their boi Joel but WTF do you expect to happen when you kill entire factions of people.,,If you don't like this game you need to look in the mirror and figure out why you hate women so much. Gay people exist, gay people deserve to represented.,,NoH8.
5875) This is cool game, **** you haters ( I’m not gay),I like this game. I’m not from America.
5876) The Last of Us Part 2 is definitely not a game for everyone. The gameplay has vastly improved since the first game while retaining the formula that made the first game successful. The graphics are gorgeous, it feels less clunky, but by adding bigger environments that can sometimes appear to be a semi-open world, it can become more tedious for the average casual gamer. Although you definitely don’t have to spend the majority of the time looting, if that’s is how you want to play, it’s good having the option, and the rewards for playing like a completionist, which are very good this time around. The violence is tough to watch and to experience, but that is absolutely the point. At several times, I had to stop playing the game and take a pause several times because it is pretty tiring and deals with a lot of heavy themes.,,The story is by far the most controversial aspect of this game. People have grown to love and respect these characters, and while I get why a lot of people don’t like this game, it is Naughty Dog’s game and these are their characters. Everyone involved in the making of this game knows the characters, and their motivations for doing what they do, a lot better than the average player and I’m completely convinced they didn’t betray the characters in any way. Joel was a very distrustful character who had done a lot of bad things until he met Ellie, who ended up changing the way Joel is, making him more compassionate. Living in Jackson has softened both Ellie and Joel, they have become more trustful and are bringing people to Jackson all the time. The moment when Joel dies you can see by the expression in his face he was thinking “I let myself trust these people and this is what I get”.,People seem to not be understanding that they don’t have ownership of these characters, who are as imperfect and ever-changing as any person in the real world. It felt horrible when Joel died, it felt horrible when you had to play as Abby after seeing what she had done, it felt awful when you had to beat the living **** out of Ellie. I hated doing those things, but that doesn’t mean that the game is bad. When watching this kind of “mature” media, you have to accept that bad things can happen, and in a post-apocalyptic world, they probably WILL happen. These events help the characters grow and develop in ways we hadn’t seen before. If people wanted the characters to stay as they were, they probably should just stick to playing Part 1.,,This game managed to make me feel different about a person I absolutely abhorred, by showing you their side of the story, and most importantly, their motivations. Both Ellie and Abby do horrible things in the memory of someone they loved. Mid-way though the game, Abby starts to become a Joel-type character. A person who has been horribly hurt who starts doing bad things until she finds a better purpose in helping other people who need it (In Abby’s case it was Lev, and in Joel’s case it was Ellie). People are saying the ending is anticlimactic, but I think it actually shows the most character development I’ve ever seen in a game. It helped destroy the cycle of violence and revenge that had been taking place. The only way Ellie was able to do this, was by forgiving Abby, otherwise, the cycle of revenge and violence would have just continued when Lev recovered and realized what Ellie had done to Abby, but when Ellie came to the realization that this was Joel’s story all over again, only this time it was another person, she decided to stop, giving the player a sense of closure and realization. I felt like I got a life lesson out of this game. By keeping an open mind and not closing yourself to what you think SHOULD happen, and just experiencing what DID happen you can experience a masterpiece in storytelling that can affect your life in a positive way. This is one of my favorite games, I didn’t enjoy the game, but I still believe it is one of the greatest pieces of media I have ever seen and played and I, personally, would recommend this game to anyone who wants to experience an amazing story with twists at every turn. It contains a lot of symbolisms and touching moments, if your are open to them. You won’t feel great playing this game, but you can appreciate the lessons it leaves you with and the care that was put into making such a complicated and engaging story. I will definitely remember this game for years to come and don’t regret playing it in any way. Thank you Naughty Dog for taking a risk and making what felt organic, instead of what people wanted to happen.
5877) if you enjoyed the first, the second one will blow your mind in different levels. It perfects its mechanics, its visual, its music, its cinematic and it takes the storytelling to whole new level, it make you experience how  far dark side of the human beings can reach. Just stop reading reviews and just live the experience by yourself.
5878) I absolutely loved the original game, and had been looking forward to this game for a number of years, it exceeded my expectations in every way.,,Visually, the game is stunning. The mechanics are great and simple, and don't disrupt the flow of the gameplay, which is great considering the cinematic nature of the game.,,The story was well written and well crafted. It was uncomfortable at times, and obviously, there was some bold decisions that I wish were different. But on the whole, it all flowed well, made sense, and didn't insult my intelligence.,,This is without a doubt, one of the absolute best games I have ever played, and worthy of any awards it can receive. It's a true masterpiece, and one I will enjoy playing through again.
5879) Amazing story and engrossing gameplay. It manages to seem both cinematic and reminiscent of a great novel.
5880) Greatest game EVER! .. cant stop thinking about how charming this game is .. the level design is beyond description .. characters, emotions, plot, fighting mechanics etc .. everything is perfect ! .. this game BY FAR is the game of the generation ..
5881) This is amazing,from story, to sound to the minor AI habits of the NPC's. Highly recommend playing with earphones for the best experience. Ignore all others discounting this because of" Shock value" or "being woke" if you played the first game it starts with your daughter dying and Ellie accepting being Gay in a **** up apocalyptic world. Nothing in that aspect has changed so it acknowledges the first game in that aspect. If your afraid of gay characters this is not the game for you and you should have bigger problems with people being people. Love the game for the relatable story in those circumstances and have a great time. 10/10
5882) No other games can hit those emotions and have you thinking about it for days after finishing like The Last of Us 1 and 2 can. I wish that maybe some of story was different but I can accept it for what it is and it doesn't ruin the excellent game that it is. Those that have an overwhelming idealization of what the story should be vs what it is, and have reserves about the game going in are just clouding themselves from enjoying something great.
5883) A masterpiece! Shame that most of the ratings are from people that didn't play the game and gave it a rating based on the spoiler leak
5884) So many 0-1/10. It is offending and anyone giving this title 0 or 1 is an idiot unable to handle the emotions as a grown up.. feel bad for the creators who put so much effort in this game. Maybe it does not deserve 10/10 as I rated it. But haven't enjoyed any game like this since God of War. Not even RDR with it's obsolete game mechanics and ok story.
5885) The best game I ever played and maybe that I will never play again. Maybe 10 is too little for this game
5886) Now this a game. Gave me all the feels. I AM NOT THE HERO IN THIS GAME. A game about violence has no hero. Amazing story. Heres hoping for a cure (looking at u ps5) !!CHEERS!!
5887) Love the game great story and graphics some parts of the story were saddening but i felt the emotion that i think the developers intended and may have relied on. No story is good without plot twists and things that make you feel angry, sad, happy etc.
5888) One of the best games that naughty dog ever made and the new gameplay mechanics are soo great!!!
5889) WHY DO ANYBODY HATES THIS GAME???,Do you buy this game to rate it????,Is this game worth 4.3 points? NO!
5890) Gameplay 10, graphics 10, animations 10, story 10.,A sad and overwhelming story, very brave that over time will be more and more appreciated
5891) Some thoughts for those who thought Abby "ruined the game". Hear me out, because I get you, but have a different opinion. I would write a whole review, but it feels more important to just focus on what a lot of people thought the game got wrong, which I feel it got incredibly right. – You clearly do speak fluent sarcasm (rude dialect), it's obvious. Jokes aside, I think Abby was a hard character to understand for those who don't feel the love in her voice when **** her dad, Owen, and Manny. Ellie can be friendly, Abby will always come off as a little closed off because of her pain. – Her actions were justified. Joel **** humanity, set it back 100 years at least. I would have wanted to do the same if I had no knowledge or connection to Ellie and Joel's relationship – We both hate her. But at least try to understand her choices. – Playing as her made my skin crawl in the best kind of way. The game was uncomfortable, because when you switch you see her through Ellie's eyes at the peak of loss and hopelessness. – Her and Ellie are mirrors; Ellie is immune, small, stealthy, better at killing infected, and made strong by her companions (at first). Abby is large, intimidating, aggressive, trained to kill people, and made stronger through loss (her father, relationship with Owen, her cause in the Fireflies). – Only at the end do both character arcs reverse, and they come to a point of mutual understanding, growth, and forgiveness. Abby relies on Lev and forgives herself, Ellie forgives Joel and Abby. – Ellie killed Dina's dream and wrecked her own mind because of revenge. Abby got her friends killed for the same reason. – I didn't want Joel to die, but I believe the alternative would have been the same dynamic as the last game (which makes no sense to me given Ellie's growth and awareness of Joel's betrayal) or a sad sap story of Ellie causing tragedy because she can't forgive Joel, who is still alive, and Joel failing to help Ellie because he's blinded by love. What we got was a great piece on cyclical revenge, and a bleak picture of humanity's darkness. – Jesse was fleshed out during the story, but I'm hoping we get a Jesse & Joel DLC. Lots of DLC! ALL THE DLC. Tommy going to the Big Sur firefly camp looking for Abby would be good too. Now what I think it could have done better: – The Rattlers part felt rushed; I would have liked to see Ellie travel to Santa Barbara, even if alone. Preferably, having Dina (leaving baby with Jesse's parents) or Tommy trail her there, and save her from the near-death side injury at the end, like how she healed Joel in game 1. – Ellie should have killed Abby and then nearly die (with an ambiguous ending), or Abby kill Ellie and Dina kill Abby and Lev both (definitive ending). – Plot variations for multiple playthroughs could have been a nice touch, but I understand it's hard to write a good story in that format. Overall, this is a **** masterpiece in my humble and clueless opinion!
5892) I have played the game and replayed it a second timer and I really am enjoying everything about it and I don’t understand the hate revolving around this game. The story makes you feel what the writers were aiming for and just because Joel dies in the beginning doesn’t mean the game deserves such a bad rating. People say the way Joel does is dry and he acts stupid but there is a reason for that. Joel is in the comfort of Jackson and there isn’t much danger going on there for years already therefore maybe he has gotten a bit less tough. Back then he had to always be aware of the dangers because he was always under the threat of death and for years that has stopped for him in Jackson. And his death was dry and so are other deaths because sometimes in real life that’s what happens. People get shot or killed almost instantly and out of nowhere all the time and it’s almost never a slow death where they get to say something to their loved ones or whatever you guys were hoping for. So stop hating on the game if you have not played it and just saw leaks or someone else hating it. Have your own opinion and experience this masterpiece yourself.
5893) The Last of Us part II is the best game I’ve ever played. Not only the tecnical aspects of the game are incredible (graphics, playability, etc) but the experience and story are amazing. Before this game, I have never been so imersed in a game universe to the point that I think about it all day long. It is definitely not for every one: if you are close minded and expect a game that gives you a hero and a villain, don’t even waste your time. The Last of Us part II teaches you that everyone has a good and a bad side. Unlike most reviews that I read, I don’t hate Abby. I actually like her, and that doesn’t change the fact that I loved Joel and that I love Ellie. The two girls live in an environment that encourages them to be violent and seek vengeance, and that is all that they know. Joel screwed up when he killed the surgeon, and even though killing is never ok, Abby had her reasons for wanting Joel dead. Unliked Ellie who seeked vengeance at all costs and killed EVERYONE, Abby not only once but twice let Ellie go, since she only wanted Joel’s life. They both were very violent and in the end kinda got what they caused to others. Abby lost every single friend, got caught by that gang and almost died, and in the end even lost her dignity when Ellie almost killed her. On the same way, Ellie had the chance to put her family first and live peacefully, but she didn’t and again screwed up because Dina herself said she wouldn’t put up with it anymore. I really believe that they are both very alike, and both have a really bright side (abby saving the kids; ellie with her family) and a dark side, that unfortunately caused the death of Joel, Jesse, Owen, Mel and Nora (I hate them both but you get the point), and others. Lastly, I would like to congratulate the people that made this game, the whole story was perfect (even though I almost **** my pants fighting those zombies). It was a very realistic story and that is why it’s so sad and divides people. Thanks for reading!
5894) Probably one of the best games I have played so far, both gameplay and story wise. The latter goes especially if you have no predefined expectations you want the game to meet which seems to be the case from most people, hence their disappointment,From a narratological point of view, the story is well put and got me on an emotional rollercoaster: from hate to fear, from joy to sadness... I had goosebumps and sometimes teary eyes because I was emotionally overloaded.,,Now, don't get me wrong: I can see why the some players may be disappointed about the story (although barely any of them provide objective reasons). However, I thought it was revolutionising to some extent. In no game have I ever been so incredibly immersed and empathetic for both the prototypical 'good' and 'bad' side. In one of the last scenes, I actually heard myself saying "She didn't deserve that.* and for a moment, I was left with pure disgust towards the main character the overarching discourse of such games wants me to feel sympathetic towards. They way they got me invested emotionally was just unbelievably well done.
5895) When you see that score you know why people vote trump. It's easier to be stupid. See yaa
5896) You will not stop this game. It is already the best selling ps4 exclusive game of all time. Just amazing game give it a chance.
5897) (Spoilers are relatively light in this review) - Right from the start you will be amazed by the beauty of the landscape and scenery. The level design is second to none. Once you start playing you will also notice the game mechanics are also immensely better than from The Last of Us (Part I). The fluidity in battle was elegant, and the fight are real, raw, and gory. Stealth capabilities are at an all time high with more options than ever. The HUD is essentially invisible allowing you to see the entire screen the entire game with no distractions and emphasizes the immersion experience. I also recommend playing with a headset because the sound was incredible as well! I believe that everyone that played this game can agree to the things listed above.,,Now here comes the controversial part of the game... which is the story. The first game was about a tragic event that happened to Joel. In turn he shut his emotions down and locked them away. He was given a job to deliver Ellie to a rebel militia group called "The Fireflies" which was across the United States. During this journey you get to know Joel and Ellie much more as Joel slowly starts opening up to Ellie and starts seeing her as a daughter figure. By the end of the game he cares about Ellie so much he fights the militia group to get her back from them. One big take away from this game was a story of love and family which touched the heart of everyone who played it. Creating a masterpiece to never be forgotten.,,The Last of Us Part II turns out to be a much darker story. One of the first themes in the beginning of the game was that there are two or more sides to every story. The abundant killings in the first game may have no meant anything to us, but to a character in this one it changed their life forever and they want vengeance/revenge. This game touches on so many topics like hatred, revenge, cheating, lying, betrayal, LGBTQ+, Trauma/PTSD, Phobia's and as said before multiple sides to every story. Lets be clear about the LGBTQ+ topics. At no point does this seems forced, pushed in your face, or changes anything about the game as your playing. You wont even notice so avoid reviews that make it seem as though this leads the story. On the other side of the previous topics there are so many beautiful moments where you see heartwarming and loving experiences that make you smile, laugh, and maybe even shed a tear out of joy. In the beginning I will admit i was a confused as to why they went the route that they did. But as you progress further things become more clearer, things connect, and you see every actions has an equal and opposite reaction that can spiral into a never ending cycle of hate and torture. One thing i firmly believe is that no one can tell you what the story will mean to you and how you will relate to it and the morals behind it. It is all for you to decide for yourself. From my opinion the story was excellent and far better than most games you would play today.,,Even though i praise almost everything about this game highly I personally felt like the player to character connection was lacking for many new and unestablished characters in this game. Every player already had a connections to Joel and Ellie from The Last of Us Part 1, but aside from that it was hard to care about anyone else too much.,,Lastly, I loved this game enough I went back to unlock the Platinum Trophy. As I was replaying I realized the way they wrote this story made it a replay game. With the information you know after completing the story originally you get to see the same story but viewed differently. Believe it or not it made the game even better. I found this to be incredibly well done.,,The talent at Naughty Dog is phenomenal. Even though not everything was "Perfect" I would highly recommend this game to anyone. I think once the smoke settles people will see this game was beyond its time.,,I undoubtedly rate this game a 10/10
5898) Incredible game and story. Such an excellent follow up to the first game. 10/10
5899) Incredible game tackling deep themes of what makes us human, coupled with beautiful and shocking imagery and gameplay. A must play for anyone wishing to see what this medium can accomplish.
5900) I have played the first game.,The story of the 2nd part is full of things that you don't want to see. Just because you feel with Joel And Ellie more than with other characters.,,But it's really interesting how the feeling changes as you progress through a story.,,This game Is almost perfect in technical aspects. And it's story Is not so silly and straightforward as in 1st part. It's not comfortable and this is why it's So controversial.
5901) Loved the first game immensely and I haven't played a game in a long time that was so ambitious with it's narrative, so what if it made me uncomfortable in parts, that's good and it's doing what was intended. I liked that it wasn't trying to be the first game and was attempting to be its own thing.  Joel's death wasn't dignified but why does it have to be? Death rarely is and it felt more believable this way. Game of Thrones tore my heart out several times with character deaths and I still loved it.,,I agree that the story was a little clunky in parts and yes there were a few plot holes and they could have pushed Abby's character further in getting me to invest more emotionally in her but I was still drawn to her side more as Ellie's. Ellie just seemed dumb to continue but she's stunted emotionally and it makes sense for her flawed character to keep making the same mistakes/decisions. Also good to see female leads that aren't over sexualised or playing the 'damsel in distress'.,,This game was daring and progressive in a world that asks for that but rarely appreciates it when it gets it.
5902) Survivor difficulty,35 hours,------------------------------,its just f*cking technological masterpiece.,Story is a much complexity than first game. Its not about *Lets Go From A to B*,This story is hurt you, just like bad things on real life. We never ready to bad things.,If u like gameplay on first game, u absolutley can be sure, about this game. Its next lvl stealth-action game.,Thank's  Naughty-Dog team for this awesome game.
5903) Just finished it, and I don't even know what to say. But Brovo Naughty Dog, BROVO.
5904) Boohoo they killed off your favorite characters? :( Oh no I completely forgot that everything in a post apocalyptic world is actually perfect and sweet and just the way you want it to be.,I can't believe people are crying because the story didn't go the way they wanted it to so they're review  bombing this mustapeece.
5905) Great game. If you aren’t a bigot or a moron like most of the ‘users’ rating on this website, you will 100% enjoy this game.
5906) When the credits rolled on The Last of Us Part 2 I was still buzzing from the excitement of the final few hours. My loyalty shifted between characters. I grew to love who I hated and dislike who I loved. I laughed, I teared up. I felt anger and elation. It’s the new high water mark for video game characters and I can’t wait for everyone to see just how special it is. As soon as it ended, I booted up New Game Plus and I’m experiencing it again with my eyes open, the context of the finished story imprinting new meaning into those early scenes and characters. I’m not swiping in the dark anymore.
5907) The game itself has its flaws and moments where i’m like what just happened, but it’s a masterpiece of a game and naughty dog showed just that. It is a dark story with moments we don’t like the story shows, but it is still a great piece of work what naughty dog shows us.
5908) An awesome game. If you loved the first one you will love this one 10/10 a must buy.
5909) I'll be blunt. If you are hating on this game without playing it, you are either (a) a fool or (b) a bigot. There's no help for bigots (and the 'politics' in this game are utterly minor and beside the point), but if you don't want to be a fool:,,You need to realize you can't judge this story by reading leaked spoilers or watching it on Youtube. You can't. You are getting the most superficial understanding of what happens in this game. It's an interactive experience. The whole *point* is you are going to play as these characters. And as you do, you develop a much richer understanding of who they are, their motivations, what happens to them and what you do as them. You feel things that, in my opinion, no other game has ever succeeded in making people feel. It's an astonishing accomplishment and a masterpiece of the gaming medium.  It also happens to be fun as hell.,,If you skip it, you are just missing out on something incredible. For sad, stupid reasons most likely.,,I love all the characters - Joel, Ellie and...yes...even Abby. That's the magic of this game.
5910) Absolutely loved every minute of this game. It plays good and looks good.,The story line made me happy, sad and angry. This is not a game that is there to make you feel comfy, it is horror.,Best game of 2020 (for me).,I would say to anyone give it a go.,If anyone is offended by the content in this game, remember it is not there to make you feel good.
5911) The game is beautiful! TLOU on steroids! More of the great srory. More of fights with infected. More of exploring... Man I love this game! GOTY!!!
5912) One the best games all time, excelent storyline, graphics, sound, gameplay. Ps4 have one game incrible,
5913) I loved the game. Its fantastic story telling & one of the most amazing story. Neil druckman dies the remarkable job here. Graphics is next gen, even haters can't deny that. Hats off to all the crew once again. A must have game in ps4 kitty. Not a one timer, atleast 3 or more.
5914) This is so bad and cruel game and this makes it exelent. Game shows how post-apocalyptic world truly is and what revenge can do without any sugarcoating. Loved how they managed pull me in so deep into the game, every kill makes you feel better until you feel sorry. Got me there Naughtydog, good job.
5915) Absolutely fantastic game. It's sad and disturbing to see this game getting so much hate for having certain messages. Claiming the game went "political" when really this game just contains a narrative that can't be found in many games. The story is breathtaking, every character has their own unique personality, and the character development is nearly perfect. I've seen many reviews of people saying that Neil Druckmann didn't stay true to the characters. This is wildly inaccurate.,,Trauma has shaped certain decisions of characters in the game and the writers make it feel very realistic. This Naughty Dog project was very ambitious and they took a risk on telling the story that they did. This is not a game that contains the same kind of story as the first one. We get the characters that we love but we play a brand new story. Yes, we lose some characters that we love, some sooner than most fans would have wanted. However, this is a plot based on revenge. How is the game supposed to start without a motive for this kind of plot?,,The game stays true to the characters, the game has brilliant story telling that will keep you at the end of your seat and ensure that your controller is covered in sweat. The ending is controversial, that much is true. I was upset at first but after thinking of the characters involved and how their choices were influenced, the ending is justified.,,Play this game if you love plots and characters that drive the story of this world forward. Play this game if you want to experience something that will grip you and touch your emotions. Don't play this game if you want a copy and paste of the first game, you'll be very disappointed. I apologize for the long review, I tried to cut it down as short as possible pertaining to all that I had to say.
5916) A lot of things like the graphics, animations, environments, and voice actors are undeniably top-notch. Gameplay core is the same but has been much improved. Of particular note is the different ways you can approach every single scenario, from stealth to the different weapons, or even melee (which is actually extremely fun).,,Now to get to the part that is apparently polarizing: the story. I personally find it a brave effort that is often profound. It's very visceral and made me empathize with characters in a way that I never thought they could do. Having said that, it is certainly not for everybody. It is full of pain, grief, and violence, and that can get exhausting for some. For those that are worried about the polarity in opinion, I think it is probably because the people that are upset wanted a continuation of the same story elements they saw in the first game, but were angry and confused when the game decided to take things in a new direction and explore different themes. My advice would be to relax and let the game tell you the story it wants to tell.,,My 10/10 score for the game is not to say that the game is perfect. No game is perfect. There are certainly problems with the pacing, and the skill trees and upgrades have not evolved enough, but these issues were never enough to detract from my experience with the game.
5917) Naughty Dog made a masterpiece that is not for everyone. We are living in a world full of homophobia and right-wing extremists that only wants the typical American hero. But Naughty Dog delivers us a game experience more realistic and raw in every way possible. It is cruel, it is cold and it is brutal. Ignore the bad critics if you are looking for the game of the generation. If you are looking for something that will support some hate ideology (anti-gay, anti-women, etc) you can forget about this game, Naughty Dog didn't make this for you. About the gameplay: Naughty Dog introduced us to some new abilities and we can play more characters than its predecessor. But what makes this game perfect is also the atmosphere. You can feel and become Ellie. Also, this game makes you think about the story, about all the decisions and you realize no one is perfect in real life, why would everyone be perfect in video games?,,Thank you Naughty Dog for this amazing experience. I will never forget this game.
5918) Actual score is around a 9.5 or 9.7.  game is fantastic. It is sad that morons are reviewing the game pretending it is anything less than great because it has a lesbian and a bi-sexual character in it.  It DOES NOT have any Trans characters so the Transphobic people saying it does are just scared that Trump will cut their genitals off and convert them into his trans Christian Army of Confederate flag loving inbred incels.  Obviously, Trump is an SJW, because, of course.  Serious though Being afraid of LGBTQ+ characters in a video game rated M for mature ( as if most gamers are Mature lmao ) is pathetic and those people review bombing this should go extinct.
5919) Incredible story and amazing gameplay. Naughty Dog create decent sequel. Must to play if you have PS4
5920) naughty dog, keep surprising us with your games.,Joel’s death was a strong scene in the game, and it was supposed to be a tad bit different. Druckmann spoke of this while discussing the scenes that they altered or scrapped from the game.,“In the first edit of that scene, you felt nothing. Ellie’s being held down and Joel’s looking at her and we had this idea of like, “Oh man Joel’s brain is so f***ed up at that moment that the only word that’s coming out of his mouth is his daughter’s name, ‘Sarah.’” It felt powerful, but then Troy [Baker] — to his credit — was like, “I don’t think he should say anything.”
5921) Probably the best game I've played. The story was different to any other and gave different perspectives that showed the similarities between the character you were supposed to love and the character you were supposed to hate.
5922) Awesome game, dont let a bunch of haters who havent played turn you away. Graphic 10,Gameplay 10,Story 9
5923) All the hate and negative reviews are just a testimony as to how brilliant the first game was and how beloved Joel and Ellie were. TLOU has already demonstrated us the studio's ability to throw curve balls and poke the Amygdala but part 2 proves that they can also put you on your wit’s end by forcing you to make impossible decisions and then leaving you perplexed making you question yourself if it was morally correct. I sincerely believe naughty dog really outdid themselves and the whole industry with this part by crafting something that captures the true marrow of what we as humans are and can be. I think that the developers have transcended the idea of what a game should be and can be. They have democratized the characters and made them more humane, susceptible to everything a real-life person is. As for the characters, they are as real and raw now as they can be.  Instead of the usual hero- villain roles the boundaries are blurred and marred with some much blood and gore that the roles become interchangeable and almost indistinguishable. The inspiration from GTA5 and Until Dawn is evident but the stories intertwingling with such complexity that both Abbey and Ellie become the opposite sides of the same coin.,I believe it is the kind of game that cannot be enjoyed with a preoccupied mind and a personal bias, with the expectations of a positive, cheerful and uplifting story like the last game. TLOU was the story of Joel exploring the themes of love, compassion and hope when everything around was miserable and bleak, TLOU2 is the opposite, Ellie exploring the feelings of revenge, hatred and above else guilt, even when everything around is in order, when everyone around is as loving as they can be. It is about coming to terms with everything that they had either done or witnessed. Above all it is a mature coming of age story in a post-apocalyptic world. It is the kind of game that will act as a milestone for all future games in terms of emotional depth and driving themes. It is the epitome of how deep into the void video games can descend. I feel betrayed not by the game but by the so-called loyal fans of the series. Life is not always fair and not everyone gets what they desire or deserve. The decision to depict that distress must have been hard for the studio itself but they did it anyways because they felt that it was the right thing to do and that is something not many people out there are prepared to make.,I sincerely believe most of the criticism is just unjust and is there because the game was spoiled for much of the fanbase. As for the complaints regarding all the agenda pushing, I believe it’s all a matter of double standards, on one side people laude unreleased games like Cyberpunk for its inclusivity but they harshly criticize TLOU2 for the same. And it was not as if it was done in a Rowling way, everyone who had played Left Behind already knew what was in store.,Making a generic storyline, with a happily lived ever after ending would have been more commercially successful and would have been in straighter alignment with the wider expectations. We all know it would have been a great commercial success and would have easily found its way into many of the year’s top games lists, but that would have been a commercial victory not an artistic one. I sincerely thank God that naughty dog decided otherwise. True artists please themselves not others and TLOU2 is artistic vision realized impeccably.
5924) A truly MASTERPIECE. I played the original one 6 years ago which I think it was great. And this one, it is way beyond great. I understand so many people are mad about how they treated Joel however this is part of the story, I accept it and let the game finish the storytelling. I think it is unfair to judge a game just because of its opening. The best part of the story I think is Abby's story. It was so great and her relationship with Lev is so touching. It makes the game duo heroine and tells the story in a creative way: two girls, different story but related, opposite side at three same days. Many criticize that at the ending Ellie should kill Abby but in my own opinion, she should let Abby go. Everyone is their own hero in their own story. At the epilogue, when Ellie puts down the guitar, meaning she has grown up and walked out of the shadow of Joel's death.
5925) A game which will change narrative video game storytelling forever. Literally walking in the shoes of a person gives you an empathy for them that could never be achieved in cinema.
5926) Accepting pain or succumbing to it is a personal choice for everyone. No amount of revenge will bring back what was lost and if you don't stop in time you can lose everything.  The first part, I think, was about the meaning of life. About what and who is worth living or dying for. She was on the bright side of life. The second is about how revenge turns into the meaning of life, a manic obsession that destroys and breaks a person. The final of the first one, although it was not clear, left a bright hope. The ending of this part is sad. It leaves a feeling of emptiness. In visual and gameplay terms, this part is great, in the end, you understand why the game is so named
5927) I don’t understand why the game is getting so much hate. It’s a lot of fun and it looks amazing. Not much more I want. I like the story. In the world that the characters live in it makes sense to me as to why the story does what it does. Would highly recommend.
5928) I don't remember being as emotionally exhausted by any other game ever and I liked it. A story this ballsy can't obviously be for everyone but that's what makes this game so special. In my personal opinion TLOU2 is the bravest sequel since MGS2 and I would like to see more games like this. This would have been enough for me to love this game but it is also a technical masterpiece, therefore I can't give it any less then 10/10
5929) Great game!!! Love the story and gameplay. The graphics are awesome too!!!!
5930) If you rated The Last of Us, you owe it to yourself to play The Last of Us 2.,Don’t make your decision based on the wave of disingenuous chatter being pitted against this game. Rather, try it for yourself. At the least, don’t add your voice to the fake clamour around this game without having done so.,The Last of Us 2 is a stunning achievement in the development of video games.
5931) Look, I get why people don´t like this game, but we need to understand that the game is not called "Joel and Ellie´s adventures". The game is called THE LAST OF US. I will not spoil anything from the game in this "review" because the less you know the better. If you´ve been spoiled or looked after the leaks, then I´m sorry, but that does not change the fact that this game is GREAT. The last of us Part II makes you understand that not everything turns out like you´d like to. WHICH IS GREAT. Being unpredictable is really hard these days, but a lot of people missed that oppourtunity because of the leaks. Hours after the game was released people already was rating it WITHOUT EVEN PLAYING THE GAME. Those ratings were from people that didn´t want the game to succeed. This game creates a new path in order that Part III can take place somewhere else (new countries) and with different main characters.
5932) I don’t understand the hate, it was a great game even if Joel died and you had to play as Abby, I feel sorry for the people that don’t like it.
5933) One of the best games I played! Truly amazing! Never played a game that plays with your emotions. Made me feel angry .happy. sad  it's a must play game. Dont watch streaming videos and comment actually play the game for yourself. Well done naughty dog.
5934) This game is a seminal moment in the content that a videogame can explore. The push and pull of choices and consequences lead to one of the most brutal yet humanizing stories I have ever experienced. I beat the game a few days ago and I can't stop thinking about it. Everything, from the graphics to the top notch voice acting, is in service to an intricate and well woven story that, while too dark for some, is worth it for the moments of light. This game has so much to say and, while that may be a turnoff for some, it landed 100% for me. I cannot recommend this game enough. Best game I've played in a decade.
5935) Not for the weak-hearted!  This game is just as beautiful as a Red Dead Redemption 2.  The game is smart.  There are many accessibility options, indicating the company that made it is thoughtful.  The story is like nothing you will ever play in a video game, let alone see in a movie.
5936) Absolutely outstanding game... best game I have ever played in 30 years of gaming.
5937) This is the best made game that I have ever played from the graphics through to the art and animation everything raises the bar for the games industry overall.
5938) Really top tier level och graphics, level design and overall gameplay. The story is brilliant, well-written, dark and told in a way which really keeps you wondering how it's going to end while the suspense builds.  Well written characters and relationships, it's naughty dog what do you expect, but also character development plays a big role all up until the very climatic end.,The game has unexpected moments which will make you hate characters later to sympathize with them, as well as love characters later to doubt their integrity. Real conflicting moments which will have you question who is hero and who is villain. The game is 50% longer than the first game so it's not short. A lot is said between the lines it doesn't hold your hand, emotions and choices that aren't explained and would make the game worse if they were explained. I think this game isn't for everyone, you don't have control over what the characters will do/choose just like in the first game so all you can do is strap in, hope and not expect, which makes it all the more exciting. Once again Naughty Dog has delivered a experience I won't soon forget, a darker and more uncomfortable experience, but a thrilling experience nonetheless.
5939) Great game. Great story. Definitely more to build on if they decide to go for a third instalment in the franchise. The way Joel went out, even though sad, was a respectable ending for the character. Went out fighting like any good hero should. Don’t let the leaks ruin this for you. Some leaks are false as well. Just pick it up, or borrow it and enjoy it this fantastic sequel to one of the best games of all time.
5940) "Don't ever let me see you again",,The Last of Us - Part II is a dark masterpiece. Thank you for this experience Neil Druckmann. Because you're the hero games deserve, but not the one they needs right now. So they're hunting you. Because you can take it. Because you're not their hero. You're a silent guardian, a watchful protector. A Dark Knight.
5941) Absolutely incredible game, hooked from the start. The story kept me wanting to play for more and the wonderfully explorable world really kept you looking for more details.,,I would recommend this game to everybody in a heartbeat. First time in a long while that I've poured so many hours into a game in such a short period. Want to go back through and play it again with my Fiancee watching so I can discuss with someone!,,Blown away by the visuals. Please play this game!,,I can't remember the last time I played a game that hit 10/10 for me, I honestly have nothing bad to say about the game.,,I really think people forget about how the end of the last game made you feel...
5942) Best game I've ever had the pleasure to play. All parts of story extremely necessary and perfect. 10/10
5943) Amazing story, incredible characters, safe trailer, and is way better than the first game.
5944) Absolutely breathtaking. I loved the first one, and the follow up is a masterpiece.
5945) I can't see how you can play through this game and not give it a 10/10. It's spectacular in every facet a video game should be. To start, the graphics are among the best, if not THE best I've ever seen. The hand to hand combat is pretty simple, but is effective and looks great. The death animations for both you and NPCs are devastatingly brutal (and awesome). The gameplay itself is also very simple (hide and shoot), but never gets dull, and at times will have your palms sweating profusely with fear. My roommates pretty much watched me play the entire game, and there were parts where all 5 of us were anxiously screaming while i was running for my life. The narrative is excellent. Sure, some things didn't happen the way I would have wanted them to, but for me that doesn't take away the quality of the story being told. The characters are fleshed out more so than a lot of our favorite movies and TV shows, and their decisions are justified through their past experiences and reactions to said experiences. The game changes the way you look at certain characters, both in good ways and in bad ways. I was in awe at my own emotional development towards them, both gaining and losing trust as the game went on. No other game has done that for me, and I tip my cap to Naughty Dog for such an achievement.,And lastly, the soundtrack is amazing. No surprise there.,I could go on and on, but I feel like a lot of it is just repeating what the other people who enjoyed Part II are saying. I will never understand the hate that this game got, but everyone is entitled to feel how they do.,With that, I say thank you, Naughty Dog. It was truly an experience like no other.
5946) What an emotional roller-coaster. Never have I been in a state of pure panic quite as much as I was playing this. The characters we know and love are expanded on and sometimes surprise us, we are introduced to a wealth of new friends and foes. It really is a masterclass in plot development,. I thought i had come to the end and them the game contulinued for 4 hours more! Definitely my game of the generation, would've been red dead 2 before playing this.
5947) Unbelievable journey in this world! It's not a masterpiece,it's a miracle! I really enjoy this game and the intensive gameplay
5948) Dont know why people rate it bad. This game is sensationally good. If you love part 1 you will love part 2. Worth the buy
5949) Great game! So much emotion! Joels death was heartbreaking at first but the great storytelling made me feel like he deserved it!! Was disappointed when Jesse was killed but understand it had to happen! Amazing game!,Loved every moment!
5950) This game is awesome, if you like the first game you'll probably like this one as well. Thanks to everyone who made it as reality, I really enjoyed it
5951) Ima be honest,Its a good game, i liked it a lot,i don't understand why y'all so cocky.
5952) The game is just amazing. Sure the story is something that has been stirring the community apart, along with reeling in Sony's haters along the way. But this kind of take is something that no other developers or story tellers won't dare to take. So props to Naughty Dog. My only gripe is that the game is pandered to feminism, or more to feminazis. But still the game did deserves 10/10.
5953) its a great game, really has his imperfections but this don’t excluses the fact of Naughty Dog worked so hard to bring us a masterpiece and really is.
5954) All the game reviews from June 19 are one big joke from people who didn't play the game and quite possibly don't even own it. They just read the spoilers and don't tell the whole story.,I finished the game in 38 hours, divided into 6 days.,,TLOU2 has well-written characters that fit perfectly into the built world from the first part.,The story is strong and at times disturbingly believable.,The graphics are again at the highest level of the current console generation.,Acting performances are at the Oscar level.,Gameplay is a solid evolution from the first part.,The combination of everything creates a very engaging atmosphere, which it maintains until the final headlines.,,If you enjoyed the first part, you will definitely enjoy the second part as well.,I highly recommend.
5955) One of the best games in generation, wel done for nauthydog for  not being fan service, showing what is the realistic aproach.
5956) This game is a masterpiece. Yes, the story is upsetting in places but beautifully touching in others. I normally don't care for trophies but I will definitely platinum this game.
5957) I don't often write reviews, but this game needs a few words.,Even if the game had no real gameplay, I would have absolutely enjoyed my whole time with this game, only because of the fantastic graphics, the sound and the story it tells every minute of the game within cutscenes, environmental storytelling and superb written dialogues.,But on top of that there is a very solid and realistic stealth-gameplay, which created situations I will long remember.,And the story, and what it did with me, is a pure masterpiece. The way I felt with characters, even some I didn't want to like in the beginning, was so intense, like the best movies not often manage to accomplish. I cried (some small :) tears of joy and tears of sorrow during this tour de force.,,What a game!
5958) It's a masterpiece. I wish this experience could be lived by all the people and not only by the games. It's a must have for PS4 owners.,**** the haters and all prejudiced people.
5959) I never really understood the hate for this game. After finishing this game i couldnt express what a masterpiece i have finished.,The next gen combat style, the details in combat, the visuals and fighting envoriments, the voice acting, the emotions displayed by every character in the vame. Naughty dog really worked hard on this one.,The Abby part might have been annoying at first because we were at such a good point at story and having to resest to Day1 in seattle again to play as a villain?But her part was really good later on too.,[spoiler]    The ending and everything was a really good way to justify for joel in my opinion. I loved joel so much and by the end of the game i accepted what had happened to him.
5960) I've just finished the game. Going through the credits to the lovely last of us music whilst writing this. Whilst playing as Abby I was really close to dropping off. The moment when i was hitting Ellie to death i thought this was it. I didn't wanna play it anymore. I just continued because i wanted where it was trying to get at. The last part of the game has to be the best sequence in gaming history. The inbetween showing Joel's and Ellie's relationship going through such tension was like a Greek tragedy. Neill Druckmann was 100% committed to his vision. It's a pinnacle of art. Nothing less. I don't think we'll ever get to experience something this emotionally strong in a game. The game ain't about revenge. It is about survival. Mental survival. Physical survival. Survival at any cost. I'm not saying anything about the gameplay nor the graphics because it can't get any better on ps4 it's the best we've ever had in this generation. I wish Naughty Dog to keep making their games based on their vision. Not on fan fiction or whatever makes our mostly brain dead community happy. 10/10
5961) This game is a masterpiece! I'm still thinking about the story a week after beating it. It's not the story I expected to get but it's a welcome surprised. Everyone needs to play this game if they enjoyed the first game and give it a chance. The game did something different and I'm glad they did. Why would you want the same game again? You can just replay the first game if that's all you want. I recommend going in without spoilers and just see what you think.
5962) Definitely worth for 5. I know the story is controversial and sometime it's too political but I think it's the only way to continue Last of us.
5963) I just love this game, it's emotional, dark and the story is just brilliant. Naughty dog did a great job
5964) Fine story great gameplay the characters are difficult to understand in the first but you will see it at the end I hope I didn’t forget anything and enjoy.
5965) Don't listen to anything these idiots are saying. I'm so confused. People are giving it 1 and 0s. it's beyond ridiculous. trolling at the highest level. The story and characters are fantastic. The game is fantastic, top to bottom. The only thing negative i could say of the first game was a few mechanical problems and this game fixed each one. Superb. There are a few "game of thrones" style moments and i thought they were heart wrenching and very bold storytelling. i happy with every choice the writer has made.
5966) The game is gut wrenching and emotional and utterly beautiful. I love how the plot encourages the player to empathize with both Ellie and Abby,  both characters mission and motives are legitimate and the first playthrough was a rough and emotional experience
5967) Beatiful Game, not the most original story but with a deep meaning, grey morality and perfectly executed, with allegorys and cycles starting and ending, it's going to be talked about for years to come, 10/10.
5968) A very dark game with a lot of violence and so unique unlike any other game in the market. For sure i am  giving it 10/10 for such a masterpiece!!!
5969) Incroyable rien a ajouter en espérant le voir game of the year
5970) I love this game, your need to understand that this is a realistic game, realistic actions, realistic decisions. The real world doesn't care about the characters' lives, I know sometimes it hurts a lot but come on man is just a game, the history was created to you Appreciate that
5971) The Naughty Dog’s Masterpiece.,Forget about LGBTQ hate and dumb people hating it for no sense, I really hate games who make things like that just for no reason, but this game don’t make this, the relationship between Ellie and Dina is so real, amazing and lovely.,Imagine if a lunatic had killed your father in cold blood, who was trying to discover the cure of humanity? Imagine if you had some issues with your father figure and in the next day you see him getting killed by a lunatic woman with a golf club? That’s a damn heavy heartfelt motivation.,You’ll never find another experience like The Last Of Us Part 2.,Gameplay:,I’d never played a game too immersive like that, the stealth is so good and I felt so sad when I messed up the run letting an enemy see me.,The gunfight is incredible, you can feel the shots getting out of the gun, the aim system is so realistic, you can’t just blast everyone like a f***ing Resident Evil S.T.A.R.S. super soldier.,The direct confrontation is the best I’ve ever seen, so satisfying, you can feel it with all the variety of animations and all the realism and violence.,Good variations of guns and weapons, including upgrades like in the first game. Good crafting system too.,Different than the first, now you can jump and crouch, and that works fantastic for people like me who likes to be stealth (but trust me, is so much fun to just confront the enemies directly).,The difficult of the game is fine, I think I would like to have less items in the scenarios because that turns the game a little easier, but the AI is something that I’ve never seen, the behavior of the enemies is so unpredictable and real, that’s real intimidating.,The puzzles are fine considering that’s not a game about that.,If you like exploration of huge scenarios…that’s your game, sometimes felt like an open world game, insane level design, this is one thing that ND knows how to do, amazing scenarios, I just got excited to search everywhere for notes and collectibles, so fun.,The scary parts are my favorite ones of gameplay, I just jumped every time with Stalkers and the biggest boss of the game is really intimidating and scary.,The graphics are the best of these generation, facial expressions in cutscenes and in game are really stunning and the best part is the animations, the interactions between Ellie with scenarios and enemies, all her moves and interactions mixed with the beautiful graphics makes a really important role on getting the player immersed and impacted through the game, you can see and feel the care of Naughty Dog on these little things.,Sometimes you gonna fell uncomfortable doing bad, violent and stupid things that corroborates with the narrative. All the suffer, all the sadness, all the sense of vengeance, this game is so much more than that, the feeling inside all the violence in both stories, it’s like a roller coaster of emotions and feelings, you can feel all that and understand just playing the game.,The story is the main point, and that’s where the game really got me.,That's just different than any other game you've ever seen, unique and audacious.,I don’t understand why people are getting so much hate for this, maybe they got the point of the first game wrong, but a lot of people is just being mean.,Joel is not a hero and Abby is not a Villain. They’re people in an apocalypse, just that, that’s the point.,The parts of Abby, for me, is so incredible and important for this game.,I don’t feel like ND wanted to make us “sympathize” with Abby, because she is a terrible person, her friends are the worst, I think that’s the point.,I just think the intention was to bring us a different perspective of all that, to see the other side, to show us the violence, not just trough Ellie and Joel’s journey, but in different relations too, to show us human’s decisions and consequences, Joel’s decisions and consequences, I don’t know if what Joel did in the end of first game was right or wrong, I just know that maybe, if I was him in the same situation, I would do the same, that’s the fact that made me love Joel, cause he is human, not a hero who saves the little girl from the bad firefly villains, but the old man who cannot lose another child.,The most incredible things happens through the journey, the development of Ellie through the game is the deeper and this game made her my favorite character of all time. You gonna fell on your skin everything that Ellie faces.,The end of the game is so good like(maybe better than)the first one, everything makes sense in the end and you can feel how heavy, hard and emotional that journey was seeing all the consequences that this circle of violence made in these two characters lives, showing us what vengeance coasts and sometimes, when you reach something that you’re really looking for, you don’t fell…nothing.,The Naughty Dog’s Masterpiece.
5972) This game is absolutely incredible. An achievement in storytelling and game direction.
5973) What a fantastic game with amazing graphics, voice acting, gameplay and characters. I felt each character was interesting and while at first I hated Abby and her friends, the more I played as her, the more I grew to like her as a character. (I won’t lie though, during the fight in the theatre between her and Ellie I was rooting for Ellie to kick Abby’s ass.) There are some aspects of this game that I would personally change, but the few things I have problems with don’t affect how I feel about the outcome of the game. I don’t mind that Ellie decided to let her go. Obviously everyone’s opinions are their own, but this is a game you need to play with an open mind and with empathy for a character we immediately learn to hate. Abby doesn’t have to be our favorite character (she’s definitely not mine), but she has suffered with loss as well and to write her off as nothing more than a mustache-twirling villain would be wrong. You don’t necessarily have to love the story to enjoy the gameplay. This game was so much fun to explore and I urge everyone to play it to completion with an open mind to gather your own thoughts on how you felt about the experience. I personally will be playing it again because I already know there are things I’ve missed on my first play through. The new characters are so enjoyable. I love Dina, Jesse, Yara, Lev, and even Manny managed to grow on me. I wasn’t a huge fan of Owen or Mel, but I still felt for them. I also loved reading through Ellie’s journal! It was such a nice touch that gave us insight on her thoughts and feelings, especially since she has grown to become more quiet and reserved as a character. The scenery was breathtaking. I loved riding around on Shimmer (RIP Shimmer) and taking in the surroundings. The overgrown plant life and desolated buildings were so cool to explore. I also thoroughly enjoyed descending that huge building as Abby when we are with Lev. The infected are pretty great. The Stalkers were unnerving, as were the infected that just decided to pop out of the walls for no good reason other than to make my life harder than it needs to be. The Shamblers sucked, but just because they scared the **** out of me. The Rat King had me yelling and making rounds on that hospital floor like a big baby. By the end of that encounter I was just wishing for some good old fashioned Clickers. As for my final thoughts: this game was beautifully done overall. I wish we got more time with Ellie but I understand why we didn’t. I’m crossing my fingers for a DLC or a potential third game. I hope you get the chance to enjoy the game for yourself! Endure and survive, everyone.
5974) Complicated but excellent story. It doesn't stop at "Revenge is bad" only, you have to be able to understand the game.
5975) Finally finished the story. I can say it's not bad at all, don't know where all these negative reviews come from. As far as story wise it's INCREDIBLE. great graphics, great playability, great story. Everything is great about this game. Thank you for such a FANTASTIC game Naughty Dog!
5976) The history is amazing, on the order hand the graphics are beaufiful, in my opinion is the best Game to finish the PS4
5977) Game is great in every aspect. The story, the mechanics everything.  People are mad because their logic doesn’t compare to the main characters logic. If you will try to think more widely than you will fully understand the game. I spent 21h 45 min in the game. killtank413 ps4. Added my nickname so you don’t think I am a bot
5978) **** game is just beautiful, from the character development and its wonderful story 10/10
5979) This game was done masterfully.  It didn't force its morals down our throats while still making them clear.  Its message was NOT that violence was bad.  At least, that's not what I walked away feeling.  I walked away with the sense that violence was pointless.  Through all the killing from both sides in the game, nothing was accomplished and no one felt like "The good guy" anymore.  Of course as Naughty Dog has made us expect, the graphics and sound design were top notch.  Many people are criticizing the way a beloved character was taken from us early.  This is a real world where things happen realistically and painfully, and while it hurt us to see, it was a great driving, motivating force to play.  This game got across every message and every point it wanted to exactly how it wanted to.  If people are so blinded by what they think the game is about, that they want a different ending, that's their fault This is a story about Ellie.  About what Ellie feels and does, and she goes through so much, and sees so much, and makes the decision many of us would.  Get over it.
5980) The negative reviews are so wrong! This game is a masterpiece! I hate SJWs, first of all, and I hate the agenda. That being said, those things are in everything now. There’s no getting away from it. This game has bits of that and the leakers seem to take great pride in revealing only those things. They didn’t mention the heartfelt flashback to a museum as astronaut Ellie. They didn’t mention the REASON that Abby killed Joel. Playing as Abby was, at first, off putting. I didn’t like it. I was mad at the creators for making me do it. Then something happened. I started to see things through her eyes. I started to care about Abby and her side. I’ll admit that it took a little while, even after finding out that her father was the Dr that Joel killed to save Ellie. Don’t get me wrong, I hate that Joel dies! It was brutal to watch. It hurt. On the same token, I can understand that Abby is not an evil **** She was getting revenge for her father.,I keep seeing reviewers saying there’s no story. They have not played the game. Period. Nobody can play the full game and say there’s no story. There is tons of story, great story! You just might not like it, so say there’s no story. The story is just as amazing as part one. Joel is there. He’s in the the flashbacks. Ellie finds out what he did at the hospital and hates him for it. She cuts him out of her life and shortly after he is killed. She is ridden with guilt and that’s what drives her vengeance do much. She let him down.,Stop listening to the bad reviews. You may not like it because of this or that, but you owe yourself to give it a chance. You can tell that the creators put countless hours of blood, sweat and tears into this game. They poured their souls into it. You can feel it throughout. Don’t miss out on this experience just because thousands of fake players say it’s bad. Chances are, you’ll love it!
5981) Fantastic follow up for one of my favorite games. Play and judge the game for yourself!
5982) Ok. What can I say about this game. Just the best game of my life.,The way that this game show us how the human being is terrible and wonderful and all the feelings that i felt playing this, ok, this is wonderful, this is amazing and beautiful. Perfect game, play it and feel for yourself.
5983) Beautiful game, best on ps4 and Game of the Year, Thank you Naughty Dog, just masterpiece!
5984) amazing game and everyone is just hating on it because they are too much of little babies because there dumb Joel dies and it got leaked so they cried and ran here to comment it sucked and haven't even played the game
5985) The final showdown makes the length and the game's story worth it. I was VERY uncertain how to feel about how early our favorite character from the last game would get killed off and that most of this games middle section was following a brand new character but by the last 3/4ths it made perfect sense. I started to care for this character as well and understand why she did the things she did. Having the two mains not kill each other in the end but still letting ellie beat Abby within an inch of her life helped the pain of Joel and a few other characters sting less. This game was the most tense and heartbreaking experience I've had in a video game. The animation, attention to detail, gameplay, and art of this game has me absolutely floored. Bravo naughty dog once again
5986) this game has got everything,,at the end i was screaming at my tv and begging ellie to not kill abby , because she was so close to become a monster she was trying her best to be like joel getting revenge torturing making people talk but she just couldn't take it anymore and she finally accepted her mistakes and found out revenge is a pointless cycle without any result, lev made abby to understand this fact but ellie needed more time but hopefully she did get the point , for me it showed that in ellie there is some humanity left ,,it's kind of funny because when I've started to read some comments toxic people just reminded me the serephites,  group if people with some crazy beliefs and just cannot accept their mistakes and give this game another shot and when others trying to open upsome facts for them they just refuse to listen and simply attack,people need to think about this game more because it's not even a simple game its a mirror that shows our community, thanks you naughty dog for sharing this absolutely amazing story with  us
5987) I have finished this game twice since its release, which was a week ago.,I believe this is one of the best pieces of narrative in video games that I have ever played. Its thematic construction is always on point and it makes you feel things no other game has ever made me feel before (not like this, at least). Among those things there is hate, discomfort and fear, which might explain why some people were immediately against the game.,The story is non linear, but the structure answers to the themes of memory and forgiveness which almost nobody has tackled in youtube comments since it is less evident than the story of revenge.,The gameplay is nearly perfect and it feels much more diverse and exciting than the mechanics of the first game, not to mention the graphics and the world design.,This game is a rare specimen of what narration can within the interactive media. In a world where multiple endings and alleged player agency are kings, this game tells a story we might not like, but which must be told and leaves us no choice. Violence and vengeance are cycles which must be broken and not everything must end with death, even if the path towards growth is built on violence.,Anyway, I do not mean disrespect but I believe that when (or if) some of the haters read George Orwell's 1984 (the most popular example of an acid ending I could think of), they threw the book to a bonfire, wondering why the hell didn't Winston Smith just entered the Ministry of Truth with guns blazing and then fought the Big Brother on top of the Big Ben and then proceeded to kill him with a bazooka. "I don't know, bro. It's disrespectful to the readers."
5988) In my opinion it is an incredible video game in all kinds of areas but mainly in the emotional field, since very few games manage to make their players feel the emotions in such a well-achieved way both in the cinematics and in the confrontations against the various enemies  .  I can say without fear of being wrong that it is undoubtedly one of the few video games that show us how everything would be after a pandemic of this magnitude and that from my point of view is something that is very remarkable.,Last but not least, the story.  I think that like any video game the story has its positive and negative things, but without a doubt the most remarkable thing from my point of view is how heartbreaking and raw it becomes, which is perhaps one of the reasons why  so many criticisms of the game.
5989) Rate is 10 because of crazy haters, real rate is 7. This game is really gives me unusual expirience. I didn’t like looking at events from both sides at first, but then the second part of the game became much better for me than the first. The second part presented a new narrative experience that was not there before. But for the main plot topics, the developers had to sacrifice functional characters, which I did not like. I did not understand the ending right away, for this I had to remember the game and look for answers, because the reason for the act was much deeper than other similar moments in the scenario. Gameplay is awesome. There are transfers to only 2-3 encounters, the rest is great. Graphics, technology and details ofc amazing too
5990) Amazing game, better gameplay, impresive animations, an emotional history, new mechanics, I loved to play the guitar... Thank you Naughty Dog
5991) Impressive ...,,I waited 7 years for this game and it was all I've ever waited for. Every detail of every inch of the game is perfectly made, every move of Ellie and Abby is so realistic, in combat and when they're just walking or crawling, also every wolf, scar, runner, clicker, etc. is a unique character, with a name and with a sense of where he is standing and the people around him, they even piss off when you kill their dog; when you kill them you can see where the bullet went through, remove extremities or see half bodies after you blow them with exploding arrows or mines. Playing this game has changed everything I've known about single player campaign, which was tough after ND's Uncharted 4.,,The story played with my emotions so much, although the first part began with Joel's past and how he got to be the man who meets Ellie, when we play as Joel we get to see the bond growing because of the attachment we get towards Ellie and how in just one year he radder save her than the entire human race (kinda like the ethic debate about the train going for one or ten persons), whom we watch how his skull is smashed right in our eyes (Ellie's eyes), by a woman that then I have to play with further un the game. This is spectacular in two ways, starting with the idea of Abby, where they work in this grey personality, not black and white, that nobody should be judged as the "good guy" or "bad guy". Second, and most important, Joel made the decision of whipping a hole group of people to save Ellie (beautiful to think about because there's an argue in the game about Ellie saying she wanted her life to matter, but to Joel Ellie's life mattered more than anyone else's), this makes Abby be obsessed about finding and killing him, which she does, making now Ellie go after her. This is pretty basic, but here's the magic of the game, the path Ellie follows for revenge is dark, torturing and killing, including a pregnant woman, they use Joel flashbacks to make you feel her pain, but every crappy act she makes we can see how she's losing to the anger and not being herself (we can see in a fragment of her journal saying "Seattle still hunts me", not regarding Abby, but her own acts), after the theater scene it seemed like it was over, but the game continues to a perfect end. When Ellie is fighting Abby, just about to kill her, two things happen,  we see a Joel flashback in a "is this what he'd want?" kinda way and, more importantly, Joel killed to save Ellie, Abby killed in revenge and Ellie was about to do the same, maybe the Lev was going to seek revenge against Ellie, but she stopped, she ended the Talion law, she put and end to the dark path she was going, which left horrible consequences like Tommy's leaving Maria and Dina leaving the farm and life with Ellie, she even lost the ability to play guitar.,,100% recommended
5992) I've never had a game make me feel so bad in the best way possible. I was so angry when we first had to play as Abby, yet an hour in I was enjoying it more than playing with Ellie. The way she grew on me was so unexpected, I knew that was what they were trying to do and fought it but it still happened, and the repercussions of what we had done were visible in every part of her stofy.
5993) I loved the game. Everything about it was great: the graphics, the details, the facial expressions of the characters, the settings. The acting is great, and the dubbing in Portuguese was perfect. The game teaches a valuable lesson: we are all the heroes of our own history. Enemies are people who, just like us, have feelings and a deep history behind all their actions. I loved every detail of the game and would play it again a million times.
5994) This took me for a ride. One of the greatest experiences I've had in a video game ever.
5995) Great game, Great 20hr Story, fun combat and it makes the right cry. Best Game on the Ps4.
5996) It's amazing don't let anyone change your opinion of experiencing this masterpiece!
5997) i really love this game, i think the story is very deep and emotional in every way. and i think that's why many people does not get it, but it actually works, I've to say it's really cinematic, and sometimes good movies doesn't need to have a happy ending for been great.
5998) I completed the game and felt that it deserves a 9/10. After a few days of thinking about the game and seeing other opinions, I am giving it a 10/10. It is a masterpiece!,,I went into TLOU 2 completely blind, without any spoilers, trailers, gameplay, leaks or anything out there before the release day. Personally, I prefer experiencing games, series, books and movies this way in order to enjoy the full experience as the creators meant it.,,Back to the game, I am a big fan of the first game, I played it 4 times. I got the second game on release day and I loved it from start to finish. I wanted to explore as much as possible and It took me around 37 hours to finish it. After it, I wanted to see how the gaming community feels about it and how similar or different my thoughts compare to theirs. I started by watching critic reviews that turned out to be unanimously positive. After it, I proceeded to check the user scores and to my surprise it was averaging at 3.5 on Metacritic with more than 20k reviews in less than 2 days. This spiked my curiosity to understand this discrepancy, so I decided to read and listen to many opinions along several platforms like YouTube, News Articles, Metacritic.,,It took me almost a week to go through the most relevant opinions I found. The majority of positive reviews dedicate time to analyze the different aspects in the game like story, technical achievements, innovations, gameplay, artistry, and so on. All this detailed analysis made me appreciate the game even more. On the contrary, the negative reviews rush to rant the one or two aspects they disliked and score the entire game based on that, which I consider it is an unrealistic way of evaluate a game so full of details.,For what I could see, you guys are the ones to blame for ruining the story for yourselves by over analysing teasers, trailers, leaks, and info out there. I don't need to delve into a review of the story myself. There are more than enough objectively made video reviews that show the master craft in the making of this game.,,All this brought me to my conclusion and my updated score. I fully respect that we all can have different opinions, but when I see that 80% of user reviews give the game a 0/10 after just a few hours of it being released, I cannot trust what people are saying. The story can be interpreted in different ways and subjectivity has a big presence here, but that will not negate the professionally developed piece of art this game is. I am part of the digital entertainment industry and I appreciate all the hard work put behind this amazing game.,,I recommend this game to anyone willing to go through a mature realistic depiction of a post-apocalyptic world full of danger.
5999) i have some problems with how tragic this game is. but I love it so much and no video game has given me this much of depression.
6000) Maybe some minor spoilers but absolutely no detail about anything in the story. This game was phenomenal. Graphics are breathtaking, combat is fantastic. The story... for anyone reading the user reviews complaining about it, I say play and judge for yourself. It's a mature story that has nuance and really makes you rethink the actions you take during a game. The callbacks and flashbacks throughout and multiple perspectives lend to more depth than the story in the first game.
6001) Amazing game totally make sense, ppl just dont get the idea behind it! I think that is a perfect setup for part 3.,Love Ellie and Abby it's just unfair after so long ppl to hate it so much....
6002) We can see the construction of the carachters. In the first part we see the love, Joel and Ellie making a friendship. In the second part, we see the revenge that will take the two protagonists, because they love someone, who was killed. In the end, the question is, Does Ellie have to take revange? The answer is not easy. You can see the choice between her family, or Joel. The Last of Us part II is not another game of Naughty Dog, is probably the end of the one of the best games in the history. You can see all of the emotions in the characters, all of the intentions to stay alive in a world where everything is scarce. Does Ellie had to have an end of queen? This is not a story of Disney. In the first game, in the diary of Ellie, we can her love for womens. There's not something politically correct. 10/10 to this game.
6003) The Last of Part 2 steps up to the batting plate of its predecessor and knocks it out of the park.  Not only in gameplay, visuals, and its emotionally destructive story, but in the way it strives to deliver a message about love and hate that purely transcends itself. Whatever pre-conceived ideas you have, come to this game with an open mind and you’ll wind up feeling and thinking things you never thought you would.
6004) Excellent game. Not what you wanted, but what it was meant to be and very well executed in every aspect
6005) Unexpected. Different. Ultimately, it’s not our story, it’s Ellie’s. I am thankful I was able to experience it.
6006) Beautifully designed, wonderfully written, and an emotional rollercoaster. Amazing game.
6007) the hate was so unnecessary, this is a perfect dark sequel and adds depth to the characters we got to know in the first game. Would play again
6008) The best game I have played this year. One of the best games I have played in my entire life. Which most people not distracted by their own bigotry seem to agree on. Beautiful graphics, improved gameplay and a visceral, emotional story (with the best characters and acting I have ever seen in a video game). And its great to see that the ancestors of Gamergate might still be very loud on the internet, artificially influencing the User Score on this website, but don't seem to be a very large portion of the actual consumer base. Because maaaan this game sold! I hope Naughty Dog celebrates accordingly. Because everyone who worked on this masterpiece deserves it!
6009) The Last of us 2 finally arrived. I opened the package together wit my brother to install the game. We played 6 hours a day until we finished it and we loved every minute of the Game. First of all this game gets a bonus point in my rating, just because it was treated very unfair by a huge amount of people, some of them got sad because someone they liked died. (Spoiler free) Thats not a valid critic if you look at this game from an at least a bit objective view,,Graphics and Sound (10/10),,TLOU2 is one of the most beautiful Games I have ever played. The graphics were really detailed, with realistic characters, detailed hair and what I loved the most, was how they recreated Seattle. The sounds were amazing as well. Everytime Ellie had to jump a long distance, you really heard how exhausted she was, every destroyed window sounded like the window we sat next to was just shattered in the moment, the window in the game did. Those are just a few examples.,,Gameplay (9/10),,TLOU2 excels over TLOU due to improvements in the Gameplay. Fighting and shooting got clearly improved, making every fight fun, the dodging mechanic allowed you to just beat up runners in close combat more easily and to dodge new, bigger enemies. New hiding mechanics like crouching in tall grass, impoved the gameplay for me personally as well. For me looting was an essential and fun part of the gameplay, but I get, why some people dont like it. Well its a survival horror and you dont have to loot everything if you dont want to. 9/10 because of a few bugs I saw.,,Atmosphere (10/10),,Its a suvival horror game, that always made you feel anxious in a lot of situations and got you emotionally carried away a lot of times. I had moments were I was really scared, some were I was really angry at characters and some were I was sad and had to cry some tears.,,Story (9/10),,For me the story of TLOU2 was great. At the moment a character we all loved died, I was really angry at the antagonist and wanted to kill this person and everyone of them so badly. Progressing through the story with everything that happened you saw how Ellie was destroyed by all that hate in her. She turned into a violent person, killing everyone in her way to the Goal, just like Joel. I loved that decision. And the moment you played as the antagonist you felt a bond with her as well, making the end game emotionally really hard to play. If you get carried avay with your emotions like this, the game mus be great
6010) This masterpiece literally surpassed the original in every way... The only time that you have different feeling towards a sequel... This sequel is a necessity to the last of us world... Congratulations to the great Naughty Dog for yet again raising the bar so damn high...
6011) Absolute Masterpiece. I have to support Neil and the team for their stellar work here. If only all the haters realised their response is the exact conversation ND is having with this game.
6012) i was very sceptical of the direction they were pushing this sequel in. However once again naughty dog have pulled off the impossible and made their most emotionally engaging, and technically impressive and biggest game to date. The nuance of mechanics, graphics, audio, creative direction is like nothing I have seen in video game before and you can practically play this game as smoothly as a movie. It truly feels like a next generation title. The story is complex (much more so than the original which may surprise most) and difficult which i don't mean to sound as if its a bad thing because it's not. But it's where this games back lash has come from. The last of us 2's story is a true gritty piece of art teeming with dark beauty and harrowing pain. Play it with an open mind, and do not let your personal views cloud the experience of this game. Naughty dog are not trying to push a feminist agenda like the community is making them out to be. This has been blown out of proportion and echo chambered through the community in times of unprecedented social and political tension.
6013) I think this game have a personal story for each player .story is really sad but in other hand it is beautiful and attractive.graphic and game play are grate.and at end I can say that every one must play this game
6014) The Last of Us 2 is a very polarizing game, with different narrative threads weaving together to make a complete story.,,This game does an amazing job at showing how ones actions can have a huge impact on not just themselves but others around them. You can literally rename this game "The consequences of Joel Miller". All the major plot points in this game happen because of Joel decisions in the first game.,,First let's talk about game play. It is leagues beyond the first game having very smooth animation and pretty good AI. In this game you would generally have 3 different play styles depending on who you are fighting. The WFL, The Seraphites, or The Infected. Also playing as the quick and agile Ellie makes it easier to sneak around. Then playing as the brutish Abby makes head on attacks a lot easier. Along with the gun upgrades and character progression trees, you have so much customization. This game is refined to the extreme.,,Graphics/Art: This is one of the best looking games this generation. If not the best looking game to come out in this era. ND jammed packed this world with some much life and detail. Playing in the forest area of this game really made it seem next gen. The character designs and the art are out of this world as well. I noticed especially with the infected. The first Clicker I saw looked much more violent and deadly.,,Music: Once again the Last of Us music is phenomenal the games soundtrack plays on every scene so well. Even outside cut scenes the music while exploring fits the tone of each environment you are in. 0 complaints from me.,,Story: Let me just say this. This games story is beyond the first game. Let's get the elephant out the room; Joel's death. It makes perfect sense that Joel dies this way. Without even knowing the rest of the game his death in my eyes was done perfectly. Joel is not the good guy and never has been. Many in the in-game universe would describe him as a monster. Tess said "Joel we are not good people", Tommy hates those years surviving with Joel because they did terrible things. Joel has killed many innocence and has destroyed many of families. He has tortured and beaten so many people. Eventually that would catch up to him. Abby asked Joel "To guess who they were". Joel has crossed so many people he cannot even make an educated guess to who is coming after him. I love Joel but I can see he is not a good person and is flawed. He got the death he gave so many himself. Also it is perfectly in Joel character to save Abby. He has been in Jackson for 4 years and their main objective is to protect the people in their community and also expand it. They have saved brought people in numerous times over the 4 years. And that is explained within the first 3 to 4 hours of the game.,,Now while following Ellie we get to see her get revenge on those who wronged her. While playing as her you feel her rage and you want her to kill everyone that hurts Joel. But something that was not expected was Ellie slowly starting to break down because of what she is doing. Nora, Mel and Owen are great examples of Ellie not having the stomach to do what she thinks she needs to do. Ellie part of the game is emotional and you believe in her the entire time. Also getting to see how Joel progressed through flashbacks was amazing. We get to see how soft and tender he became over the years. Really well done story telling.,,Now in my opinion the best part of the game. Playing as Abby. When I first started playing as Abby I knew what ND was doing. And I was rolling my eyes because there was just no way I would side with Abby. But as her story continues and you see it play out. You began to realize that Abby has more compassion than Ellie or Joel. Many times she could have killed them all but she never wanted to end up like her biggest monster "Joel". She even runs parallel to Joel in the first game. While he found solace in Ellie, Abby found solace in Lev. By the end of the game I wanted Abby to win. Because she gave chance after chance to people who really did not deserve it.,,Overall do not look at anyone in this game as good or bad. There is no black and white. Only shades of grey. Although I liked Abby in the end, she is still a bad and terrible person. Joel is still my favorite character but he is a monster.,,Go into this game with an open mind and let ND take you on an adventure.
6015) Absolute gem of a narrative experience. Please play this game. Unfortunate with the leaks before hand and how people have taken them out of context but this game is a masterpiece. best form of media i've ever ingested if you have played the first game you owe it to yourself to experience this game. It will be tough but not every story is supposed to make you feel safe and happy.
6016) Delivered in every way. Excellent storytelling. Can’t wait to see where the franchise heads from here on.
6017) Amazing game! Loved every second. Thank You Naughty Dog! This could get game of the year!
6018) First of all let me say this people.Stop being butthurt over a VIDEO GAME if you don't like it great move on with your life. I enjoyed the game and in my opinion This game is fantastic great story, gameplay and mechanics. It's better than the original. Don't believe the negativity. If you read alot of these comments they don't make sense. Like how this is boring and a walking simulator but people continue to praise games like Death stranding and A Plague Tale Innocence. Also the Last of us was never some love story it's about tragedy. Have you guys played the first game almost everyone ellie or joel meets dies.Also people play Spiderman ps4. peter had a similar choice to save his aunt but choose to save the world. THAT'S WHAT HEROES DO..
6019) best game I have ever play. Naughty dog just changed the industry forever for good, hope other companies have the guts to tell the stories the artists want to tell
6020) The last of us 2 is extremely complex psychologically. I understand how people feel compelled to hop on a negative bandwagon. These people are unable to grasp the genius of this game. I pity them and their simple minded way of thought. Congratulations on naughty dog for making one hell of a game!
6021) amazing story meaningful situations  great gameplay mind blowing graphic it has got everything
6022) I thought that the story for this game was brilliant. The game play still remains somewhat clunky and weird, but quite honestly I came for the story so it's not that big of a deal. A lot of people are complaining about the story, and I simply don't understand why. This is a story about the consequences of your actions, and about the value (or lack thereof) of pursuing revenge for past wrongs, perceived or otherwise.,,I think some may forget that Joel is a hero to us ONLY because he was our primary POV character in the original game, but to those not sharing the player's POV he would have seemed a monster. Those touched by his journey across country with Ellie in tow most likely would have considered themselves the victims of some crazed killer.,,People also seem to forget that the original game ended on a down note, with Ellie becoming distant from Joel as she suspects he's lying to her. In fact, the original game ends with Ellie clearly realizing that Joel has lied to her, and the bond between them, forged over the course of the entire game, is now broken. The sequel picks up in exactly that place, with their relationship strained by Joel's (well meaning) dishonesty, and Ellie's (well founded) suspicion.,,I deeply appreciated the way that the game explores the idea that neither Ellie or Abby are actually the good or bad guys, just simply that they were people on opposite sides of a very **** situation. You know...the way things tend to work in the real world.,,As far as the so-called "SJW agenda" of the game...well, I'm not really sure that the mild depiction of two women involved romantically can actually constitute an agenda of any kind. What, do you all live in a place where women don't date each other or something? I also don't think showing a physically strong, action oriented woman checks the agenda box either. Did you people hate Ripley in "Aliens" as well? How about Sarah Connor in "Terminator"? Was that also an SJW agenda?,,For those that think Joel's character was "assassinated" by the events in the early game, I feel like you're missing all the wonderful, touching moments we get with him throughout the rest of the game, and even in the final epilogue.,,Those of you whom have made up your minds about what this game is, even before playing it (and let's be honest, 14k negative reviews less than 12 hours from release...on a 25 hour long game...is a sure sign of people making up their minds without playing it,) are doing themselves a disservice, and depriving themselves of a fantastic game experience.,,If you don't like it after playing it, then that's perfectly fine, you have every right to your opinion. But if you're giving it zero scores just because some angry YouTuber or Twitter told you to, then perhaps you should take a breath and start thinking for yourself.,,TL;DR,I thought it was great, and I highly encourage people to give this game a shot, most of you won't be disappointed.
6023) Emotionally incredible game. It made me sad, happy, furious and ashamed. Neil Druckmann made an excellent experiment with the emotions of players. I understand why lots of people just couldn’t accept what happened, but if you at least play that game and accept what you see, you will get an unforgettable emotional experience . Plus this game is also a technical masterpiece. 10/10, bravo ! And I’m sure that 99% of all those people who put 0 do it despite they haven’t even played it . And yes, I believe they could have put less lgbt in the game . But it doesn’t ruin the overall experience and can be easily ignored.
6024) Don‘t listen to all those trolling idiots. Technically mindblowing Visuals and Audio. A cineastic Storytelling and a Game with the most Human Reactions ever made in a Videogame. You can see and feel every Emotion of the Characters. The sexual Relationships between the Prota-and Antagonists are dignified shown and comprehensible.,The Gameplay is most like in TLOU 1, but with many Quality-of-Life Improvements and better Gunplay. The Feedback is a blast when you fire a Shot with the Revolver or hit Enemys with an Arrow. The most polarizing part in this Game is the Story. For me personally, it’s realistic and a useful Story in the Franchise. It’s not TLOU 2, it’s Part 2, like written in the Title, it’s the further Course of one big Story and that‘s feelable and well made.,I hope that all People, giving a Score here at Metacritic, play the Game, before sharing dumb homophob and contextually wrong Spoilers to ruin other Players this greatful Experience.
6025) Now I know you’re looking at that score and scoffing, probably calling me a shill, but hear me out. A 10 is not a perfect game. I rate games based on a combination of enjoyment and artiststry demonstrated. With that being said, here’s my review for The Last Of Us Part II.,,(For proof that I played the game, my PSN is InsertCoolName21),,>>>Obvious SPOILER warning is obvious.
6026) If people care so much about the 'licks' can go lick anytime. I will speak with honesty as i like things to be clear at all times. When people like to dream and you **** this up they will hate you just because it's not what they expected. I get it, it's true but when you are trying to create something that will surpass the previous game you try to think outside of the box. I might not enjoy a few things as well story wise but that does not mean the game sucks. Graphics, colors, light, movement, sound, etc everything worked to the very detail. You cannot expect something new to the game-play as there are standards but still there are visible improvements in motion of the character. I'm not a day one in games, ever. I only look out to do so for my special games 'gems' which i know very well how to distinguish. Well it was worth it once more. No need to say more, even my words or anyone's matter if you have a character/personality yourself. Do what you want in the end ;)
6027) All the other reviews are either highly homophobic, Russian nonsense or just people unable to comprehend a more complex story. This game has all the ups and downs of the previous one plus so much more! Game play was challenging, graphics were beautiful (with so much detail that people would have probably missed), sound design was amazing, and story was full of twists and turns that kept you up at night, wondering what its going to happen next. This is not a game with kids with ADD, people with no knowledge of English whatsoever or just someone who wants a dumb action game. This game deserves a hundred out of ten. Feeling sorry for the kids who can't appreciate an intricate plot.
6028) The game is a masterpiece in my many others opinions. I respect if you are negative against the game we all have our differences. However there are many reasons I think the game is great, one of them being that despite over characters in the game being killed so quickly and that Ellie doesn’t have enough time to pay attention - was think of yourself in this situation and it equals up. People will complain about character development whilst there isn’t much it makes a bit sense as Ellie has already spent about 5 years with them it wouldn’t really make sense for such character development as it isn’t really necessary. Now the ending despite if you hate it or love it, it all is so real and makes sense. Ellie after killing almost all of Abby’s friends as finally got the chance to kill Abby but what is the point why do it why Abby had a reason to kill Joel but most importantly will killing Abby bring Joel back of course not, Ellie seems to have had enough killing and is done for now. If you imagine yourself at this situation you would have more likely done the same thing. Now onto the gameplay I am glad that most of the gameplay is similar to the first game because that system is perfect however has some really good improvements now such as being able to craft more supplies to use in battle but also to improve the way you play through using supplements for a variety of stuff. The guns in this game are also so fun and enjoyable I never ended only using one gun for a encounter. Being able to use a rope to access places which we wouldn’t be able to do without is amazing, and the prime feature is just so useful and so realistic. The graphics is this game are top notch; one of the best games to perfect graphics so far not only that but the way your clothes will change depending on what environment you are in and where you land. Your bullets can be seen having different effects and sounds on what they are hitting like I don’t see this in any other game. Also I forgot to mention the small boss fights which are really nice and interesting to do it makes your heart beat especially on the harder difficulty’s. The dodging system is extremely useful and so cool it make me feel like in a movie or in a situation in real life.  Sorry if i missed any stuff. One to the accessibility options I am so glad and appreciate the fact they made these so many people can experience the game whichever way they would like even if they are slightly blind or deaf. Thank you Naughty Dog. Now finally Joel dying had a huge effect on me it cause me depression for several days and still it whilst writing this. Never would I have thought a video game would have such a effect on me. Truly sad Joel died but hopefully we will soon see him in a DLC. If anyone from Naughty Dog ends up reading this - Thank you and keep up the amazing work.
6029) One of the best games I have ever play, the characters, the story and gameplay are all amazing. Sad to see such a great game being reviewed bomb by people who has never played the game. It is a masterpiece of a game
6030) This game is perfect, hopefully you kids grow up some day and understand this game.
6031) awsome. just awsome. it really makes you think about a lot of things. every time you kill an npc and somebody screams their name, you start to realize that each npc has a story, has friends and etc. you can see that everybody has a story.,at first you think abby sucks, you think she must die. but when you start to understand her background story, you can see why she killed joel, and you can undertand how she felt. this games teaches a lot, its inexplicable.,ellie, on the other hand, lost friends, lost her love dina, only because of a revenge. at the end, she has nothing left, and she knew that killing abby couldnt make everything go away. abby also started to understand a bit of joel and ellies side of the story. she betrayed the WLF, she killed her colleagues, just to save lev and yara. she gave up on everything because of them. she developed a love for them, and then she realized why joel saved ellie. because of love. i think this game is one of the greatest of all time.
6032) visually this is a very beautiful game, but when it comes to the story this is nothing but a snuff film inspired game where the moral of the story only leads to nihilism. If you want to play a game that cares about the story and focuses on well scripted dialog that doesn't feel forced then i recommend playing the first game.,My score 3/10,IGN Score 10/10 Stunning and brave
6033) Masterpiece. Dont need to say anything else. Those who give it a poor rating are just too damn stupid to understand
6034) I don´t get the hate.,This game is a crazy emotional journey and get you thinking.,Never played anything like it and probably wont ever again.,Great work Naoughty dog!!!
6035) As someone who is normally a fan of Naughty Dog games and of the original Last of Us, I feel this game is a slap in the face. If you enjoyed the first game because of the story, characters and relationships, this game is not for you. Due to some questionable story-line choices, the game feels like a slog to get through and tries to force its players into a middle school ethics class rather than engross us in an enthralling story. The graphics are some of the best this generation, but the game-play rarely features anything innovative and feels like more of the same as the first game. Overall, averaging everything out I would give this game a 5/10 and similar to Game of Thrones season 8 and Star Wars - Rise of Skywalker, this is one sequel that will sorely disappoint even its most loyal fans.
6036) Absolutely fantastic game! Don't believe all the bad reviews because the game got review bombed! This game picks up where the first left off and never has a dull moment! Absolutely fantastic story worth playing!
6037) Fantastic game. It doesn’t necessarily give you what you want, but what is right and realistic; karma; feelings; shivers; character development; real, lovable characters you care about. The scenery and animation is beautiful, and the motion capture is so impressive I’m out of words. I trust in naughty dog with all my heart in this game. I wouldn’t have it any other way. You should play it. 10/10.
6038) Most players are only rating this game negatively due to the fact that the story took a different turn than what players expected and wanted. That does not mean the story is bad, nor does it mean the gameplay is bad. If you enjoyed the first installment, you will likely enjoy this take as well. I am not actually giving this game a 10; that is just an attempt to raise its unfair user score. In reality, I'd rate this game a 7/10. It's good. It's not as good as the first installment, but I think that would be unreasonable to expect. TLoU was one of the best games ever made. This second part did what it sent out to do. View it for what it is rather than for what your expectations want. I've finished it twice now, and I think you'll appreciate the story more on the second playthrough. It has flaws, but it's a good game.
6039) Awesome game, but not for everyone. As Neil Druckman said in an interview, you will either love it or hate it. Nevertheless, if you enjoy the gameplay of the first game, you are in for a treat with this one.,Again, if you are a sensitive person and think the story should go as you want, then by all means play something else with that option. This is a linear game and it is Naughty Dog's story. Buying the game do not give you rights on how the story should go
6040) The last of us 2 is so amazing. Yes, have many bugs, but the history and gameplay is perfect. I love it
6041) For me the story was perfect. It's so interesting that in the first game they established joel and ellie as sympathetic characters, but not necessarily loveable. joel is made apathetic by grief and ellie's naive and a bit awkward; regardless, we grow to love them for all their complexities. in the end, joel makes a terrible decision that's the right one for him, and the audience may not agree but /everyone/ understands him, and most forgive it because they love him and ellie.,In this game, they took loveable characters and said yes, they're sympathetic, but they're not the heroes and you're not going to forget it. and honestly? that's incredible writing, because it /hurts/. it would've been so easy to tell a similar story with characters we don't know so it doesn't 'ruin' ellie and joel, but that's the point- we feel it because they matter to us, this whole game is so personal to gamers because of the successes of the first game. we're invested, we care, we want them to live and we want them to be happy and that's not what this story is. they're complex, they're traumatised, they make bad choices. but they love each other. we love them.,No one has to like this game, but no one can say they don't feel anything while playing it.,**** the haters
6042) thats a good game, one of the best, you need to know thats not a gift to the players, you need to be atencious to every move, the game shows that revenge not worth it, actually it makes you hate abby even more, but that the intention, redemption is the real teme of the game, not revenge.
6043) A great game! Yes the story is very different but thats good. I don't need everything to have a happy ending in life like a Disney Movie. Real life is also not fair and cruel.,I think they made a great Job.,Graphics with facial animations and enviroment is nect genalready..
6044) Naughty Dog expands on the predecessor and have created an incredible experience in The Last of Us Part 2 that truly moved me. The game is dark and horrifying, echoing at times the scariest part of gaming, yet mixes this with a rich, vibrant world, that pushes video games forward. Everything from Part 1 has been pushed further- combat, environment, graphics. The narrative explodes in a well placed dense way as Ellie traverses America seeking revenge after a traumatic event. Exploring the other side of the story so to speak (avoiding spoilers) kept me guessing at every step of the way and truly had me evoking empathy in places and people I did not expect. This cultivates in a gloriously poignant finish that left me smothered in emotion, leaving me with a similar feeling after the credits rolled on part 1. The amount of Uncharted-esque set pieces in the game are well placed and thrilling. The themes of vengeance, grief, love and loss run rampant in this game but are beautifully threaded together in ways that kept me guessing, hoping, gripping onto characters. This is not for the faint of heart and I dare say is not for everybody as it plays with players expectations. This at times may frustrate what you've come to know from Part 1 of the game, but is explained in ways that only enrich the first game more, allowing me to find peace. Upon finishing the game the credits scrolled allowing me the time to breathe, take in what I'd just seen over the course of my 27 hour journey and ultimately reflect on what was an experience I won't forget.,The Last of Us Part 2 is truly a masterpiece. 10/10
6045) don't give in to the massive hype and hate surrounding part II. it is by any means a great game overall. play it and decide for yourself.
6046) The game was absolutely amazing. I don't even know what the big fuzz was about.
6047) Fantastic video game. A near perfect masterpiece with a gripping and engaging story from start to finish and tremendously fun gameplay that makes you wanna keep playing.
6048) All the hating on this game is ridiculous. Fair enough if it's not your thing but to call this game bad is just a childish response to not getting the story you wanted.
6049) I think I´m a minority in this topic, but this game hit all the right notes with me. And is really sad that this isn´t happening with other gamers. Personal context can change every piece of art and in this case, you really have to understand that this is a linear story. Choices are taken by characters, not the player. Even if you don´t like the twists and turns that the plot takes, a lot of the ideas and elements presented in the game show the evolution of videogames as entertainment and pieces of art. I highly recommend it, play it with an open mind, and really try to remember that not everything is made to appease the fanbase.
6050) Thank you to the Naughty Dog team for all the passion and hard work that obviously went into this game. You people deserve all the accolades.
6051) Great game, no matter what haters think , a very good story as your company has accustomed us
6052) It's one of a kind masterpiece, I might never gonna felt this way for a game ever again, Thanks Naughty Dog, all of the people that created this your hard work has not wasted, hope there will be a part 3 but if not then I will support the other games that Naughty Dog developed.
6053) This game is great!!!!!!! Don't listen to some angry fanboys! Thank you Naughty dog!
6054) You can't get any better than this. It's complete with emotions, turmoil, heartache, love and so much more. It's not the type of game to rush through, you have to take it slowly and experience the amazing graphics and surroundings you are in. If you have never played this game then you have no idea what you are talking about. It's a game to play, to experience and to love from beginning middle and end. Never judge this game by leaks or vids, play it for yourself and you'll be blown away on how well amazing this, game really is. Worth every penny. What a masterpiece.
6055) TLOU2 is one of the best written games of our generation  it’s oriented for a very mature Audience and takes on a lot of modern political  issues without been In your face or rude about it.  It’s a revenge story From 2 oposite points of view. It confuse you to the point of not knowing who are the good guys and the bad guys. At the end it’s the kind of story you think about long after you finish the game,Very good game A new kind  of story were the good guy not always win
6056) Graphically - This game is a stunning testament to hard work and commitment to detail.,Audio - Gustavo Santaolalla has done another understated masterpiece. And licensed songs like Future Days are tastefully and powerfully used.,Gameplay - Better than the first by a wide margin. The combat is varied, intense and fun. Your options in every encounter are numerous. And it's challenging on higher difficulty levels. .,Story - IF YOU PLAYED THE WHOLE GAME the story is both intense and sad and memorable. The hold direction taken to get me to like and resonate it with a character I hated was bold and daring and I love that they challenged me in this way. Masterclass storytelling.
6057) Amazing game, a technical masterpiece.  I, unlike most people, was able to avoid spoilers and enjoyed the game thoroughly.  There may be things that happen that you wish you can change, but that doesn’t make it bad.....to me at least.
6058) Best game of my life, more games like this. Despite all the spoilers, I did not spoil the impression of the game.
6059) This game is the most powerful game that I experienced despite I experienced the most depressing game in my life. it does not let me go because of what happen to the main characters.,,Yes this game gave me a good lesson. Ellie lost her everything but it does not make him a monster or make him lose her humanity. at the end of story she showed us that she is our real hero. Abby lost the competition and ellie won it at almost same situation.,She showed us the diffrence between the goodness power and evil power in this world.,,Thanks to naughty dog to take this big risk. You are all my Heros
6060) This game is why I still have faith in game companies. A true masterpiece and second game to LOU.
6061) Simply, an amazing experience. Show both sides of the coin, making a character like Ellie, almost a villain because of her thirst for revenge!!!
6062) I had to create an account just to post this review. I won't be long.,,+,An amazing, just amazing story. This is a game that makes you think and that makes you feel. There were parts where I was so disgusted by what the game forced me to do that I had to put away the controller for a while. You get to dive deep into the characters which makes everything they do and everything they feel that much more impactful. While the game never gives you any choice of what to do (just like first game), it doesn't serve up a simple picture either. It really forces you think, to consider for yourself what/who's right/wrong. It's an exhausting, but rewarding, storyline that would have made the creators of KOTOR 2 proud.,,The graphics are simply stunning, as good as it gets on the PS4. Especially the motion capture which really makes the character models come alive.,,+/-,Gameplay is mostly on par with the first game, though it's been enhanced. Still, more could have been done here to refine it. Gunfights are still a bit awkward.,,-,Overreliance on cutscenes and flashbacks. There were stretches of the game when things really got a bit tedious. I get what the devs are trying to convey with a certain cutscene of flashback gameplay sequence, but they really could just shorten it and let you get back to actually playing.,,Some of the mini-games (notably the ones involving a guitarr) were also a bit tedious.,,TLDR:,This is one of the single greatest games, or even experiences, ever created. Seriously, you will not regret buying this game.,,Though if you're a bigot and you don't want any more nuance in your storylines then what you get in an episode of MLP, this game is probably not for you.
6063) This game is incredible. Don’t listen to the haters who haven’t even played it.
6064) Great story. The combat is pretty cool too. I would say the 1st one is a bit harder though. I do like how you can prone and hide better too. I like how you can smash windows and stuff and love how Ellie uses the knife. A lot of anti gay right wing nutbags review bombed it day after release. I was upset Joel died because of the memories they both shared. But at the same time I kinda already expected something tragic like that. It was already rumored he may die. It's an apocalypse. Things like that happen. Walking dead series main characters died but people still watched anyways. They already said the 2nd one was gonna be dark and about hate. You understand why Ellie let her go if you follow the story. They both already lost everything. What was the point of Ellie killing her of she already took everything away from Abby? Abby killed Joel and Ellies friend. Ellie killed Abbys friends and boyfriend. They were pretty much even at that point. There was no reason for further bloodshed and Ellie understood that and let her go. Eye for an eye. They were even
6065) it's very good gameplay, graphic and the combat system. However, the story is not what I hoped for but it doesn't mean it's a bad game. Far from it. But the story is very depressing for me.
6066) Best game ever - Game of the year no doubt about it. Loving it all the way. Thank you Naughty Dog ❤️
6067) Through out the game ive felt emotions that i thought i lost years ago. Thank you Naughty Dog
6068) this game is not for everyone,it needs a strong mind,a grown man,an open look
6069) Game of the gen! This game is epoch-making without a doubt, even if I don't agree with some choices.
6070) Alot of people just thinks it's bad because their waifu Joel dies and they hate any representation other than a straight white male in video games, to those people I say please get over yourselves. Also I like the part where they eat burritos. Also less anal in part 3.
6071) The last of us part 2 is a great game much breath taking views and graphics are outclass like they are amazing the story line the visuals tbe details everything is so much perfect cant wait for The last of us part 3
6072) Honestly I think this game is actually an 8/10 instead of a 10/10, but I feel like a lot of people are just review bombing this game based on leaks and incomplete playthroughs and I feel the need to compensate for all those review-abusers.,I know that I'm contributing in skewing the rating this way, but I will gladly come back and change my rating to an 8/10 if review bombing is reversed in some way.,,I understand the anger people feel towards multiple keymoments in the story. It's a truly unique game in the way the story is told and I don't think it's told in the best way possible. However I appreciate what they tried to accomplish. The problem is that I didn't always feel the way I knew they wanted me to feel.,,To me this is a unique experience that made going through the game rough at times but I like to think of myself as en open-minded person and I've always wanted to play a game that featured a true anti-hero because I'm tired of all the games where you get to be the hero or villain. This is something else. You're neither the hero nor the villain. You're just going through the story of people in a world that's gone to sh*t. You may not agree with what happens in the story or you may not feel satisfied with the events in the story and I think this is where they tried to do a similar thing as they did in the first game in a different way and it just doesn't work the same way.,,*spoiler warning for the first game*,At the end of the story Joel goes on a manic rampage instead or saving the human race and undoes everything you've been working towards the entire game and dooms the entire population by doing so. As a player you folow the story and have no say in the decision that Joel makes. Eventhough this rampage is completely immoral and unethical in every possible way, you understand where Joel is coming from because the entire game builds up to this moment and this is what makes the story of the first game so memorable.,,This time they tried to switch it around and try something unique and this makes your mind conflict with your feelings. It's a true experience of morality in it's greyest forms and a critical look at the cycle of violence. It's an ambitous project and it might not be for everyone. If you just want to feel like a badass hero saving the world and mindlessly blow up people without having to deal with the consequences, you should probably skip this game and play something else. There are a lot of games out there that do not deal with the darker side of violence and war.,,I can't help but feel like all games that tried this in the past have been criticized for pushing an agenda while also celebrating the violence they condemn. It might be very hypocritical for a game to do this, but by showing two sides of the coin you can actually nuance the celebration of violence and focus on the morality and meaning of it all. I think this games does exactly that and it might not always feel right or wrong, but I think that's part of the experience you'll have with this game.
6073) This game was amazing! Multiple points of view gave you the entire picture from both sides, and its an emotional roller coaster for both main characters! I loved it from start to finish!!
6074) IT's a great  tittle  with  a new mechanics  of game. You must play without spoilers
6075) Game play is tense and exciting, the graphics and animation are better than any other game I have played and the story and characters are interesting and engaging. Surpasses the first game in many ways and is a treat to play
6076) Emotionally 10/10, got everything I’ve been looking for. Technically, at the end I was a bit tired of gameplay, but the story kept me going. I’d recommended to spread the game out, take a break if you feel like the combat is getting old. Come back in a day or two, the story doesn’t disappoint.
6077) A genuinely outstanding game. Amazing graphics, epic settings, a moving and daring plot, gameplay than grips you until the end. Ignore all the haters - they are being disingenuous - this is a brilliant game and a must buy in my opinion.
6078) Magnificent Story Telling. I don't know why people are criticising this masterpiece. If you want the same story line of ellie and joel, then you just go replay the first one. To me personally this was one heck of a unique experience.
6079) It's awesome. It's not perfect, so I'd give it a 9.6, but rounded it's 10. The story isn't the same as the first one, but that wouldn't be easy to repeat. It was sad to lose a character, but that was the point of losing said character. The gameplay is better than the first.
6080) The game is exactly what it was supposed to be. 0 is the exact amount of fu*ks I give about all the bullcrap that all the naysayers are insinuating.
6081) I really enjoyed the improved sound design and music as well as the graphics over the first game. I enjoyed the story as well but maybe not as much as the first game.
6082) This is the exact game I've been looking forward too. Back in 2016 when the first trailer dropped me and a buddy predicted that this game would show us the consequences of Joel taking down the fireflies - and that's what we got here. The gameplay is similar to the original, the score is phenomenal, the characters go through hell and back. They made some bold writing choices, and sadly a lot of people weren't on board with it, seemingly due to leaks mostly.  The leaks are a bit off, they don't fully explain the experience of this game. And to the people just watching "Lets Plays" that doesn't really give you the proper experience either. To me this is one of the best games I've played, with the only detractor being some minor pacing issues. Otherwise its an easy 10 for me, waited 7 long years for this and was not disappointed.
6083) Definitely worth your money and overall a really great game. This game gets a lot of hate but I truly found this to be a great sequel to arguably the greatest game of all time. Is it The Last of Us part 1? No. But holding it to that standard sets a bar that is unfair to the game and all who play it. This game was visually stunning and the amount of details that went into it deserve the highest praise. They also significantly improved the combat mechanics and allows the game to feel fresh and new. Overall if you're debating on whether or not you want to buy this game I say you absolutely should. SPOILERS BELOW,I see a lot of people getting upset about how and when Joel died. Was Joel a hardened survivalist? Yes. However him and Tommy made a split second decision to save Abby from that horde. I hear people saying "Joel would never trust people that easily" but in the first game he did that. Remember Henry and Sam? Unfortunately this time the people he trusted backfired. As for him dying so early on I get the game leading up made it seem as if he was a significant part I'll give you that. But this game wasn't/isn't about Joel. This is Ellie's game and about her need for revenge opposite from Abby's. You we're supposed to feel upset about Joel. His death was supposed to try and get you to feel as if you were Ellie and I think that was accomplished.
6084) One of the best games to EVER grace the world. The story line and the writing are extremely unique, delicate yet harsh, edgy and creative. Everything about this game has raised the bar so so high for all games in General. I can NOT wait for part 3 lol
6085) Well... This game is a masterpiece!!! I played the first one 7x times, and believe, I cry every time I play that game. And now, it wasn't different with part 2... Strong story, strong  gameplay, strong characters, strong decisions. 10/10 Love it!!! It has a soul... Must play!!!
6086) This is all around the most beautifully amazing game I’ve ever played from beginning to end.
6087) To be honest, my true score is 9, story is a bit controversial but acceptable for me. But I gave 10 because I saw so many disgusting negative reviews which are totally unfair for the game maker.
6088) What a game. I think this was a just a scenario of the average gamer not getting what they may have initially wanted but if you set that aside and sit down and play the whole thing, than you can instead appreciate what we got. This was a rollercoaster of emotions and had some of the most fleshed out characters and relationships that I've seen in a long time. The gameplay was amazing, the writing was on point, and the product as a whole was just powerful. Excited to do a second play through with new game + to see what I missed, this game is huge!
6089) Amazing game great work one of my favorites for sure. I liked how great the visuals were and even though the story is under controversy I loved it.
6090) Best story I've witnessed in the universe of video games. It's the kind of art that makes you think about the finale for weeks.
6091) A lot of people just keep mentioning the death of Joel being a huge disaster of the game and story, where in reality this happened early in the game and there are tremendous amount of character building throughout the game. But people just keep focusing on their hatred about how the game doesn't go in the direction they expect to see, and refuse to look at the other side of the coin through Abby's eyes. This is funny as it reflects the reality of the world of 2020.
6092) just finished it and i loved it this is one of the best game i have ever played,10/10 gameplay,10/10 story,10/10 acting,and to the people who didnt like the story , i understand why you didnt like it but dont go on metacrtic and review bomb the game when u didnt even play the game.
6093) its a great game, greate history, greate gameplay, and greate Graphics, the best of PS4
6094) This game was an absolute rollercoaster of emotions, it completely consumed me the week it took me to finish. This is three games in one. The most human game I have ever played, and while there were parts where I thought the pacing felt off, or I really didn't want to continue playing, and it left me feeling incredibly empty once I had finished, it's one of, if not the best gaming experience I've ever had. No game has ever made me feel or think as much about love and hate and what it means to be human. I truly feel like Naughty Dog is in a league of their own when it comes to games and storytelling.
6095) This game for me is the embodiment of melancholy and the beauty that comes with it, the most traumatic experience and the most beautiful and bittersweat also. It is not for everyone, but still is a espetacular game.
6096) I loved how naughty dog stopped makimg games that specifically point out, that the antagonist is evil and the portagonist is not. I love how they let you play as Abby at the peak moment. Showing how being prisoner changed Abby completely and shredded her to pieces. It showed how humans would react not how fictional characters would. People who are giving bad reviews only wanted a game where u kill and kill, which is not the message Naughty Dog wanted to convey.
6097) Awesome game! I don’t understand the hate for the game. It’s an original story and I think that’s great! I also like the gameplay and the graphics.,I absolutely give it a 10/10! I played the game in 4 days and now I’m on new game+ for the platinum trophy.
6098) Amazing game! All the hate before people even played it. Ignore it and play for yourself. If you were a fan of the first you will be a fan of this one
6099) First lets address some of the stupid criticisms:,This game is not some LGBTQ+ propaganda. Yes Ellie is gay, and her love interest is a significant character, but her being gay has no importance to the story. The game would not be any different if she was straight and Dina was a guy. Ellie is the main character on an incredible adventure, that just happens to be gay. There's not a leftist agenda being pushed on Ellie's sexuality, just a character trait. Second, Abby's arms are huge. If you had lost your dad and spent the next four years tracking his murder down to seek revenge, my guess is you'd be hitting the gym hard. Abby is a brute character and provides a very fun gameplay difference from what we're used to.,This game is DARK, and does not have a happy ending. I was very mad at Joel's death, but I knew it had to happen. The point of this game was to show that all actions have consequences, and there are two sides to every story. It's easy for us to think that Joel made the right choice in part 1 saving Ellie, because we played the whole game as Joel. But he killed a lot of people, including Abby's father. It's great that we're mad at Abby in the beginning, because we buy into Ellie's revenge story. We cheer her on at every step and don't care about the lives she takes because to us, they're the bad guys that killed joel.,Then the tables turn, we play as the murder. It's weird, I didn't like it. I found as many ways as possible to kill abby just hoping I could change joel's faith. Then we learn about her father, and start playing as her perspective. You start to care about her and her friends and want to explain it all to Ellie. All the sudden we feel bad about Owen and Mel, we want to do it all differently. This game makes you feel all sorts of crazy emotions. We hate Abby for killing joel, hate it. But understand the reason, because we played the same with Ellie. Both sides are avenging a father figure, and both sides are blinded by this.
6100) Great game, very good storyline. Very coherent considering the whole philosophy of the world we know in that state, and with the gaming experience transmitted its message very clearly.
6101) Perfect game, if you didn't like the plot of the game, ok!,But you can't give it a 0 because of that.,It has the best character and level design of all times.,Naughty dog must be proud of their work, it's perfect.
6102) Masterpiece. Hands down best game of 2020.  Best gameplay of it genre and it takes all the mechanics of the first and improves them.  Some of the Best if not the best graphics out there. Play this game don't be stupid and miss out.
6103) Beautiful game. Had me go through an emotional roller coaster. I was frustrated and angry. Sometimes i didnt want to play the game because it was stressful, but after beating the game it all made sense. They didn't want you to have this satisfying experience the whole game, they wanted it to be emotionally exhausting. And they accomplished that. Really raised the bar in terms of using gameplay as a story telling tool.
6104) This game is good. Very very **** good. Most people seem to think joel would and should have gotten away from killing an entire hospital full of people. He's not Nathan drake, this is a drama, not an action game. Gameplay graphics and story are all the best I have seen in this generation of console. A note about people for some reason being surprised and mad that Ellie is gay. Why are you surprised about this? We knew about that in the last game, it's nothing new and it's always been part of her character.
6105) Great Story. A lot of people will hate this game not because how great the story is but because it didn’t go the way they wanted. As long as the main character doesn’t die then it’s all good. I understand why Joel died that was inevitable in real life standards.
6106) This game is such a great piece of art and storytelling. Living in a post apocolyptic world relationships can make you or break you. Death has its consequences and this story encompasses all of that and more.,The graphics show the true power of next gen consoles. Never seen such a beautiful game.
6107) Themes behind the game: Hate, Morality, Loss, Love, Pain, and Remorse.,Evolution of gameplay: Similar to previous installment, but with many improvements. A.I. is more intelligent, forcing the player to think fast. With Ellie being more agile, exploration is expanded. The Non-Linear exploration gives us more freedom to explore the massive world before us.,Story: Requires alot of focus, open minds, and is down to one's interpertation. Expands on characters. A second playthrough is highly recommended to fully grasp all of it. Soundtrack: Fits the tone of the sequel, whilst being familiar to the player, it also builds tension in the right places. Graphics: Extremely detailed, the team really put alot of effort to make it highly believable and breathtaking. Along with maintaining the sense of an abandoned and harsh world. The brutalility depicted is detailed to a point that you may feel a little queasy from time to time.,Overall: The Last of Us Part 2 is a bittersweet and emotional triumph, where it throws you into a darker, more violent bloodbath than its previous title. It is also a game that will make you question the character's motives and morality at the end of My Score: 92/100
6108) absolutely a Masterpiece. I'm so sorry for the haters who don't understand, poor people. the gampleay is 10/10, audio and graphics are 10/10 and the story it's really good written. my congratulations to ND.
6109) You killed Joel and you expect people to love it... i think im very generous to give this game 3/10.
6110) Having completed the game (29 hours and 40 minutes), I can say that this game has the potential to be one of the greatest of all time.  It is a very HARD story, but it is a very powerful and moving story.,,People who hate this game hate it because:,A) They think it carries some political Agenda (It does not),B) They are angry that Joel got killed thinking that either he didn't deserve it (if you play the game, you understand why Abby killed him...and you would do it to) or that his death was "wasted," I disagree, Joel was not a nice man, he had more than enough red on his ledger over his life and he had to know there were probably at least a dozen people who had the motivation to kill him, but his death, as brutal as it was, was the catalyst for this game.,C) They didn't get the "revenge" they wanted....and thereby missed the whole point of the game.  The Revenge cycle destroys everyone who participates, willingly or unwillingly.  They both lost nearly everyone that they cared for, but in the end, Ellie salvages her humanity.,,This game makes you see and experience the humanity on both sides.  You experience the humanity and inhumanity of each. No one is innocent in this story and there is no happy ending, at least not in the traditional sense.,,But in the ending cut scenes we see that while Ellie has lost everything, she still has the option to start again and grow.  She is not handcuffed to the past.  It was a horribly expensive lesson, but it was a lesson she learned and is now able to grow from.,,Yes, it is not a feel good story and it is hard to play at times and it is emotionally gut wrenching at times, but I believe that this sets up the franchise for a fantastic Part III.  I believe that TLOU2 will be just like what the Empire Strikes Back is to the original Star Wars Trilogy.  A very dark middle that sets up a glorious ending for the saga.  And all these "haters" are going to have to eat their words.
6111) Don't get fooled by all the 0 points reviews from (mostly) people who haven't even played it. Makes absolutely no sense to give this game zero points. Even if the story would really be trash (it isn't!), you would still have to rate it higher based on the amazing visuals and presentation. I'm a big fan of the original game, and I avoided every spoiler of Part 2 before going in. So the story took me by complete surprise and I loved every bit of it. It surely is different than expected, but in a good way. This is hands down the best game of the generation. The story really hits hard. Every PS4 owner should experience this!
6112) I absolutely loved this game. The whole story shows how violence begets violence and ultimately leads to more personal suffering. I was a huge fan of the 1st game and think this is just as good in another way. I went into Part 2 absolutely appalled that I'd have to play as Abbey after seeing her torture and kill Joel. I couldn't imagine ever empathizing with her, but her flashbacks and the little interactions she has with all her friends (playing fetch with Alice hurt knowing I had to kill that puppy as Ellie) really humanized her for me.,,By getting to play as both Ellie and Abbey, the game offers opposing perspectives that really capture the gravity of the choices each of those two main characters makes and the consequences that follow from those choices. Basically, I loved this game and highly recommend it.
6113) A fantastic follow up that manages to bring a totally new story and tone to the table while still falling in line with the original's cinematic storytelling and gameplay. Dark and brutal, yet with real heart and a kind message underneath the surface.,The "review bombing" present in the average user score is a pathetic mix of people unwilling to accept a new story, and incels who are afraid of feminist and LGBTQ+ themes. Play the game for yourself with an open mind for a unique experience.
6114) I like this dark **** game man! It breaks my heart actually but in the end i understand why ellie didn't kill abby. Vengeance is not the answer at all. Back Arthur morgan says "Being revenge in game is full of ****
6115) Gooood game, i dont what will be in the end but now its good. Atleast first 10 hours best, maybe last 10 hours would be worst. I dont know...
6116) Severely great game.  Extremely cinematic, complicated character development, dire tone, tense pacing.
6117) Cool game, passed with cool emotions, cool new characters. 10 out of 10 .,Thanks Naughty Dog.
6118) Amazing gameplay AND story. An emotional rollercoaster that left me wanting more.
6119) The last of us part II is a amazing game and one of the best games I have ever played. Please read the reviews that are at the 9s and 10s because all of these people that are rating it 0 and 1 are just people that played the first hour of the game and saw that one of the most loved characters in the game dies very early on in the game. People are also giving it low scores because Ellie, the other main character in the game is a lesbian which should not be a problem as if you played the dlc and the first game it shows that she is a lesbian. Anyways the game is amazing and is easily a front runner for game of the year. It starts with the word around you as it looks amazing and there is so much detail in even the buildings you can’t go into. Also there is many different groups you can fight. And just when you think you know the story it switches it up and you start to play from another perspective. This game really is showing that somebody that you might think iscdomebody is bad it switches you and shows there just like you just looking at it from a different perspective. This is a great game and I think everybody should give it a play the game.
6120) I am a cross-platform player but I often prefer playing on PC, just to let you know that... no, I'm not a fanboy.,,The game is SPECTACULARLY BEAUTIFUL. After 32 hours I finished the game and I was unable to find a single flaw. Any criticism made about this game is senseless and often becomes ridiculous, proving obvious problems with things like accepting homosexuality as a normal thing. These people really disgust me, it's absurd how stupid they can be.,,You MUST play this game if you really consider yourself a gamer. A true masterpiece and a PERFECT sequel to the first The Last of Us. (that I loved a lot too, but of course Part II is WAY better in every regard)
6121) Game is incredible. A narrative with twists and turns that are unpredictable. Locations diverse and specific. Play it all the way through! Yes it's violent, but it is a Horror survival game.
6122) This game made me feel things I had never felt before. The story is provocative, challenges you to try and handle difficult emotions, takes you to very dark, uninviting places, both literally and metaphorically, and invites you to try challenge your previous assumptions.,Yes,things happen that are just plain sad and hard to accept, and having to play abby is emotionally hard at first, but if you do so open minded, it could surprise you.,Gameplay was improved, graphics are top notch for consoles, the exploration feels rewarding, stealth is pretty cool, AI is a bit better, accessibility options are the best ever and enemy variety is pretty nice now.,Honestly, haven't been able to play anything else after finishing this game, still digesting it.,And please, don't buy into that crap people have been saying. There are legitimate concerns and criticisms, but overall, people are just crying the story is not what they wanted. It had no obligation to be so.
6123) A harrowing but incredible experience. I loved every minute of this game. Naughty dog has crafted a masterpiece and achieved the impossible task of making a game better than the first. It’s also the most gorgeous game I have ever seen. The detail is exceptional. The story and it’s characters were complex and well written. It’s such a shame that this game has received all this unwarranted hate. It’s dark, bold and deeply human. It’s my new favourite game and I can’t wait to play it again.
6124) I have finally finished my first playthrough of The Last of Us Part 2 and I will do my bit to restore the good name of this title.,Let's get the ugly little details out of the way first. Yes, there are some lengthy bits in that story and yes this is partly due to the massiv environments to explore, which can take you out of it a bit. But... It sooooo pays of in the end. This game is one of the only ones getting real emotions out of me and these lengthy periods contributed to that as well, as the dialog between the characters while exploring is so rich and believable. And although the story sure is devisive it all is in line with what Naughty Dog was setting out to do and it worked time and time again. All that is supported by a superb gameplay and smart as hell AI.,MUST PLAY
6125) this game is excellent on every level. must play. on every level means every level.
6126) Love it or hate it, but TLoU II is game of the generation. It’s not perfect, but nobody does it like Naughty Dog and Rockstar anyway
6127) Let met start by saying, everything you probably heard about this game is wrong.,People are angry just because stuff that you don't want to happen, happen. The writers are clearly telling a story, and a more realistic one in such a world, rather than having everything be rainbows and sunshine. This is not a game for someone looking for everything to be right all of the time.,The story is beautiful, and brutal. It got me thinking more than once about what I was doing, and what I did up to that moment.,,Game mechanics - 10/10. Improved them from the previous game. Fighting is very fun, the amount of settings is unbelievable, including a multi layered difficulty system (select hard enemies, easy resources, for example).,,If you liked the first one for the authenticity and the story, then play this one as well.
6128) The Last of us part ll is an amazing game with an emotional story I do not see why it’s getting so much hate. For example Joel dies within one or two hours into the game and people are mad what do you think Joel was supposed to do fight off all those people he would have died trying. You do play part of the game as Abby with killed Joel and get to learn about her backstory and her storyline there are two storylines going Ellie’s storyline and Abby storyline. It was very emotional one of the best game I have ever played and not two many games make me cry but this one did
6129) The game is masterpiece. It is very good and real not a game but an art object.,I dont want to ruin the plot with spoilers, but it is fantastic story. Quite logical and so on. A little bit too long and gameplay is only 8 not 10, so better to play 2 hours but not whole day as me.
6130) I completed the game last night and gave myself a bit of time to reflect on it.  It is apparent to me that the people leaving negative reviews either haven’t played the game or are homophobic.  Yes there were bits of the story that were upsetting; that is the sign of a good story if it impacts the player.  The ending, without going into spoilers,  ends on a less ambiguous note than the original game.  From a gameplay perspective Naughty Dog also should receive credit;  they have used modern technology to refine the great gameplay from the first game and build upon it further.  Approximately half way through the game an event happens that forces you to adapt and a change the way you play.  For an hour or two I was unable to rely on some of the stealth tactics I had been used to up to that point; this kept gameplay fresh and the challenge exciting.  Before long I had extra tools at my disposal to play stealthily but in a different manner to the preceding 12 or so hours.  The player is put into fresh and new encounters through the course of the game which is no mean feat across it’s run time (I saw credits roll at 25 hours and 53 minutes and collected 198 collectibles).  I took a dive straight back in in order to find missing collectibles and achieve that Platinum trophy, which also seems very achievable for anyone.  Ignore the low user score, this game is a must play.
6131) I was going to give 8/10 or 7/10 since the story was not great but gameplay and graphics were amazing, but haters made me sick so here it goes 10/10. Most of these users who voted probably haven't even played the game.
6132) Contradictory ending, this game is cruel, but it's a certain story and so it should be perceived, so it causes hatred for certain characters and then you are forced to play for them and it's also cruel.
6133) I absolutely loved this game. Amazing story and actually thought-provoking.
6134) No game other than TLOU part 1 has made me as emotional as this one. Second best game I've ever played. Seems like the people disliking this game wanted an exact copy of the last of us. Go in with an open mind and allow yourself to experience the story thats being told, rather than the story you want to be told
6135) Nothing to say, just one of the best games I've ever played!!,I never felt something like that playing games, it's amazing!!
6136) This game is Bold AF! Story line about a cycle of vengeance.,Story is focused on Ellie and Abby (now being the 2 main protagonists).,Naughty Dog did a wonderful job on giving 2 different perspectives on the same matter, with the beginning of the game being very Extreme with Joel’s death in my opinion this serves as the main fuel for Ellie’s action. These actions would be crucial for story line and also character development.,Gameplay and graphics are the best so far on the “consoles scene”.,So even if story line isn’t appealing enough for you, the gameplay is definitely fun.,Congrats to ND and Neil Druckmann
6137) The Last of Us was one of my absolute favorite games ever. So naturally I was excited to play Part 2 when it was announced. I hate spoilers so I avoided any and all trailers, reviews and leaks and it paid off. The Last of Us Part 2 surpassed the first and was a fantastic story and game. I can understand the feelings of some people being upset with events that happened in the story that Naughty Dog delivered but to me it was amazing. I was connected to Joel and what happened to him was gut wrenching and tragic and you want the people responsible to pay. However ND creates conflict in you by putting you in control of Abby and you get to see a great character development driven story. She’s not this evil, revenge driven brat that you originally thought and it’s so good. I was extremely happy with the outcome. Sure I miss Joel, but he is not absent from the game. I highly recommend it after you play the first. Don’t judge it before you play it, which is what most people are doing on here. It’s worth the time and money to see such a great story with great characters. And just like Game of Thrones, don’t get too attached to anyone.
6138) One of the best games of the generation, fantastic writing and great twists !
6139) This game is a masterpiece, Naughty Dog really did something amazing with this game not only is it better than the original game in every way, its also the best game of this Generation.,,From the Story to the Character development, voice acting, graphics and of course gameplay this game is perfect, i loved the new cast the story is told in a beautiful way.,,ill make you a deal ND.. keep making games this good ill keep buying them day 1
6140) A great game with great story , a phenomenal narrative and intense adventure I love it so much
6141) Gameplay: 9/10,Story: 10/10,Graphics 10/10,Replay Value: High,,After playing Part 1, my entire viewpoint on video game narratives changed forever. I've always been the kind of guy that liked, puzzles, shooting, and SFX. But all that changed when I experienced the first game.,,After seven years of waiting for the second game, I can safely say that TLoUP2 exceeded all expectations I could have ever accumulated in all that time I waited.,,The story takes you for the wildest emotional ride you never thought you could get from a video game. Where Part 2 walked, Part 2 ran. The devs at ND made some INSANE choices that only made me respect their work even more. With bold twists and turns at every corner, you can never be more than two steps ahead in the plot. This story is going to change the way I see games just like the first one did.,,The game-play is riveting as one could expect. There are a lot more options when facing enemy encounters, keeping you on the edge of your seat and the brim of your mind. Nothing is more satisfying than getting though dozens of enemy without taking a single bullet.,,I wasn't spoiled by leaks(fortunately), and it seems like the ones that were and still complain about the game seem close-minded and/or they haven't played the game. Love is love, there's passion in the little things, and this game, when played, will give you an outlook you never knew you could possess.
6142) Wow! I expect this to be good because I was a huge fan of the first one, but this exceeded all expectations. I have nothing bad to say about this, it easily became one of my favorite games ever.,I was shocked many times, I cried many times, but this game is just so emotional and raw! The graphics are the best currently out there (the facial mo-cap was simply amazing!) the voice acting is spot on, the story and characters are better than expected.,Truly a masterpiece!
6143) Don't usually leave reviews, but seeing what's happening with this game I feel like I should. I think it should he noted that the game is going to be divisive. It's not an easy story, but it is a strong story well told. Many of the reviews you are seeing here are posted in bad faith by people who haven't actually played/finished the game and are reacting to a bullet point list of the events. But a list of events is not a story, and I believe if many of these reviewers experienced the story, they would feel differently. It is a difficult game. It takes place in a brutal world and things happen that you may not want to happen. The gameplay is exceptional and tense, and the graphics are as close to photo-real as this generation will get. I was completely riveted by the game from beginning to end, and look forward to one day playing it again. I took a point off because, after a certain point, the misery of it all is laid on a bit thick and it can be a bit of a struggle to carry on. I feel like they went a little too far on making the point they want to make, but that's subjective and you may find you don't have a problem with it. I would recommend playing the game, even if you read the leaks and we're angered by them.
6144) I made an account on Metacritic just to give this game, the best game I've every played, a 10. It is hands down the best video game I've encountered in my lifetime and is also one of the best cinematic and overall entertainment experiences I've had. The combat, world building, storyline, stealth mechanics, graphics, dialogue and acting are all top-notch. The negative reviews appear to be overwhelmingly fueled by hatespeech and brigading. This game will set a high bar for the entire gaming industry for many years to come. The "controversy" will only add to its legacy as a noteworthy achievement on the level of some of the most important films in entertainment history.
6145) Absolutely the best game I'd EVER played. Full of details, best history I ever saw on a game, it shows us how the humanity is going in a bad way and how rotten it is actually. We can see that through the haters of the game.
6146) do not listen to those who speak of a game that they did not go through. just complete the game if you can
6147) Fantastic graphics with the gameplay of the first game polished to a mirror sheen.,the story while not the most original is well executed and like the first game is carried by the characters within it, while some risky decisions were made throughout the story i felt they really paid off.,the game joins the ranks of bloodborne and god of war as being the best of this generation for me.
6148) A masterpiece! Beautiful gamin experience. Thoroughly enjoyed the game and I felt very engaged from the start to the end.
6149) Truly an incredible, very theatrical and emotional experience. Sexist trolls can **** right the **** off.
6150) 2 things:,- don't listen to the haters, if you are lucky enough to read this before everything else, just go play, even if you will not like the story the graphics and gameplay are one of the best ever.,,- don't look at this as a regular game, where you are the hero and save the world. this is a piece of entertainment that have complex story telling that doesn't exist in any other game. try to loosen your mind, and you will see one of the greatest stories ever told.,,I am not rating 10/10 to balance the haters, am genuinely think this is one of the greatest games/stories out there.
6151) This is a master piece and such a new step for video games. The people who trashing talking the shouldn’t be allowed to speak they must’ve not played the game or are reviewers who are **** for no reason about the choice of story, shame on all of them. This really is the most beautiful, most detailed game and most cinematic game ever made. Naughty dog did it once again.
6152) Why people enjoy hating on this game so much, I don't know. What I do know is that this game, while it has flaws, is nothing short of amazing. The level of detail to little things that don't even need to be there, the heart-clenching dialogue and performances, and overall feel of the game is amazing. That’s not even to touch on the amazing combat in this game. While playing the games you can feel the passion that the devs put into this game to make it what it is. I'm sure half of the negative reviewers never even touched the game. I don't understand how someone could give this game a 1. It doesn't make sense. I loved this game. Don't listen to all the hate, buy it, and try it for yourself before hating on an excellent AAA sequel to a beloved game.
6153) Do not read about this game. Play it. Didn't think it would be possible, but story, game-play, mechanics, and music have all truly outdone the first game. What a brilliantly heartbreaking journey this game is.
6154) I never played anything like this game, I spent forty hours to get through the game ... After reading the news about the criticism of the players that came down, I was upset and stunned. Why? Emotional involvement, graphics, characters, plot ... I definitely recommend this product.
6155) I don’t understand why some people are attacking this game. It’s a masterpiece of details, emotional power and gripping action. Just get it and enjoy it. Also it’s no more bleak and gritty than countless other dystopian action games, plus it has intelligence and heart. I loved it.
6156) The game is fantastic. Full of details and emotions. I personally think that is gonna be te game of the year.
6157) Its an almost perfect game. Most people are upset because they killed Joel, but thats not the point. Everyone can die in TLoU universe because they are not superhuman. Joel and Tommy made a mistake and that costed Joels life. Its hard, and it made me cry, but happens.,,Most people say that they would preffer just another TLoU with Joel and Ellie being happy. Thats not TLoU and it never was. If you want that, write fanfic. They told the story they wanted to tell and its a sad and depressing story, but that doesnt make it worse.,,Lastly, f*ck those comments talking about a political agenda, lgbt agenda or any kind of agenda. You are just homophobic an transphobic, get over it.
6158) İts Just a incredible game stoth is awesome for me, i dunno why ppl say its bad
6159) TLOU2 makes you uncomfortable with its decisions, which imo is the best part. You really need to play the game for yourself and go through the ride with an open mind. Questioning all decisions, even from your beloved characters, is part of the game.
6160) If you miss this game because of the spoiler and prejudice, it will be such a regret.
6161) 9.5 / 10,,Bunch of angry homekids that never have lived life and never left their mama house will be mad about the game. Others - will enjoy.,,Don't listen to anyone, play the game yourself,,In war, both sides believes they're the good guys. And TLOU 2 is all about that. It erases boundries of good and evil and shows you that at the end of the day there is a conflict of interests & emotional reactions.,,The game makes you question yourself. People don't like that. We want a story with a happy ending. Typical Hollywood approach which built an army of consumers who remind you line of people in Starbucks. These people are not ready for tragic, dark & authentic conversation.,,TLOU shows you the nature of a human kind, it shows how ugly we are and how we're not very different from each other. Emotions often take control over rational. It's been that way, it will stay this way.,,There is nothing else to say, just play the god damn game
6162) The backlash for this game makes no sense to me. This game for me exceeds almost everything they did in the first game and stands as naughty dogs strongest title to date.
6163) It's a great game. Rruiweb said so. Nuff said. Also, I love president moon jae in. Glacia **** **** porn pic and etc.
6164) **** off the people who didn't even play and judged by the spoilers. Its a masterpiece,A perfect and much deserved sequel to another masterpiece. Just go for it guys we waited a long time for this and its totally worth it!
6165) Joel's actions from St. Mary's Hospital were filled with consequences that were not addressed in the first game's story, but perfectly setup for the second game. This sequel explores how those actions in that hospital had impacted many people, therefore a consequence was revenge (Abby), which led to more revenge (Ellie). If any person thought Joel would not die in this game they were blind to the first game's ending. People bash this story and yet at the time of writing only 14% completed the game, the story, as I summarized it, is great. The game play is fantastic, it continues on the original's and adds more of what we love. Graphics are insanely beautiful, gore is detailed and horrific. This game is great, simply put.
6166) I think it does have a great story and a good character development, just doesnt accomplish all the people desires because they just want to see happiness and cuteness and thats not what the game wanna tell about it
6167) How it’s supposed to end perfect story and perfect game as I expected it to be.
6168) This is not a game for our snowflake generation, who likes to live in a fantasy of everything being happy and nice; expecting our heroes to do the right thing all the time.,Last of us 2 is a piece of art, and the goal of creating art is not to impress, but to express. Kuddos to Naughty dog for making the tough choices and showing us how flawed human beings really are.
6169) The Last Of us 2 is a masterpiece. The story, the gameplay, the soundtrack and the design. Those hating on it, are pathetic trolls that haven't even played it, or are just so dumb they don't understand the story from both perspectives. The Story focuses on Revenge, and what revenge can cost you.
6170) Easily one of the greatest stories ever told. Don’t listen to negative reviews. Those people are little children that have brains the size of a pea. The story is not perfect but great and very emotional
6171) ok last half of the story was horrible but i am sure this is not deserving 4.5 cause first half was a masterpiece.
6172) let me just start by saying i finished the game and didn't only play 3 hours then bashed it because a certain character dies. From the start we knew this was going to be ellies revenge story so for everyone out there that said we were misled or lied to is just upset about what happened in the game. trailers do not mean everything is happening in real life could be flashbacks or dream sequence which was the case. This game is the best looking game ive ever played from a graphical and mechanical stand point. If theres one thing i would change about the game it would be not having to play as a certain someone just didn't do it for me but other than that game was and is spectacular. Don't bash something you didn't play and don't let negative reviews stop you from playing.
6173) Anyone legitimately saying this is less than a 7 out of 10 is not worth listening to, since they are just hating on the game to circlejerk.
6174) I believe people can have different opinions on this one. To me, personally - this is certainly a masterpiece. I can surely understand how this game is not for everyone and how some people might find it less enjoyable, but 0 out of 10...Are you for real people? The only possible explanation to me is that it's just a stupid mob hate. To someone Joel's death can be justified and to someone it is a betrayal, but please try to at least respect the love and hard work that has surely been put into this.
6175) I thought the story was divisive, but I absolutely enjoyed it ! The gameplay was very smooth, and I thoroughly thought it was a masterpiece all around ! It's another Naughty Dog classic!!
6176) The most multidimensional piece of storytelling in history. The level of depth is unreal. The last of us part 2 might be the best game I will have ever played. Thank you Neil Druckmann  and Naughty dog, for sharing this masterpiece with the world. ✊
6177) Anyone who gives this game a 0 is NOT legit. Even if you hated the story, or the characters, or the gameplay, there is no way this game deserves a 0, or is "the worst game ever".,I also see a lot of homophobes/transphobes out there hating on this game for having lesbian/trans characters. Let me just tell you that even if you do not like such themes, they are barely in there at all, it's all good.,,That said, I personally really loved this game! I did not read any reviews or the leaks or anything, so I went into it blind as can be, and it was shocking and brutal and I loved every second of it!,This game really made me think about who all these people are and what their reasons and motives are. If you want a game to blindly shoot and kill stuff, just play something else! There's a lot of story here and things that can be quite hard to stomach. It's definitely not an easy game to just play and have a good time with. It's a game that will haunt you forever, in the best ways.,Much love to the developers, you did an AMAZING job, all my expectations were exceeded!
6178) This perfect 10 isn't to offset the numerous 0's that were review bombed. Its a 10 because its as close to perfect as a game can get. It might not be a story for everyone, but to say its anything less than a masterpiece is just silly. This game moved me in ways no game has before, and that includes the original.  As soon as I was done, i restated.  Amazing.
6179) It's actually an very sad and amazing game. the Part 2 is all about humanity and about love. I was thinking after the death of Joel. Ellie would just went to fury and wouldn't be able to make it in the end. however, Abby choose to forgiveness. If we say that she killed Joel is for his father, she let Ellie go twice proves she wanted to keep the hope of human. Because as long as Ellie is alive, human would still have hope to overcome this virus. Of course, after completing the game, I feel Ellie actually got PTSD even before Joel's death. She can't move out the cage of memories. She still wants to do something to help humankind and make her life meaningful.,,I can see the big vision of this game. actually, in the world of last of us. everyone is the last. they could have been dead at anytime (P.S. I wanted to quit the game after Joel's death, but I figure out maybe it's just part of the world. over 5 years after Boston, people might change lots like the real people in the world. ). so, in that weird period of world, how people could keep their love, their kindness and their humanity is what the story trying to tell us. It's a great game. In the end of the story, I think Ellie might go searching for the fireflies and may want to do something for the virus research and help out the humankind (I am just guessing). I think if Naughty Dog would make the Part 3, I would like to get a collection bundle instead of the standard one. This story means a lot in the real world as well. Thank you Naughty Dog!!
6180) Incredible stealth survival gameplay. A story that challenges players but also expands on what the series is while doing great service to it's existing characters.
6181) Wonderful. Amazing. Stunning.,Thank you Neil, thank you Naughty Dog for the best story of current generation.
6182) Great game. Good work by the talented people at Naughty Dog. 10/10. Ps no more crunch!
6183) If anyone out there was waiting for a happy ending, I don't know what game have they been playing. As the story evolves and more information is given to you, it is possible to picture how things will end. But if you really liked the first game, you can't say that the characters acted different to what you may expect from them in every single situation they were put on.,,You want revenge, you want Ellie to get revenge, but Ellie did get revenge. She destroyed Abby's world. Abby was left torn to pieces BY Ellie. Ellie killed every single one of her loved ones. But as the game tries to tell you, is revenge really the way?,,After Tommy's visit and Ellie's visions of the past, tormenting her, It was obvious that she couldn't leave things like that, She couldn't have lived not knowing what would have happened if she went to the very end.,,The conclusion is that it wasn't necessary to kill her, She realized it too late.,,Yes, she lost 2 fingers, yes, she returned to an empty home. But we got to know Dina, and DIna has a strong character and she was not the kind of woman to sit tight and wait for Ellie. She couldn't do that to herself.,,In the end, are we left with unanswered questions? Yes, we were. But wasn't it the same way at the end of the first part?,,Other than the controversial plot of the game. You cannot deny, it is impossible to say, that the game plays your emotions to the edge. I felt the sadness and urge to cry when Joel died. I felt the anger and need for revenge. The need for revenge drove me through the entire game. I felt outrageous when the game was presenting me Ellie as a boss, and asking me to hurt her as Abby, I let Ellie kill Abby no less than 20 times before I took action. But here is the genius, when you see what you think is the end of the game, you are so mad that Ellie left things like that, only to get proved wrong when you see what revenge costs.,,You laugh, you cry, you get angry. The range of emotions this game makes you feel is proof of its level of development and greatness.,,The game play, graphics, sound quality and soundtrack are just freaking phenomenal. I'm speechless. But this is Naughty Dog we are talking about. So we were not expecting less. Gustavo Santaolalla, Chapeau! Hats off!,,So hate me haters, but I freaking loved the game.
6184) IT is a very good game i love it and all the story is so necesary... this can be the best game of the year  i wait for the part 3 or one Dlc
6185) A dismal and dark sequel to one of the best games ever which explores the darkest human emotions excellently. The story, whilst subversive and bleak, is a realistic outcome for the events of the first game and offers a fascinating examination of the role of subjectivity of these characters. The gameplay is excellent, with amazing character animations which are gory and frightening, but to a realistic level. The graphics and setting are also top tier. Overall this is one of my favourite games ever, on par with RDR2; no game has ever made me feel this level of emotion, even if these emotions aren’t the happy and peaceful ones we wanted for the characters we grew to love in the first game.
6186) Finished it today and this is masterpiece. Story is truly good and full of emotional moments, there are a few problems with the scenario,  but it can be forgiven, gameplay is exciting, world is beautiful and has a lot of details. It is one of the best games on this console generations an the best PS4 exclusive in my opinion.
6187) So I just finished playing The Last of Us Part 2 a few days ago, and I can honestly say this series will go down as not just one of my most treasured games of all time, but pieces of media/art in general. This game was emotionally exhausting to get through, and I've been a wreck for days, but damn if it isn't one of the most amazing journeys I've ever been though, without even leaving my home. The father/daughter dynamic between Joel and Ellie is one of the most beautiful and heartbreaking relationships I've ever witnessed, very rarely have I felt such a strong connection to fictional characters, they eventually start to become as real to you as those you love who are actually alive. It's probably a weird and seemingly ridiculous concept for some people to grasp, but I guess you can't always understand something unless you've experienced it firsthand. Anyways, This game deserves none of the hate it's received, it's a daring, dark, hauntingly beautiful narrative that touches on loss, grief, hatred and the true nature of revenge, and it's a hard pill to swallow at times.,I can't recommend this game enough, but be warned, it's **** heavy.,,"All the promises at sundown, I meant them like the rest"
6188) The game is fabolous, tgeh controller, the narrative, just haters are so ridicolous with the narrative.
6189) May not actually be a 10 but it's pretty close and considering that everyone review bombed it without finishing it, I figure me giving it a 10 is equivalent to someone giving it a 1 without finishing.,Story takes a lot of risks and goes places that I haven't seen in a game before. After the story of the first game I'm surprised that people are upset with how things went.
6190) Honestly one of the best games I’ve ever played. it’s an emotional rollercoaster and it’ll make you feel a lot whether you want to or not, but in the end its all worth it to see how the story progresses and the character development. It’s not supposed to be a black and white game which is why I think a lot of people get upset at it, but it is 100% undeserving of the hate it’s getting whether you like the direction of the story or not. Would recommend to anyone who is open minded, and if you aren’t, then this isn’t the game for you and instead of whining, you should find something that is.
6191) The game's a masterclass in just deserts as a concept.,,Just play it.,,My main issues with the game is that you start over half way through it, and have to level up an entirely different character from nothing. It would've been easier if the game had cut between these two characters at different story points, but I understand why they didn't. For this reason, the game's pacing drags a bit but otherwise it's a perfect game. I'd have gived it a 9 in reality but until the metacritic score balances out I'll give it a 10.,,You already know the game's graphics and gameplay are good so lets talk story. Here's my points that disagree with most of the concerns here. Spoilers below:,,The game is incredibly self aware of the fact that it's a game. It knows you dislike Abby, and gives you more than one opportunity to watch her die a brutal, horrific death. It turns the death mechanic you try to avoid into a sick and twisted revenge mechanic. It's fitting that you face off against an incredibly terrifying and overpowered boss as Abby yet Tommy and Ellie are far more challenging opponents. You can survive your first encounter with the big boss but you won't survive your first encounter with Ellie.,,People don't feel like the game has the same level of chemistry that made the first game magic--and are upset that they didn't 'like' Dina. The game doesn't want you to like Dina, in fact it goes out of it's way to make you only care about one thing: revenge for Joel. Dina is the only thing Ellie has and her life takes a backseat to killing every single one of Abby's friends with the goal of killing Abby. Even playing as Abby, watching her story--you still want Abby to die. That one good deed saving Lev doesn't matter if you don't get your just deserts.,,The end of the game comes to a close with the most heroic thing you've ever done in either game--you free an entire colony of slaves to overtake their oppressors and you don't care at all. You're just there to kill Abby. Just deserts. You find her hanging from a crucifix starved and beaten after months as a slave. When she finally has her beaten and bruised beyond recognition, leaving her in worse shape than Ellie was left at the end of the first fight, she let's her go. She had to learn to forgive this woman, and she realizes in that moment she has put the fear of god in this woman. It's harrowing.,,The comparisons of the game's story akin to The Last Jedi are way overblown. In The Last Jedi, the characters from the previous trilogy are left behind, barely respected and make decisions that are completely out of character. Luke Skywalker is turned into a joke. The Last of Us 2 respects it's characters and puts them in believable situations. You get plenty of time with the characters from the first game acting as you'd expect. There is a cause and effect for every decision they make, and the game makes sense.,,It's hard to watch people who have legitimate criticisms of the game thrown in with antisemitic, homophobic and racist dialogue, even if you truly hated the story I'd find it hard to take seriously a review under 5 or 6.,,Play the game, see it for yourself.
6192) I though this game was a masterpiece. I was surprised to find out that people took issue with LGBTQ+ references - which I found to be touching and affecting, but less surprised that some did not agree with the second act. I initially found this a jarring shift, but after an hour I was fully immersed and onboard. It completely changed my perception of my earlier game time. My one minor quibble is that perhaps it would have flowed better in a traditional chronological order - perhaps by playing the second act first - but ultimately it doesn’t matter when considered as a whole. I hope I don’t have to wait another seven years to see another game of its like. Brilliant.
6193) People giving 0 because the studio does crunch? Come on, I do crunch myself at my job to be able to buy my games. It's a great game, maybe the story didn't compare to the first game but the gameplay is great. The graphics and the setting no other game has it.  You may have some bought specialized reviews but many user reviews are so stupid and full of crap, pure hatred or jealousy. I read comments from game designers who are amazed by the physics of the game,I bought my ps4 only for this game and I don't regret it.
6194) Its a really good game, most of the negative comments just say something like "Gay company" or something like that, and they really dont play enough hours to really appreciate the work and the GOOD history that has this amazing game, I dont say it's better that the first part, because I think their are equally good as games, so keep doing games like this because WE love you're games.,But this game has some bad things like the hours you have to play it, there are some places that aren't necessary to the history, make it more long because of that, but the rest it's verry good.
6195) This is an amazing game. TLOU and TLOU2 are definitively my favorite pieces of media. Naughty Dog are redefining a medium.,The story is BRUTAL and it often elicited emotions that made me genuinely uncomfortable, but the payoff was super cathartic. The gameplay felt great, it has everything good from the first one and a few added mechanics that made fights feel really fluid. Needless to say, the graphics were phenomenal. The amount of detail made me want to take my time and explore every bit of the levels. The puzzles were definitely light in comparison with TLOU, but the ones that stood out were surprisingly natural. Figuring out a solution kind of felt like it wasn't even a fabricated puzzle at all and I just happened to find a way to solve a problem naturally.,It's crazy how some people are putting this game on blast. Reading a bunch of negative reviews I get the impression that these people either didn't even play the game or are just salty about one certain plot point and refuse to enjoy a narrative that makes them feel complex emotions. I feel sorry for everyone that can't appreciate how absurdly good this game is, both as a spectacular sequel to a game that should have been impossible to follow, and just as an awesome game in its own right.
6196) It’s by far the greatest game of all time! A big step up from the first game, great gameplay & a great story.
6197) Before posting this I want to preface that I have a been a fan of the series since I purchased a PlayStation in 2015. This game blew me away, not as much for just the gameplay, but more the realism and compelling stories that I feel are both lacking from video games in this era. I find that this is the best place to share not just my thoughts, but the philosophy and themes that carried the game’s message (in my opinion):,1: The Cycle of Violence This one is fairly self-explanatory, but Ellie’s final decision to spare Abby (and Lev) ends a generational cycle of killing and pain, dating back to the “parents” of both the game’s protagonists (Joel/Dr. Anderson). This opportunity for growth was hinted at and ultimately failed in TLOU, but serve the driving plot point of TLOU2.,2: Parenthood I personally did not pick up on this theme until the epilogue, despite it being right underneath my nose for a solid 1/2 of the story. Take a second to think about the dichotomy between Ellie-Joel and Abby-Lev in. What did our “parent figure” do differently? The same? Much like Joel, Abby ends the lives of MANY to save the one life of Lev. How does this make her any better than Joel doing the same for Ellie? Was this decision even redeemable by either of them in the first place? The game’s final cliffhanger provides you, the player, the ability to envision how Abby and Lev’s relationship will progress, or be damaged, as they move into the “Jackson” phase which put a rift between Ellie and Joel. Additionally, Ellie rejected the opportunity to be a proper parent to Jesse Jr. Was this because of her PTSD from Seattle, or her fear that she would ultimately make the same mistakes as Joel?,3: The Animalistic Decay of Humanity Less apparent than #1 here, but the comparison of the game’s protagonists to animals evokes the decaying state of society, and thereby, human nature: Joel: The Owl Throughout the game, Joel is referenced (most often by Jesse and Tommy) as an “old bird”. The imagery of the owl on Joel’s coffee cup and in Ellie’s journal drawings also cement this point. Joel is wise, slow, and strikes viciously, prone to fits of anger (Ellie’s rescue). Ellie: the Wolf Specifically in TLOU, many NPC’s refer to Ellie as “the wolf girl”. This is brought full circle in TLOU2, where Ellie meets her literal match in the WLF’s. Ellie is controlled by her negative emotion, and it enables her to commit terrible (often unnecessary) acts of violence. It is also noteworthy when Abby/Lev approach the hospital to retrieve materials for Yara’s surgery, Lev remarks “Wolves never look up, only forward.” Was this meant only about the WLF? Abby: The Oxen Abby’s direct and unforgiving personality are put in direct contrast to her muscular body when referred to as “the lady built like an ox” by the trader who provides intel to Tommy in the period after Seattle. This comparison does not carry as much weight as the others, but cements the point that these animal-based comparisons show the decaying humanity of the game’s core cast.,Finally, while it is less of a philosophical theme and more of a fact, I think it is important to mention that while the TLOU series are technically “zombie” games, the real enemy is rarely ever the actual infected, instead more often human nature of the dangers of the self.
6198) I haven’t completed it yet, so hopefully the ending is even close as good to the original, but so far technically the best game I’ve ever played and the narrative, although sad, is so gripping and I simultaneously want to play it all and make it last longer!
6199) I can't understand a person who plays this game and says it's bad ... This game is just incredible !! One of the best.
6200) Can’t wait to play this despite what the haters say looks amazing and things can’t always have happy endings
6201) Best story-driven game I've ever played. I have never had a form of media make me feel the way this did. I felt the peace of Jackson at the beginning. I felt Ellie's pain and subsequent rage when her father figure was killed. Surprisingly, I felt Abby's heartbreak when she saw her father dead on the hospital floor, knowing that 7 years ago, I, as a player, am responsible for it. Most of the characters are fantastic. I grew to empathize with some that I hated, and disliked some of the characters that I loved. All through Naughty Dog's masterful storytelling. From a technical standpoint, I don't think we'll see something on this level until a sequel to God of War (2018) or GTA 6 should that ever created. The environments, animations, A.I., everything about the gameplay is fantastic. The large open areas down to the darkest rooms all have such great attention to detail that aids in fully immersing you into the world. The fact that playing as 2 different characters felt so different was amazing. Ellie feels agile, swift in her movements and kills. Abby on the other hand feels like a wrecking ball, capable of barreling through an enemy that's in her way. All of the weapons have a distinct feel, especially the melee weapons, which  make you feel every swing you make. This game was everything I wanted it to be, even though it was nothing like what I expected. I understand why others are disappointed, but you have to go into it with an open mind. If you do, the experience will be something you never forget and it won't be matched in a very, very long time.
6202) Just as the first title was the best game on Ps3. Last of Us 2 is undoubtedly the best game on Ps4. Great story, clever puzzles, well scripted action and big scares.
6203) I loved this game! Why? First of all, the graphics, environments, sounds and animations are really good and creating an awesome atmosphere. But only a few people would deny this.,The story is the controversial subject. If you want a simple action adventure story like the other millions out there (Uncharted, Resident Evil, Tomb Raider) with some twists and an ‘the hero saves the day’ ending/atmosphere you will be heavily disappointed.,If you don’t have a problem with some bad feelings and a crown-up story, then could this something for you. Sure, not every little part of the story is perfect but the game (the story tellers) had the guts to show consequences if someone kills another, the beginning and ending of a spiral of violence, traumatized persons and Ellie who lost almost everything cause she devote herself to vengeance.,In the end it is nice to see that video games beginning to fulfill their role as cultural property.
6204) I enjoyed that game and it’s captivating to see new places, more loot and most important both scenarios, at the one point it was so thrilling, but the end is sad and memorable, hope we’ll get the part 3 somehow.,That rat king was awesome, the new type of styles and fight strategies, the hole story and the final fight that left me with my jaw on the floor. Sometimes it gets so emotional. Great job.
6205) For me, the best game i've ever played. Probably the game of the generation and one of the best in history.,Everything in the game is perfect. The combat, physics, graphics, were perfect. The scenarios were almost perfect.,The only think i will l change, it may will be the duration of the days, specially when you are playing as Abby.,A Good end, that let the door open to some DLC'S or a new game, finishing the path with Ellie.
6206) One of the most intense and thrilling gaming experiences I ever had. Fluid and smooth gameplay together with an exciting new approach on how to tell an emotional story in a Video game.,Justice to this great franchise, well done! Thanks to everybody involved! - not for small mindet people.
6207) I "beat" the game. I don't know if that's the right term. You don't beat it. It beats you in concussive jolts you don't wish to strike, the alternative choices you desperately want these people to make, and through the entirety of the journeys of 2 characters who are, in the end, 2 sides of the same coin. Both look into the darkness, but one is hoping to find the light of grace that was taken from her, and the other wishes to find it in the eternal shadows that would have given her existence meaning and sense. Both mock religious martyrs, but that is exactly what they become...except both are martyrs to a congregation of one in their own empty temples. The other characters, in fact, the whole word preaches to them, but they are like Trojan soldiers when Cassandra spoke. They hear, and ignore, the prophet's dire warnings of war without end, and victory at all cost...and cost it must...especially when all one hears from the plaintive, well-spoken advice of street wise prophets is babbles and baubles. Hence, why all logic is spoken from a theatre with a marquee bearing the name "Cassandra.",This isn't a game one "plays". You don't "control" these people. You're along for the ride with the same knowledge of an audience that watches a Greek tragedy. It's an immersive dive into a virtual experience of dramatic irony played out as an epic elegy and a dirge. It speaks with somber poetic prose and sings out a mournful lamentation in its soundtrack, dialogue, and the pulpy violent narrative that knit it all together into one experience. This game is like the bifurcated tale of the Greeks after the fall of Troy, 2 parts of one of humanity's grand armies searching for a home, or an idea of it, that no longer exists. One makes it to home's warm embrace. One is perpetually searching. They both ache for what the other has...but have no idea what to do with their own mad kingdoms when they are the last ones standing.,In the end...all the kingdoms fall when the furies rage on and on and on for revenge amidst the rubble. Eventually, all that rage and rubble is pulverized to dust...and blows away, carried on the wind of forgotten songs captured in music beaten mercilessly into stone for the ages, but left no mercy for the memory of how the songs were played and sung. The song fades into its own drowning wind, letting go of the nostalgia of what was, and leaving the hollow, hopeful ache of what might be. I have no idea how a goddamn video game made me think and feel so much, but the artistry of it all is not meant to be understood, but experienced.
6208) I didnt think that they could up the ante when it comes to storytelling and gameplay.,This game is a work of art without sacrificing what truly makes a top 5 game in history...for me at least.,While Part 1 was often repetitive at times, this is absolutely not.I am eager to see what lies ahead for video games in general after this experience.  I've been playing games since 1982 and I can't remember the last time I was excited to replay any game but this one has affected me on so many levels of emotion that it will be hard to put down for a minute. Congratulations to the people that made this and THANK YOU FOR YOUR HARD **** WORK!!!!!!!,Ps...,Every story doesnt end up with rainbows and ice cream.,Every story isnt written to make sure everyone is happy.,Most stories aren't even close to being as good as this one was.
6209) Amazing game **** y’all for rating it bad game is a master piece just like the first one duh
6210) Good gameplay and good story. Ambience is dark and gore and the characters are interesting and complex.
6211) The game-play and graphic is the best in the industrial, the environment and how the game  interact with player is solid . The plot is really hard to make player swallow, but it's not because the quality, it's because the game made player face the side we all want to ignore and forget, and refuse to let the audience escape the painful truth of the world.  Even this is just a video game, I still can feel the weight of Ellie's feeling. It's the most ugly but perfect game anyone have ever create.
6212) The Last Of US Part II is almost a perfect game with a very brave story. It has a great soundtrack, and stunning performances. Amazing ghrapichs, and atmosphere, and great gameplay. iti s worth playing
6213) I am a HUGE fan of The Last of Us, and was absolutely terrified to play this game due to all the rage I saw online before it's release. I avoided all spoilers and was able to play the game fresh, and found that although I could completely understand the upset - THAT WAS THE WHOLE POINT. The game achieved what it wanted to do, make us mad, revengeful, hateful, and then it masterfully, through carefully crafted story telling, makes you do what you never thought you could after that fateful moment - have empathy.,,The other comments I see is about the LGBT themes this game has. I despise PC culture personally, and I was shocked to find that this rage, for once, was unfounded. This is a game that finally DOES NOT shove it in your face and simply makes this a part of these characters, not their entire character arc like most media unfortunately seems to hone in on.,,The game play was fantastic, the story kept me on edge throughout its entirety, and the graphics were the best Naughty Dog has ever produced.,,Give this a go and go into it subjectively.
6214) This game is an emotional roller coaster bringing you through a cinematic masterpiece. DO NOT JUDGE THIS GAME IF YOU HAVENT PLAYED IT YOURSELF. If you happened to have the game spoiled for you this game is still full of surprises not to mention the journey to those points is far more important. Naughty Dogand the team did such a fantastic job. This game truly pushes the boundaries of story telling possible through video games. It's a must play and is truly fantastic. Naughty Dog sets out to tell you a story and one that you'll be talking about for years.
6215) Thank you Neil Druckmann for creating this masterpiece, don't believe the hate review, play it for yourself, haters  always gonna hate.
6216) totally recommended if you play the first game,,the hype that this game delivers is beyond imagination,,also the story is good its different from the first part yes for sure but still a good story combine it with the action the environment and the soundtrack and you got one of the best games for 2020.
6217) I don't understand what all the hate is about, I Love this game. If you didn't like this game the first time then give it a second chance.
6218) Every bit as engrossing and compelling as the first.  Even better environments, graphics, combat and exploration.  The negative reviews make no sense to me.  If you enjoyed the first game, this follows up with a very dark angle that fleshes out the world.  It's longer, and to me that's wonderful.  I wanted more, and we have it.  Take a moment to look around in any given room and the details are astounding.  I was just in a random arcade filled with all sorts of perfectly detailed machines and games.  Some of the complaints I've seen are just so bizarre.  You're ok with killing hundreds of humans but it bothers you to kill an attack dog?  I think there's a bit of generational disconnect going on here that parallels our political environment.  Unfortunately a large portion of people can't separate their political know-it-all behavior from enjoying a video game and that's just awful for them.  If you can, you'll love it, it's absolutely a masterpiece.
6219) Very good game, The story could have been better but the actors and staf did a very good job and deserve the creddit
6220) Beautiful game hope it will win the goty.i can't understand all this zero.they are all xbox players
6221) Great game, beautiful graphics, amazing story, don't listen to the incels. Gay Rights!
6222) this game suckss this game sucksthis game sucksthis game sucksthis game sucksthis game sucks
6223) One of the best games I’ve played yet.  Big fan of the first TLOU.  Don’t know where all the hate is coming from.  My take is that it’s from ignorant people that don’t like the lgbtq angle of the story.  It’s not a statement and the fact that some people can’t get over that detail says that their opinion of the game is contaminated.  If she were in just heterosexual relationship, they wouldn’t be saying that this game is “poor writing”. Or maybe they don’t like the game because a certain protagonist got killed.  I don’t know why that doesn’t make sense to some people.  Made perfect sense to me.  Has nothing to do with storytelling because the story is f*cking stellar.  The acting and graphics are top notch.  Don’t listen to the negative reviews.  They don’t know ****
6224) Well, after resetting this masterpiece, I'm sad but the game is indeed perfect !! It's a story full of emotions, I cried a lot of times ... I got scared and I was afraid too. It addresses important topics in a way that I loved, it shows taboos about religious visions ... and it was in such a well inserted way, for  I flowed naturally as some things were normalized (it didn't flow for those who are **** prejudices) .... The cycle of events and the main motivation of the characters closes perfectly and shows that in this world there is no side of good or side of evil.  .. Everybody is a human being trying to survive ... The end took me out of sadness, but as there is a gap I am imagining that the following events would be good! I loved the protagonists, especially Abby, finally a game with feminine protagonism where the woman breaks zombie in the punch, survives and does great things without having to be sexualized. Good for those who did not like the story of the two one: 1 prejudiced little **** 2 does not enjoy stories focused on feelings and that do not have infallible protagonism and a happy or pleasant ending.  and a grand finale, that things always work out for the guy, but surprise, that doesn't happen in an apocalyptic world of humans. The graphic is excellent, soundtrack idem. I only had about 4 bugs during the whole game and only one was hideous and made me reload !! 10/10
6225) what a game a complete master piece from the writing to the art work and game play and action action is just awsome great job naughty dog wow best game by far this gen 10/10 and goty for sure.
6226) Best game of 2020 no doubt. The ones who are giving it a negative are 1. The people who bought the game due to it looking popular among the gaming community as they knew nothing about the game. 2. They just hate single player campaigns and not a last of us fan.
6227) This game is not about the relationship of Joel and Ellie. it was never supposed to. This game was a story of revenge and hatred. It is not supposed to be just like the first one in that regard. This game brings so much to the table and most of these negative reviews come from people who have either not finished the game or could even get past the first few hours. Do not allow people's shallow minds and absurdly childish views on this franchise to let you think this is a bad game. The story is fantastic, the characters develop in a beautiful way. It is a depressing story, filled with heartbreak and moments that made me cry. This is what The Last of Us is. it is a game set in a terrible time. It is supposed to be a tough time. you get hurt. that is the point. This is some of the best storytelling in a game. and thee game mechanics, especially combat, is refined and fantastic.,,Play the game for yourself. do not let these review bombs tarnish your view on this game. Many read the spoilers online and immensely disregarded this game. That is insane. My world has been changed because of this game. no piece of media has done what this game has done to me
6228) For someone new to the franchise this was an incredible experience. I am moved to write this review mainly because I highly disagree with those who rate it negatively. It's not unlike getting to the top of a great mountain vista and having your teenage son berate you for making you miss their Saturday morning cartoons. There's no accounting for taste but then again a refinement of culture does echo the divine. And there is something divine about this game for me. It's beauty it's attention to detail it's immersion. It's story. A lot of feeling people put a lot of work into this and I applaud their monumental efforts and appreciate how touching it was for me to experience. I mourn the fact that so many others for whatever reason failed to appreciate this for what I can only assume is a lack of depth empathy and intellect. I can maybe see where people were thrown off but again it seems to me to be just poor taste. The metaphor that comes to mind would be taking someone on a roller coaster ride and having them complain about the ups and downs and the fear they felt. While the reasoning is valid it is simply a failure to appreciate something that is wonderful to behold and to experience if one has an open and undefiled mental state. And the fact that so many people are playing this game and reviewing it seems to bespeak an underlying lack of awareness on the part of those giving it such negative reviews. Perhaps they like it more than they are even aware but for a few key ingredients that they are stuck on which didn't go as they wanted which would have made it a pretty white bread sequel in all honesty. In any case good art is appreciated and celebrated in its time by the masses but great art often goes undetected or is even ridiculed except for a select few. The fact that this game is so hype and so hated by so many may actually be a credit. Truly though it is a credit unto itself. One does not need to read the reviews to know it one simply has to play the game. And for people who aren't gamers cinephiles perhaps would marvel at what could be done with the medium. For this game truly played like a movie like a long uninterrupted epic with themes and motifs and tropes and the like. Maybe someday in the future they will have high school or even college age students play this game and its predecessor like you might read a book for a liberal arts class. For that is what this ultimately is - a genre defining work of art. I hope people come around to it and replay it for it is definitely as good if not better on the second playthrough. And again applause for the creators and the designers. Thank you for your dedication and your commitment to your craft. It takes courage integrity and grit to do what you did here. Thank you.
6229) Honestly the greatest game I’ve ever played. Made me feel all sorts of emotions, highs and lows that were extremely moving and unexpected. So good.
6230) My god what a games Neil Druckmann and the Naughty Dog Team please take a bow I applied you, you have out done your selfs macnificent masterpiece
6231) This game is amazing, it's something no one could predict and really emotional. There where moments playing this game that I felt like utter **** the theater scene where you play as Abby ruined me, and the golf scene was truly brutal. And that's why this game is as good as it is, the fact that a game can make you feel this much emotion and true pain is crazy. On top of all that the gameplay is quite compelling, the stealth combat is great and the enemy AI is much more developed then most games I've ever played and the graphics are impeccable. I also love how they had the guts to kill Joel, and I find it's hilarious that so many people are mad about that, that's truly a brutal moment that many creators don't have the guts to do. On top of all that, the acting and animations in the game are incredibly well done and actors such as Ashley Johnson and Laura Bailey show incredible performances that honestly make me wish that actors like them got more recognition in the whole industry of popular media, seeing as what they do is often much more complicated than what a conventional voice actor from an animated film.,Story: 10/10,Gameplay: 9/10,Graphics 10/10,Pisses off incels 10/10,Animations: 10/10,Voice acting: 10/10
6232) Very good game. Continues a theme of desperation and action throughout the entire presentation, rewarding you with a fantastic singular ending.
6233) What an experience! Heroes becoming villains. Riveting story. Tragedy, action, love, sadness, and death everywhere. Every scene just scary as hell.,Stop being mad that it used sexual orientation as a story motivation. It’s 2020. Grow the **** hi and deal with it. People can love who they want.
6234) This is a really great game on all levels, and the story is awesome. My top two games on PS4 up to this point were Sekiro and Doom Eternal, but LOU2 tops both by a large margin. All these games have incredible graphics, interesting and well-designed game loops, flawless production and so forth, but LOU2 stands out with its unrivaled story-telling, emotional significance and philosophical gravitas. There is so much I could say about this game but you should just play through.
6235) No content has moved me ever as this game did. It made me question emotions within me.
6236) No game has ever made me physically react like The Last of Us Part 2. There was multiple times where my girlfriend had to point out to me I was on the edge of my seat or mouth hanging open. The game plays with time to show the consequences of your actions and experience a narrative from both sides. I completely felt justified in my actions from each perspective and that only served to add to the horror of the things I’d done. My new favourite game of all time, easily.
6237) People are complaining and crying so much about the game. Toxic gamers are very unappreciative and graceful with how they discuss games and it’s very ugly and unfortunate The Last of Us 2 has to suffer from it. The game is as great as the first for entirely different reasons in terms of the storyline. The storyline is complex, emotional, deep, and heartbreaking. The game pulls no punches and features some of the best in game performances I’ve ever seen. The animations are the best I’ve ever seen as well. The game took me on a journey and made me think and feel in ways I never saw coming. 10/10 an unforgettable and incredible experience that I don’t think we will see again for a long time. Bravo Naughty Dog, bravo.
6238) Literally the best game this console generation has seen; may even be amongst the best video games of all time. Those pissed off, narrow minded trolls who are just downvoting the game just for the sake of hating it can just f**k off; this game has most mature storytelling I’ve ever seen in video games. Kudos to ND for taking creative liberties and giving us this masterpiece. And again those inbred pissy trolls can just f**k outta here and let the gamers enjoy this masterpiece.
6239) The story is very good if you try to see it open-minded .Give it a try and play it
6240) If you experience the game for yourself without any spoilers like it should be, you will get the full experience. This is probably the best game I've ever played, so many emotions in one game. I've never had a game take me on such an amazing journey before, you are thrown into anger wanting vengeance and then the next minute you are growing as a person yourself. Complete masterpiece. I honestly believe people who hated this game either never played it themselves, or gave into the spoilers and other people's opinions.
6241) Best game of the generation, one of the best games I've ever played, even with things that i don't agree, like the time we play with Abby, i really wanted to play more time with Ellie than with Abby.
6242) Before you hate this game, you will need to finish the game. The story is a perfect contrast of the first game. Writers take risk and it pays off. Every action has consequences. All characters are three dimensional, you need to give them a chance. If you just look for story that is black and white then you are playing the wrong game.The world of The last of us has always been grey. Open your heart and enjoy the game.
6243) Whats the point of having ground breaking graphics and best gameplay mechanics when the story is crap, it's like a decorated mummy, just a piece of flesh with no soul. another series died with PC and SJW #GetWokeGoBroke
6244) I really don't know what to say about the scores. This game is a masterpiece. I loved it from the beginning to the end. A great and sad ending.Please delete fake accounts.
6245) I dont know why people are raging against the game. The game is perfect! The story isnt bad has most kids say, gameplay is very good. Honestly, the bad reviews are just to bring the game down after a long wait to play it.
6246) This game has such story and story telling than none other game ever. It shows the layers and depths of human emotions so beautifully and so unique that we did not have yet and will have to wait for for a long time. It probably gets the closest to the reality and how humans would react and behave in an apocalyptic world. It's psychologically 100% accurate! That's what makes it so great and so bad for people.,As a game it is also great and awesome, but it gets its 10 points for the story and story telling.,,Captivating and amazing. Heartbroken and mesmerised. That's how you have to feel about the story if you understand it. But it's not for everyone to understand, and that is good as it is.
6247) It's one of the most incredible games I've ever played, as good as the first one
6248) I loved the first one. I loved the expansion/dlc. They were beautiful vignettes of a world gone beautifully wrong. It was an amalgam of a lot of different apocalyptic ideas with an ending reminiscent of Old Boy, one of my favorite stories and adaptations. I'm not here to talk about controversy. I'm here to tell you this was a mistake. Don't substitute good story telling for anything. Ask the creators of Game of Thrones- or are they still in hiding? Ask the President of Lucasfilm.... or... was she fired? All these IP's had devoted fans that were taken advantage of in service of something else BESIDES good story telling. Fans who were devoted enough to tune in and open their wallets. Sometimes enough is just enough.
6249) It's an incredible game, I love it so much, I'm cried so many times. 10 of 10 obviously
6250) Best game I’ve played, a lot of the negative reviews on here are from people that haven’t actually played the game and just going along with a mob mentality. If you wanna know how you’d like it, take the time to play it yourself. Genius story.
6251) Excellent adventure, story and memorable characters. Amazing combat mechanics. Love it!
6252) Visuals are stunning, the gameplay is the same of the first game but improved and with new mechanics like rapel, the story is pretty good and yes, Joel is killed but you can see an incredible evolution in characters and also you can see that all the things have consequences but the story has in my opinion a little problem at the end that can be solved in a dlc but it has the same quality as the first one.,In my opinion if you liked the first one you have to play this too and you will love it and also is one of the greatest games of the generation.
6253) Why people hate this game so much? I know, because they dont played that. I think this game is a masterpiece, the graphics are awesome,  big map, cool soundtracks, i almost cried when Joel died, Nil Drakman is a genius
6254) This is one of the best games with one of the best character driven stories I have ever played. I didn’t think I’d like certain parts or characters, but Naughty Dog brought them to life and made me fall in love with them. The majority of the bad player reviews are review bombs. Some because of the diversity this game uses, others because they don’t get to play as their favorite character. They haven’t given the game a chance and therefore are missing out.
6255) It’s been about 48 hours since I finished the game, and I am still completely awestruck by it. The gameplay, the graphics, the complex and highly emotional story that makes you challenge your own beliefs. I have never been so emotionally devastated by any piece of media like this before, let alone just video games. And it’s divisive, as any work of art should be. I’m on the side of appreciation. This game is a true masterpiece. I loved it.
6256) Excellent. The story makes you feel a range of emotions. It’s not a happy story But that’s the point. It won’t be for everyone. I was so disgusted by Joel’s death and I intensely wanted Abby dead. As soon as you play as her I knew they would try and make me have empathy for her. I didn’t think it was possible but I eventually grew to like her to the point I no longer wanted her dead. Think about it, if there was no TLOUS 1 or backstory to Joel or Ellie then people would hate them for they did to Abby. I’m glad Ellie let go before the acts she committed destroyed her completely. I do wish that Ellie found some kind of happiness and meaning in the end though and I hope that’s the focus if there’s a DLC or continuation of the story
6257) The story is a little sad but I think it’s very creative and true for the life in that world
6258) there is a lot of users rating 10 just to try to higher the count... the game is actually not good and 3-4 is actually a related score.
6259) It`s f*cking masterpiece. I don't understand all the hate around it... The graphics, the plot, the characters: everything is completely awesome.
6260) Great & bold story. Amazing technology. Astounding gameplay. A must-buy and must-play game. I've enjoyed every second of it!
6261) Loved the game and the gameplay, i really hope to see a chapter 3 on the future
6262) Thanks Naughty Dog for this experience, love gameplay and story,,I would rate this game 9/10, but 4.5 is such unfair score for this :/
6263) I really hoped that this would not be a banal continuation about Ellie and Joel, who go to some safe place and simultaneously strengthen their relationship again. And how glad I am that the sequel takes a completely different idea for the concept and more deepens me much more as a player in the game world than part 1 did. The second part has the concept of a cycle of revenge, which we will study immediately from two sides of the conflict. I really liked that the first half of the game, we go through revenge, and the second half of the path of redemption. The gameplay has become much deeper and more interesting, and the study of locations has become much more fun. The atmosphere has become much darker and no longer has a division into white and black, which can be seen in 1 part.  The Last of Us Part II is the most beautiful game I have ever seen. I like that there are much more moments similar in atmosphere to Resident Evil. The gameplay in the hospital for Abby is definitely one of my favorite moments in the game. As in the first part, I am pleased that I was not given a choice at the end. I'm glad for Ellie that she was able to let go of her revenge and off cycle of pain. And I'm definitely happy for Leo and Abby, who, I hope, will find Fireflies and happiness.
6264) save this game pls, dolbayebi never changes, its not 10 maybe 7 but not 4.2. thx eblany
6265) I loved the first game, but surprisingly I might love this one even more. I felt so many emotions while playing and loved the relationships shown between Ellie/Dina and Ellie/Joel and how they developed. The gameplay was polished and fun, with cool animations and satisfying sound design. The settings were also diverse and you can really optimize what kind of challenge you want when playing. The story was suspenseful and bittersweet.  However, if I’m going to nitpick the story did have some holes. Off the top of my head I can think of a few, such as why weren’t Joel and Tommy more cautious around Abby and her friends? They’ve lived a long time in a post-apocalyptic world and have wronged many, so I don’t think they’d be so open to share personal info. Also, I can understand how Tommy would turn spiteful in the end of the game, but if felt sudden and out of nowhere. It felt out of character to be that harsh towards Ellie. Maybe if we saw more development with Tommy and his anger towards Joel’s death it wouldn’t be surprising. Overall though I have very few gripes with the game and consider it a work of art. Just because the story didn’t always go the way I wanted to doesn’t make it a bad game. Although I still feel resentment towards Abby and will defend Joel for his actions, I was relieved that Ellie spared Abby in the end. Not for Abby’s sake, but for Ellie’s.  She found her peace with Joel and realized she didn’t have to kill Abby to do it. The fight at the end showed how exhausting holding on to the pain and anger was, when neither of them truly wanted to continue. Ok that’s my rambling for today. Great game. Highly recommend.
6266) The best game of this generation.,,Best graphic, sound, charctermodeling, .....,Maby the story is not, what i expected, but its not about me and my ecpectations.,Awesome, great, emotional, best action & stelth ....,I love it.
6267) ........happy pride month everyone especially homophobes here ;з..........
6268) People on here moaning need to get a grip. Just because they didn't release a carbon copy of the first game is no reason to instantly bomb it. This is an amazing experience. With a brutal, terrifying and hauntingly, beautiful tale to tell and should not be missed.
6269) Naughty Dog wrote a completely original story and most of the negative reviewers hate this part, i think it was one of the best stories i ever played. I don't know why people want cliché and overused stories over and over again. We could see the story in multiple perspective, know the characters past and feelings, they changed while we were playing as them. Finally not an antagonist (if we can call her that) who just a single enemy without any personality. Anyone who can write this story better should deserve a Nobel prize.
6270) Excelent game. From the graphics to the gameplay this meets and far exceeds the standards set by the first part.
6271) Note : I am not giving it a 10 to balance out the bad scores.,,This game is incredible on many many aspects. The gameplay feels so, so good. Every weapon is very satisfying to use thanks to the sound effects and the gore. The ability to dodge is a good addition. The sneaking works very well with the added ability to crawl and different ways of going through the environment. The puzzle phases are so much better than in the first game and more diverse with the ropes, the jumps, all the windows you can go through. The maps are much more open (at least during the first half of the game) with a lot of things you can easily miss if you go in a straight line (pretty much every weapon and upgrades can be missed). The ambient music works really well to raise the tension. The facial animations combined with the acting make every character look so real, you can read everything on their faces. The accessiblity options also are unrivaled. To sum it up, everything is really, really good and if you liked the first game I don't see how you can dislike this one based on everything I just mentioned.,,Now, for the controversial aspect, the story. It is incredible. However, the game does not go easy on you. At all. Prepare to be upset several times. That said, the hard parts are there for a reason and not for shock value. They make sense. And they make more and more sense the further you go in the story, and take into account every character's motivations. The story in itself is simple but emotionally complicated, a lot more than the first game's that is very straightforward. If you haven't read any spoiler, the better because ouf of context any story can look bad, hell the first game's story can hold on a post-it note. Around mid-game, something happens. If you can get over it and just enjoy the ride, you will love this game. The second half of the game probably is my favorite part because of the weapons you have and the environments you go through as well as the dialogs.,,I am sorry to say it, but I think that a lof of hateful reviews are left by people that are either not emotionally mature (the game is supposed to be 18+ remember ?) ,or mad that this game's story is not what they wanted, or they just decided that they hated the game before they even played it. So, go for it, make you own opinion and I think that you'll see that the game is incredible. Probably my GOTY.
6272) just amazing, the game is too good.,Before criticizing the game, play and draw your conclusions, everyone has the right to dislike it but first have the experience of playing The last Of Us Part II.
6273) Wow, what a game! Technically the best game for the PS4 so far. The graphics, sound effects and voice-overs are absolutely stunning. Sometimes you, as a player, don't know if you are in a game or "just" watching the next Hollywood blockbuster! Simply breathtaking! Unfortunately many players expected an other game story wise. What a pity! If you are unbiased and open for a very emotional tour de force, this game is definitely something for you. For me it's a masterpiece!
6274) I was worried ND may want to reinvent the wheel (gameplay mechanics) just to make it appeal to more people. TLOU2 gameplay mechanic however has not changed drastically compared with the original game. Of course there are some interesting improvements in TLOU part 2, for example we can hide now in the tall grass, jump, avoid punches, break windows (amazing animation BTW.), explore bigger locations and use the map, but these are not big changes and generally it feels like playing the same game. We still need to plan each encounter with enemies and use different strategy, we still need to search for supplies and "spend" each bullet / weapon careffuly. I also like story despite the hate. It's shocking and surprising and I feel like it's a good continuation to the previous game (some people were expecting a fairy tale for real? :p),,TLOU1 was already 10/10 from me, and TLOU2 is even better. Part 2 takes gamers on an emotional rollercoaster with insane graphics and fun combat, and I will replay it many times for sure.
6275) Improved version of the first game with more deep drama, left me alone with so much emotions.
6276) This game is an art! How brave they are to bring out the issue that there are still many kind of hate in the world that we don't talk about enough.
6277) Started playing at the time of release. Reached the end in 2 days. This is the best work in the last 7 years. Thank. I am still impressed. I registered here for the first time due to the fact that I see injustice.
6278) This game is a masterpiece. Gorgeous storytelling, gorgeous graphics, gorgeous gameplay. I've been trying to understend the people who are disappointed, but theyìir arguments always make no sense to me. The sound like crybabies, or rather racist, homofobic, toxic people, who know nothing about storytelling pretending they do. Do yourself a favor, and play this game if you played the first one
6279) It is nothing short of being a masterpiece, as it is incredibly brave with it’s storytelling. The greatest part is that it offers perspective like no other game has done before.,Cancel Culture can’t and won’t ruin this game as it is an epic emotional journey like no other.
6280) I finished this game last night on Survivor difficulty at about 28hr. It is spectacular and deserves to be considered a Masterpiece. So, I avoided the spoiler leak until I finished the game, but finally googled it to see what all the fuss was about. Reading what it was, I ended up laughing my a** off. To keep it vague and spoiler-free, the leak spoils a scene that happens very early in the game, informs you that you will play as another character besides Ellie, makes a claim/prediction that DOES NOT happen, and exposes very lightly of the theme of the story. Cheers to all the people that hate a 11hr story in cutscenes because of a very early-game scene. It is fair to say if you hate it, it is simply because you did NOT play it.,,Anyway, rant over. Let us actually review the game. I do not want to include too many details because it is a wonderful experience and should not be spoiled. The story is amazing, and to be completely honest I felt more closure with The Last of Us now than I did 7 years ago. Just play the game and see for yourself.,,Now for the gameplay, it is perhaps the most realistic and immersive video game I ever played. It is as detailed and visually beautiful as RDR2 or perhaps even better. I believe it is a huge step-up from the first one. It definitely adds a lot more variety, just the ability to prone alone adds a whole new experience to the game with abilities to hide better, crawl in long grass, crawl under tight spaces, shooting/throwing on your side/back, etc. Some of the level-designs for encounters are perhaps some of the best stealth playgrounds I have seen   to date. To avoid spoiling the surprise, I would vaguely explain them based on my experiences. In any given encounter, you choose how you want to approach the situation whether it is stealth or guns n blazing. The AI is pretty aware and intelligent (on survivor mode at least), and their patrols are not so straightforward. They even look around in a very realistic manor rather than an AI that never checks over their own shoulder. Going back to list some examples of the playground: you can prone in long grass, cause distractions by throwing bottles/bricks or shatter glass on vehicles/buildings, place trap mines to bait enemies on your trail, lure runners/clickers into humans, climb structures to get the higher ground, swim in water to stealth through, etc… you get the point. There are some areas you even can prone in shallow water, not many games especially FPS games contain such a feature, you literally get to swim in 1ft deep water. You can obviously use it to your advantage to sneak around even more. The purpose of this list is to demonstrate just  how much of a variety each encounter delivers. I died a lot on Survivor mode, and let me tell you, many of my last checkpoints played out so differently because of all the factors this game has. Overall, one can argue that the stealth may not be as in-depth compared to franchises such as Splinter Cell and Metal Gear Solid, but it is definitely in the conversation.,,My favorite part of the game is easily the executions. I played 28+ hr and I still see new executions, you get a handful of different melee weapons, and can use them all in different actions to see other animations: sprinting and meleeing, sneaking and meleeing, dodging and meleeing, each one has a different animation-execution for each weapon…Bonkers! What also makes the game so fantastic is how beautiful it plays in its unscripted moments. TLoU2 perhaps has a few scripted areas, which are pretty intense. But the real beauty is during your encounters, watch any given clip on YouTube and you will be asking yourself if that sequence of actions were scripted or not. I cannot tell you how many times I was left in awe because of it.,,Story: 10/10 (Emotional, dark, heavy, story with a fantastic theme),,Detail: 10/10 (I do not even know where to begin, blood tracking from your shoes after stepping in a puddle of blood, realistic character animations when navigating unscripted areas, you can even shine your flashlight in your companion’s face and they squint + look away. It is incredible detail),,Level-Design/Environments: 10/10 (Exploring areas can take you 5-45 min depending how you choose to play, creative enemy encounters),,Puzzles: 6/10 (Nothing challenging but some had me thinking for a few minutes, they do not compare to Uncharted/Tomb Raider/Zelda/etc puzzles. Mainly all revolve using a rope with some critical thinking),,Audio: 10/10 (Amazing soundtrack, realistic atmospheric sounds),,Replayability: 5/10 (Once you finish story mode on hardest difficulty and 100% there is nothing left to do for most players),,It is a shame for all the hate Naughty Dog is receiving for this game. Please finish the whole game first to see the whole story, and then rate it. The game is broken up in flashbacks throughout, seeing 2hr out of a 20+ hr does nobody justice.
6281) My game of the decade (2011-2020). I loved everything about it and did not encounter any bug.
6282) And nothing the circle closes .... finished the last of us part 2 .... Naughty Dog, LLC never banal.,Undisputed masterpiece playful video of all time (for me of course), soundtrack hit the spot, full of feeling hate and pain, it seemed to see a movie where you empathized with every single character you knew going forward with the story.,they connected very well the end of the first chapter with the second, I twisted my nose a bit with the introduction of the second main character at the beginning but then I understood the reason for this addition (abbey),-final (spoiler alert),ellie cannot kill abbey because she can empathize with her even when she has killed her "father". she sees joel in her, abbey saves lev and ellie remembers that figure as if she were joel ... fantastic!,Well what to say I'm sorry I finished it ...,I hope to see other titles like that on your part,Chapeau
6283) Visually impressive, The Last of Us: Part II is a unique, dark, violent and brutal experience that makes us question what separates man from the animal. A masterpiece that Naughty Dog delivers to us at the end of the generation and that we, the players, can only be grateful for.
6284) This Game is a masterpiece of videogames history.,Sometimes when u deliver something more than people expected, u get hated.
6285) I started off hating it because of watching what abby does to joel but then over the course of playing it i started feeling just as bad for her as i do ellie both of them putting there life on hold for revenge it's a story that ends an leaves you feeling so empty and heartbroken but that's why i enjoyed it so much it keeps bring you back to play it.
6286) I really like the game and this is one of the best games on PS4 and a must have in your collection.,I would definitely recommend it to Players  who like a story driven game.
6287) Absolute masterpiece of a game! Played it for 4 days straight, just couldn't put the pad down at all. I found both Ellie and Abby to be wonderfully well written characters, two sides of the same coin..I absolutely dispised Abby to begin with but by the ending i needed her to survive. The supporting characters Dina and Lev were wonderful, fully fitting in with their companions with ease. And making you root for them to be the positive influence that both Ellie and Abby needed.,The accessibility settings blew me away, I'm fortunate that I can play without them but the fact that they are so intensive means this game is truly accessible to nearly ALL gamers. Cant wait to jump back in and start it all over again... once I've recovered from the emotional rollercoaster that this game delivers.
6288) This game improves on every aspect of the previous part and also makes the first part better and more meaningful, visually the best looking game of the generation till this point, level and gameplay design it's greatly improved upon the previous part for a smoother experience also improving and bringing new game mechanics to make that experience more realistic, on each aspect with great attention to detail characteristic of the studio, being a story driven game the story is wider and deeper than its predecessor, not complacent so it can convey what it wants to tell, transmit, make you feel and experience, it's not idealist, shows not to see things in absolutes, that not everyone is just a hero or a villain, that not every story has a happy beginning or ending and aboards things in more than one perspective to do that.
6289) Awsome game. Naughty dog, if you read this. Keep going. You are awsome.  We need developers hwo dares something. This is like the Raiden Story. The poeple hated Raiden for not being Solid Snake. And today they love him. The poeple hwo rated a 0 to this game has lost the control over they lifes Xd. Sad very sas what's going on in this world.
6290) I can’t see how this game is filled up with bad reviews, I bet 10 but in fact the game is at 7/10. Game play is great for me, graphics is amazing, the game pays attention to details. Plot is at 5/10 and it kill the game.
6291) What an incredible game. I cried so many times, this game is a masterpiece. Please do not stop at all this review bombing, this game is incredible. If you can play it, play it and you won't regret it.
6292) The best experience in gaming in this year on PlayStation 4. These game includes action, drama and the feeling of sadness more satisfactory in my life.
6293) Game of the generation. Excellent storytelling, graphics, and atmosphere. A revenge story with a meaningful message for our current world. You need to have an open mind, because it isn't a story you wanted after the first game, but it's a story the writers wanted to tell, and they were damn right.
6294) realistic game with diverse characters (just like real life, even if this statement makes people around here cry :'c) which depicts the worst traits of human beings and how they can consume you, until you basically become an animal or are strong enough to put an end to it.
6295) The Game is great. I cant understand the negative ratings. The story and the characters are so insane. New favourite game. :D
6296) The masterpiece. Really strong story with a deep meaning. Game is cruel, but this cruelty is neccery to fully reveal the main idea of the game. Graphics and atmosphere are awesome. Gameplay is similar to the first part, but still is a pleasure. You have a plenty options to deal with your foes.
6297) I really loved this masterpiece. Everyone is talking **** about it just because the story isn’t what they  wanted to be. The characters evolution, the massive places that you visit in game, the gameplay and even the conversations that the enemies have with each other are examples of the exemplary work that NaughtyDog have done with it. It’s a videogame filled with changing emotions and you can go from hating one character to loving it. 10/10
6298) Exceptional game. Please play it and decide for yourself instead of listening to the haters.
6299) I read the spoilers and like many others I was pretty pissed by what I found out. Ultimately I decided to give the game a chance to change my mind. Fortunately it did after I force myself to push through and play as Abby even though I didn’t want to.  In conclusion I was overall happy with the gameplay and story though I would change a few things with the story if I could. I am about halfway through my 2nd play through and I have to say it’s even funner when you have all of your upgrades and guns from the start.
6300) I find it ridiculous that you could give this GAME below a 6 because as a stealth GAME it is amazing. I also just would simply say I loved the story. Yes Joel's death was horribly done but for me it doesnt distract me too much from enjoying the rest of the story for me it works.
6301) Do not listen anyone. Just play.,Do not listen anyone. Just play,Do not listen anyone. Just play
6302) A great game if you give it a chance don't prejudge and put aside expectations they are always a bad idea
6303) Same people **** about Joel's death are the same people who stopped watching the Walking Dead after Carl's death.
6304) It is an amazing experience from the gameplay to the graphics and the fantastic story. Would deffently recommend
6305) Absolutely fantastic game people are just upset it didn’t go the way they wanted to but it makes perfect sense why they did what they did for the story. Hate how people just jump on the bandwagon for memes. No matter how good or bad this game really was it wouldn’t matter. People would just give it bad reviews anyway
6306) incredible game with a great and deep story, magnificent graphics and captures of expressions never seen before in the gaming world
6307) Breathe take, amaizing gameplay but still manteins his original gameplay 10/10 what a game man
6308) Masterpiece. The game gave me a roller coaster that emotions that no other game has managed to give me. The story is heavy, but it is there to make us reflect a lot on our attitudes. Congratulations to Naughty Dog for having the courage to address so many subjects that many avoid. 10/10
6309) The last of us 2 in my oppinion is perfect i feel like a lot of people are mad about Joels death but they probably dont understand the meaning of Ellies flashbacks of him like the ending when Ellie spares Abby she has a flashback of her and Joel moving on from there problems over the firefly hospital and i feel like Ellie and Joel moving on from that symbolises Ellie moving on from Abby i honestly feel like the last of us 2 was a masterpiece never has a game made me feel the emotion last of us 2 did its a must play.
6310) I think either the next year or two people will comeback to this game and be like "wow I'm glad I played The Last of Us Part 2 again, I now realized that this is a game I should have loved in the beginning man" Amazing game from Naughty Dog
6311) Gameplay and story is amazing. The story is not what you would want for the characters, doesn't mean the game is bad or the story is bad.
6312) I understand why some folks hated. But also is why is not for anybody.,Thank you Naughty Dog.
6313) Great game, don’t listen to any reviews and try to overcome any leaks if you’ve seen them, go in with an open mind, and I promise you’ll enjoy this game. At it’s core it has beautiful story telling and brought me to tears more than once. The acting is fantastic and the developers deserve a ton of credit for how beautiful and fun this game is. But don’t listen to what I say, go in and make an opinion for yourself, you won’t regret it.
6314) Very good game the best gamer the world best game fornecer jogo muito bom o melhor de todos
6315) A excellent trama fine gameplay the last of us remember us ,how a game can excited us
6316) It’s one of the best games of all time, fan criticism is just stupid, you got good development of the characters, their motivations and all of that just ends in a mature and impressive way. You have to play this game not being followed by the idea that the protagonist (Ellie) is always going to win and act like a killer
6317) This game nearly broke me. I was so conflicted while playing. I couldn’t abide by the anger and revenge Ellie wouldn’t let go of. I was so livid having to start again as Abby. And overall it was just so **** harrowing and sad. I snot-cried at the end. But I FELT that emotion so many times throughout. Tension, excitement, glee, happiness, sadness, frustration, fear, sweetness. I went through all those emotions and more. I couldn’t wait to see what was next. And I loved the risks in storytelling. I loved the women protagonists kicking ass. I loved the Scars whistling. I loved the lush environment. I loved the gameplay and stealth (OMG did I love the stealth mechanics). Would have been fun to film myself for my gleeful reactions to vicious sneaky stealth kills and then right after I’m upset that I had to smash Nora and audibly yelling “STOP ELLIE I don’t want to do this” at the final fight with Abby. Clearly, this game worked and it really got to me. It’s a masterpiece.,Incredible piece of media. One that will outlast all this wild vitriol some of the Internet is tossing at it. The two games together are some of the best media i have ever engaged with. Thanks Naughty Dog!!!
6318) I loved playing as abby and seeing both point of views really added a lot of emotional weight when they started fighting cause I cared alot about both of them.
6319) The cycle of revenge ends here. I am going to see my mother... (Masterpiece).
6320) This is one of the best game have ever made, he makes you feel different sensations with the characters,don't make like the others and feel what the developers want to pass for you, I'm broken after this game❤
6321) Amazing game! Love the story, characters and how it ended. Graphics look awesome.  Already playing a 2nd playthrough.
6322) I'm just here to laugh at gamers. I haven't played the game but I've gotten all the entertainment I need out of their ridiculously bad takes.,,How dare they kill off a main character? How dare they have moral ambiguity? How dare woman not make pp hard?,,I sure am glad no game has ever made these mistakes before!
6323) This game was absolutely amazing. I'm so upset I've finished it. I wanted it to last forever. It really gets down into the nitty gritty of human emotion and traumas in a way I'm not sure I've ever seen. Highly recommend if you enjoyed the first one.
6324) It astounds me that anyone who's played this game could give it less than an 8. The story is phenomenal. I can't emphasis how much more this game delivers on an emotional level than its predecessor. The game-play is tight and incredibly tense and this game raises more questions then it could possibly answer. Anyone who read the links robbed themselves of an incredible experience.
6325) The best game in the world!!!!!!! Neil Druckmann, big thanks. I love your team.
6326) The best experience I've ever had playing this masterpiece From graphics To the beautiful environments Naughty dog killed it 10/10
6327) Part II does something I’ve never seen in a game before in the best possible way. The combat is gripping, the environments and attention to detail is fantastic and the motion capture and acting is masterful. Plus I can’t remember any game where someone’s seamlessly taken their shirt off.
6328) Let's start with the fact that you are dealing with a work of art, and as you know, ignorant people do not know about it, that's why there are so many negative opinions here. Graphics, music, action are at the highest level, when you shoot from a shotgun you feel this shot, which is very rare in games. The plot is amazing, very mature and unlike the first part, it shows stories from both sides. Both Elie and Abby are women to fall in love with, I adore the creators for showing Abby's story in such a way that I not only forgave her but also began to wish her well, that's why the end of the game was the hardest experience in my life (when it comes to games) . Everyone really should go through The Last of us 2 and see for yourself whether this cruel world created by Naughty Dogs will make you think about human nature. At the end I cried and prayed that it would end because my heart would not bear more emotions
6329) Positives:,-Game play,-Graphics,-Top Tier Animation,-Cut scenes and voice acting
6330) I feel emotionally crushed after finishing this. Both in terms of gameplay, and in terms of story, this game is incredibly ambitious, particularly compared to the first game. These are difficult story choices to execute, and it’s curlers they put a great deal of thought into every story beat, every character motivation. They took a tremendous leap of faith that the normal everyday gamer would allow themselves to feel along with the characters. From my perspective, and based on my experience, they succeeded - they played me like a fiddle.
6331) Definitely an unforgettable experience. The storytelling was very smart and brave and the game overall was brilliantly crafted. You can’t become angry at the plot because It didn’t give you the ending you wanted, instead you should try to keep an open-mind and experience what is given to you. This perspective will make you much more satisfied and happy both in the game and in real life.
6332) Amazing game play and story, people are not too happy with ending but the ability to play as another character increased de roller coaster of emotion. I loved it
6333) 625/5000,Simply a work of art in every sense, Very well programmed, very well musicalized, the audio mix is excellent (The only thing I missed was the sound of the flashlight on the joystick) the art in general, the color palette, the lighting , everything is very well cared for, it shows that they did it with a lot of love.,It is a game that addresses very current social issues, although most can see it as revenge, on the way you can see all the thoughts and possibilities that those involved pass through, making it very human and full of feelings.,Thank you Naughty dog for this wonder!
6334) It's as good as the last game graphics are amazing story in immersive. It pulls you in a dosen't let go. You have to think smart and sometimes is unforgiving.. it makes you feel real emotions. Hard to put down. It was well worth the money spent just don't spoil it for your self
6335) The game is excellent. Of course, it is no better than the first part, but no worse. I stop finding out the real community of games. Many people give an assessment without completing the game or without playing it at all. Guys, buy and complete the game and make up your mind...
6336) Naughty dog outdone themselves, I loved the rawness and pure survivor feeling that naughty dog nailed with this one. The game just looks and plays amazing. And somehow you managed to make the story work which i admire you for. A must buy for sure!!!
6337) The first game was centred around love. It was universally praised. The second game explored the themes of loss and hatred. Vitriol and division followed. By portraying a narrative that showcases the abominable lengths we could pursue in the name of revenge, the complexity of grief, the game achieved what it perhaps had always intended to do: challenge the players' mindsets by going against the grain and making them as uncomfortable as possible. I won't lie, I hated the direction the game took at first. It broke my heart. I thought it unnecessarily cruel. But the more I experienced the story for myself, I realized that maybe that was exactly the point. The game was never what I wanted or expected it to be. It exists not to pander to the players, but to make a statement on the human condition. It made me feel hate and love in equal measure. It made me enraged and then hollow by the end of it, broken as the characters and world around me. I love the game for what it is, not what it could've been. This story could've been what everyone wanted it to be. What everyone expected it to be. Instead, it slapped us in the face and gave us the exact opposite. A bleak, harsh reality that is justified by the established cruelty of its world. There is absolutely no way Naughty Dog couldn't have known this game was going to elicit intense vitriol from certain circles. They could've gone the "safe" route, given fans what they wanted, and proceed to garner praise, but instead they took a massive gamble and told a story they wanted to tell. It's phenomenal, how this game BOTH displayed and incited the depravity of humankind in such a profound manner. This was a social commentary in the making. Bravo, Naughty Dog. Bravo. What a phenomenal experience.
6338) People review bombing no way beat the game real people like us are just now beating the game now and it took a solid 2-3 day and nights straight to do so, I feel like my heart's strings have never been pulled harder and people jumping at spoilers to make judgements have no clue. This game gave me heavy resident evil vibes in the best way that the first never truly pulled off. The boss fight with Abby was straight out of RE:Nemesis and maybe Im the outlier here in that by my time was over with Abby I DID empathize with her SO strongly and honestly at the final fight let her kill Ellie just to see if there was a cannon ending for that. I really was not expecting to like Abby and from the first day in Seattle with her it felt like a slog but something about her, maybe the voice acting, maybe the ultra hard shielding around her heart that she had so strongly that made her so Hateable for many, but Relatable to me. We all love Ellie because we saw her grow up, and I know it was intentional writing, but Ellie pissed me off more than once and it's because I was really close to a few girls who acted just like that. Abby showed multiple times a certain restraint and maturity that Ellie couldn't understand untill she literally lost the ability to play her favorite tune. It was tragic. I truly was surprised myself that by the end I wanted them both to win, though I knew they had already both losses, so, so long ago. It was a masterpiece. And many people may never know it, they will judge this game off many other things, and the gameplay itself is superb in stealth and A.I.,Once again I wonder or possibly doubt it's even possible for them to continue this story again, especially with Ellie. But I have absolute faith and excitement for anything that may come. At the deepest expense of my emotional reserves. The HBO show that supposedly is happening could potentially turn this into something even greater. But as it stands, this is another turning point in video game narrative, and the the risks may have been obvious, (especially living in a post Game of Thrones world) I think we can all agree that the execution was nearly flawless and The Last of Us 2 has stuck it's landing.
6339) The gameplay, the graphics, the STORY!!! I cried a few times, this game is an emotional bomb!
6340) Games isn t just story,And please understand this game don t containe social justice warrior
6341) The best game ever, I hadn't saw a game like this, the story, gameplay, mechanic, all on this game is good... I love a lot of this game...I hadn't words to describe my happiness ❤️❤️❤️❤️
6342) We waited for such big sequel, and we got it. This is an incredible game which takes big risks, the ones nobody else would dare to afford. The game will literally change your mind about vengeance and what is "evil" or "good". All the negative reviews, below 8, are just wrong, they never played the game we really played. They just sit on small details they read somewhere. A must-have game for video-game lovers.
6343) I personally loved this game and don’t think it deserves the hate, especially when people haven't played any of the game. ND really did a good job helping me connect and fall in love with the characters, mainly Ellie and Dina. The gameplay and graphics were on another level. The attention to detail was immaculate and little things had me in shock. The story isn’t for everyone but it’s ambitious, high risk, and high reward. In the next few months to maybe years, I think players will really appreciate it. I think this game will inspire game creators to be more ambitious with their storytelling and really make it their own. I wouldn’t be surprised if this isn’t the last installment in the amazing last of us franchise.
6344) Most people hate the game because they killed a main character and that's just life. Imagine a post apocalyptic world that has gone to hell for years now,  you'll do anything to survive. Joels death isn't undignifying, it's a death. Everybody's fighting to survive and will do anything to do so. This is just a game trying to be real, not fun. GOT finale killed the main main character and that made sense, same as Joel, he tried to save a girl, the girl wanted to kill him, they were running from a horde and had nowhere to go. Feels like everyone is butthurt because undignifying deaths for big characters but this is a game trying to be real. That's why you have both perspectives in the story. Everything is a moral grey area, characters aren't good or evil, they're just human. They don't care you've liked a character for X hours of gameplay, characters just see a threat and won't event think of giving a "good death" to someone who ruined their life. Everything about the game is great, graphics, gameplay, acting. Also everyone complains about not being enough Joel in the game but everyone keep forgetting it's a sequel and not a standalone game. We've had a complete game to see Joel' and Ellie's relationship. Both Abby and Ellie do terrible things for different proposes, but each one is right in it's own way. A lot of people complain about being forced to play as Abby and that's the point of it. You're Ellie and you're killing dogs and people to find who killed Joel but she doesn't know what life is to this characters, until Abby's story. It gives you a bitter taste of everything Ellie has done through the first 10 hours of the game. It's a distopya where everyone is selfish and searching for the best for them. There's no hero to our story, we're just screwed up people trying to get by. Maybe some play games to feel good and joyful and that's why games like Mario exist. This is trying to reflect society and how the moral of humanity has changed because of how badly the world is doing. We don't play TLOU2 to be a hero, we play it to be a person. Maybe the first part seemed to be a hero story but in the end you just see everyone is flawed and selfish at some point. Joel sacrificed the entire human race for Ellie, and of course this had to have consequences. They live in a world where making a mistake will most certainly kill you. That's why you don't run through a door, let anyone live... But we're human, most characters experience happiness throughout the story because that's just what life is, ups and downs. You'll have to kill dogs, women, families to get by, but that never will mean you can't have a laugh in the middle of the storm. There'll always be a human part that feels empathy and compassion, that believes humanity might not be so bad after all, and that's why they let people go. No character has a strong enough morality to always be doing the right thing, everyone tries to protect what matters to them, no matter what. Aside from this, the agenda argument is just stupid. Being gay isn't a character defying trait. We were introduced to Ellie being gay on the dlc. No trans characters unnecessarily placed on the story. Most people started talking badly about the game after Joel's death but it's nonsensical to expect everything going right in this world we've seen our characters live in. Honestly a whole game revolving around fan service would just be boring to play. Everything expected just happens, but that's why we loved the first one, it totally ignores the hero trope and shows us a real Joel, doing wrong things for his loved ones, ignoring the cost of it. With all of this said, I've found the last cutscenes to be really ambiguous and not conclusive in anyway, the main revenge plot concluded, but Ellie's life just ends up as a mystery. Not really angry about it, but I would have liked to get a more concise conclusion to Ellie's life, not just her revenge story. Leaks ruined most of the game, but I can say it's definitely worth playing and experiencing it for yourself. It won't be wasted money in any way
6345) Naughty Dog delivers another amazing title to add to their resume. I love this game! Third person action adventure at its finest! This is the most impressive, immersive and emotionally driven game I've ever had the pleasure of playing. (And replaying many times to come.) The story is phenomenal, gameplay is so thrilling and the graphics are a sight to behold. All the negative reviews are anti-LGBTQ alt-right losers, who are on the wrong side of history... again.
6346) This is THE GAME of the generation, everybody should play this, please do not listen to other people about the story being bad and about spoilers, this story is amazing, emotional and powerful, just play it and you will be impressed, it is a pinnacle of media and video games, the storytelling is on another level, and experience, when you finish all of it, is worth it, graphics animations and the gameplay is simply ND magic and they pushed the bar with this game, personally best game EVER made.
6347) This game is absolutely perfect. Story may not be what everybody was expecting but it makes complete sense. Gameplay is superb! The game is big and full of places to explore. Don't listen to the negative user reviews. I bet the majority of those people only watched the spoilers and haven't played the game.
6348) This was an absolutely heartbreaking, disturbing, and upsetting game to play. And I loved it. This made me reexamine the relationship I had with my father, hatred, and human nature. This is a controversial game and I think everyone should at least play it all the way through and then have an opinion on it. There were times I wanted to put the controller down and never pick it up, but I couldn't do that to myself. I think that people have given this game a bad rap because the story does things they don't like. If a story only does good things to characters you love then you can NEVER have any good growth or conflict. If someone plays through this whole story and doesn't like it. That's fine, it's not for everyone and people are entitled to their own opinion. I think many of these negative reviews aren't by people who actually played it all the way through. There is no way this game deserves less than a 5/10. The graphics and gameplay alone are a 10/10.,Long story short: play the game with an open mind, and prepare to be upset, disappointed, angry, and heartbroken. This is a story about human nature. The good, the bad, and the ugly of human nature.
6349) The best Game ive ever played. Naughty Dog, Thanks you for many hours full of emotions. but please, I'm not going through part 3 emotionally.
6350) Gameplay was exactly what you expected it to be after playing the original.  The addition of prone and dodge are great!  The storytelling is great.  There's a long stretch at the end where i couldn't put it down for about 4-6 hours!  Lots of twists and turns.  You'll enjoy your time and well worth the 20-30 hours you'll put into it exploring and experiencing the story.
6351) Great game, sad story, but the game itself is really wonderful. Amazing graphics and environments.
6352) Masterpiece. The graphics, the story (even if I would have like 1 or 2 things to turn out differently..) are amazing. I enjoyed every single minute of the game.
6353) Regarding the story, it seems good to me that a dramatic and dark turn has been made, since the same game means that there are neither good nor bad, that the only thing that can be found in the last of us part 2 are points of view and thoughts different from those of the protagonists, do not lie, it hurt me that Joel's death was so fast, but outside of that, the game is really fine, it has a deeper narrative and even the songs that are played in the trailers and in the game they have to do partly for the same story, an example would be true faith, which basically says that ellie's revenge is like a drug, a drug that makes you crazy, and around the game you can to see how Ellie little by little is destroying herself inside and out until she is left alone because of revenge as dyna abandons her and because of Ellie many die.,Regarding the End, it bothered me a little that ellie did not kill abby, but after a few minutes I understood that with that final flashback of joel, ellie realized that even if she kills abby, joel would not return and everything would be the same and the cycle of Vengeance would not end, what ellie does in the End is to act with the head and in the most human way possible, it is at that moment in which there is an explosion of emotions, I feel that this game was made for a more mature perspective and dark, a story that does not focus on the typical, for me the end, as sour as it may be, has seemed to me a good closure for the story of ellie, I know that many do not like the game and directly classify it as rubbish, but really the game is something that we are not used to, and for that reason and its history or gameplay, etc., at least for me it is a good game
6354) I love the last of us part II It was amazing. The last 3 chapters i was a mess everything was so intense and real touching. I'm already waiting for the part 3 please Neil and everyone on ND make it real!
6355) I have never played such a well polished game before. Everything has detail and thought behind it. Everything from a technical standpoint is top notch. Animation, sound design, level design, exploration is all groundbreaking. There’s a fluid mix of linear and partly open world elements. Dina and Ellie has a great dynamic and character interpretation is well explored. The setting and theme of the game is present througout the whole experience and Neil Druckman largely succeeds in what he set out to do with creating discussion and moral reflection. Storytelling is masterful and i had a blast playing.
6356) The game looks amazing, improving on even the last of us remastered and looks better than Naughty Dog's uncharted 4.,The game play is more refined but does not excite in anyway as it is pretty much same as the last game.,,The story was brilliant in the last game but something has gone horribly wrong for this sequel, apart from shoe horning politics into this once loved franchise.,The game not only kills off a beloved character but in the manner it was done makes you question if the sequel was really made by the same company as the first game.,Joel the main character in the first game, is a person that hardly trusts anyone in the first game but in the second game he trusts the character that ends up killing him so easily, completely out of character.,Not only that but you are forced to play this character right after she kills Joel and with objective to kill the other main character from first game and to make things worse the game tries to make you like her by implying she is not really a bad person which totally does not work.,The game also has many plot holes as a result of such terrible writing and feels so rushed.,Well done naughty dog for ruining the franchise and your fans trust.
6357) So you are not letting people to be honest about thsi game ah?? my score is 2/10 TLOU was a masterpiece of storytelling but this... This is the most  disrespectful  way to destroy a game that all the community loved...NOBODY WANTS TO PLAY AS ABBY JEEZ she killed JOEL!!!! do you even know who Joel is for this game??
6358) Visuals are alright. That's about the only good thing about this game and I don't know about you, when someone asks me my opinion on someone and all I can say is their... pretty, that's not a compliment.
6359) Very emotional game, i felt everything playing this masterpiece... it really hurts somethimes, but i understand the story and the message that NaughtDog tell to us that is  the cost of the revenge and at the end you can choose to do the right thing... i really enjoy playing it, as Ellie and also as Abby. And like Niel said, this game is not for all player, some tlou fan can dislike the game and if you looking for a game to have fun, tlou2 is not one of them..... I personally had a lot of fun playing it.  MASTERPIECE.,,PS i hope my english was not that bad... Im still learning it.
6360) After 24 hours I finally completed the game and I must say it's just as good if not better than the first game. My only complaints is that maybe you play as Abby for a little too long and gameplay got monotonous, specially on day 2. I understand that some people dislike the choices the writers made but I think they pulled it off in a way I didn't expect, I even played the game having read a lot of spoilers but that didn't take anything away from me because I believe you really have to experience this game and play it for yourself till the end to understand the choices the characters made.,,I see some people say that they don't like the game because they don't like abby, but in my opinion the game doesn't really try to make you like her, they make you see that her motives are just as valid as Ellie's for doing what she did and puts thing in a different perspective, and to be honest Abby has some of the most intense and fun parts of the game.,,My only issues with the story are Abby's motivations to save Lev and his sister and MAYBE some issues with it's structure, it may have been better to mix up playing as Abby and Ellie a little more but, I get why they didn't do that but still. When seeing Abby's side of the story I really liked all the new characters they introduced and they all felt so fleshed out, specially Owen, I even felt terrible because I already knew what Ellie did to them (this is why I think the game is structured how it is).,,Not to mention gameplay was fun and devastating as **** it's the best looking game ever, the soundtrack is so beautiful and push the important moments of the story and the environments have so much detail and love put into them.,,My expectations with this game were as high as they come and it met them. I do feel really sad for how divided the fan base will be now and I really wished everyone enjoyed this game as much as I did, but come on people, it's not even close to a 0.
6361) This game is too good as much as its first installment is what a post apocalyptic pandemic should be and with all the harshness that implies, just for selling with the issue of homosexuality that is shown on the streets of Seattle my rating is 9 with respect to  everyone else is a 10
6362) The game has a complex plot that will make many cry. Fans of part 1 may not like it, but this is a story to be expected. The plot is very strong, I really want to see part 3 of the game.
6363) The best game of this generation. Thank you Naughty Dog for this masterpiece!
6364) A great game with excellent graphics, mechanics and gameplay, as well as a story that is memorable. The game is very emotional, it is the second game that caused me so much emotion - the first was the first part of The Last Of US :),,As for me, an outstanding game - 10/10
6365) Great and immerse story telling. This is not light happy ending tipic story. This is the real world guys... All cry baby give score 1...,This game is awesome
6366) So unpredictable game amazing story with amazing graphics this is an absolute masterpiece enjoyed every second of the game please avoid spoils buy a game play it then judge :) i am really hard to get on with a game only games i played completely were tlou 1 tliu2 and uncharted and i have got ps4 for 4 years it says all
6367) Great gameplay. Joel dying moves the story along. Playing as Abby is fun despite what some people say (her combat style is basically Joel). I don’t love the anti-revenge statement of the game because it is somewhat nonsensical at times. However, I think the writers did a good job humanizing characters you initially hate / don’t understand.
6368) Best game ever! Only game to beat the first one in absolute amazing story/feeling/emotion/gameplay. Easily 10
6369) Incredible game, visually stunning, gameplay incredibly fun, that allows a loro of different approaches ti every situation, directed and interpreted better than most of movie out there, Joel's death Is heartbreaking for sure, but It opens to a different and refreshing story, rather than a copy and paste of the first game. The story Is really well paced and no, i don't see any nd agenda, just two great charachters in love with each other.
6370) Good afternoon everyone!,First of all, I would like to say it has been my favourite video game until today. I have finished it this morning. Graphics are incredibly developed to show all the gore acts and landscapes, getting little details inside a semiopened world, perfect for this type of video game where I didn't want a huge map but, at least, a little bigger than the ones used in the last of us 1.,The different messages used by the director are incredibly polemic and underlined by our today's society unacceptability . We are allways annoyed by any little thing again our point of view and I think this perfect.,The couple of lesbians, the development of different revenges, friendships, love, lies, growing as human beings, everything showed from a very realistic perspective... One person is not always good but also, he or she is not always bad. That hue of black and white is fantastic, achieved incredible well here.,Moreover, this video game breaks with the typical formula of having only one group of heros, creating the perspective of the main enemy and I love it. I love it very very very much. Because of that, my favourite character is Abby and not Ellie or other one.,The story was the last of us and it wasn't Ellie and her daddy.,I felt really bad the first time I played with Ellie and I saw the death of Joel but, in the end, I understand he was an awful murderer and he deserved to die as he died because of his past actions.,As I previously said, there aren't a  good or bad side and that is incredible.,You can enter inside a lot of stories, knowing the development of different characters  until their deaths. And yeah, it is crazy, everyone dead, but we are in an appocalyptic world and it is almost impossible to live for a long time.,After the end scene, we will not know if Ellie will live another day or if Abby and Lev will find the fireflights or another violent group. However, that creativity to surprise me and enter inside the feelings of every single character, entering inside the shoes of everyone is brutal for me.,The playability is increbidly better that it's antecestor. Crawling, with more types of enemys, different types of scenarios adequate to the fight, more difficulty, more objects and weapons, etc.,Sincerely, I don't understand the amount of bad critics and hatter received by this video game. Of course, this is not the game and the plot that someone will imagine. But that is the point and the beauty of this beast.,I played the last of us 1 one week before the second one. Because of that, I don't have any type of nostalgya and with that in mind, I mark this video game with a 10 because the first one was a 10 for me and this one is better than the first game without doubt. And why? Because this plot not only touches the story of Joel and Ellie, but that story and other ones like the one of Lev, Abby, the goddes (who I believe she is the mother of Ellie and because of her inmunity she was proclaimed as a god for that community, she is white-skinned and the same colour of hair), wolves mates, lev's family, Isaac, jacksons, etc.,I want to congratulate nauthydogs for this title and thank them the 35 hours of gameplay in the tough difficulty. I really enjoyed this game and wow, we have to be more humans and this is not a game for ever type of public. Very bloody violent, an adult plot, different from the other ones, without superheros, and with a lot of incredible details and scenes to make you feel the feelings of the characters behind the screen.,Brutal and Bravo!,This is a real videogame with all the letters and I will wait for more like this one.,Thank you naughty dogs, for your late opportunity. I didn't play this videogame and the first one until this month but it was completely worth time.
6371) Another masterpiece. Thank you so much for taking med on this journey Naughty Dog! First of many play through of this wonderful game.
6372) Passed this Wonderful game, time 29:33, the difficulty level is normal. The game is just Great, there is one point that in my opinion is stupid. But overall I am very pleased with the game, thanks to the Noughty Dog,developers. A very strong and adult game.,P. S. Dear metacritical administrators, it’s time for you to make such an option in which you need some evidence that the person leaving the review has passed this or that game. thanks
6373) I honestly don't understand how anyone can be so butt hurt from these trivial issues (or in this case, non-issues). I have read through all the controversies and opinions after finishing the game and I honestly cannot empathize with any of them.,,TLoU2 is a phenomenal game that has set new heights for story, graphics, gameplay, and much much more. It was extremely immersive. The artful character development was felt through my playthrough in a way that I have never experienced before in my 15+ years of playing video games. Including TLoU Part 1. The development of the story is completely valid in my opinion, especially given the circumstances and setting. And honestly how privileged do you have to be to get angry or upset just because the author didn't write the story the way you wanted?,,If you are like me who simply want to enjoy a great story and gameplay, please ignore these ignorant and close-minded bigots. Just sit back and enjoy the ride. Solid 10/10. Well done, Naughty Dog!
6374) This is not an arbitrary 10 whatsoever. Be a bigot, say you hate Abby and all that means nothing to me. I have been writing professionally for 15 years. I was a combat journalist in the United States Navy and I have seen the dark side of life. I understand people were attached to Joel and placed his FICTIONAL character on a pedestal but that goes to show how many of you miss the entire point of the world of Last of Us. There are no good guys and bad guys. Their are just people and worse people doing all they can to survive. This is a world where a clicker can jump you in 2 seconds flat an end your life. You DO NOT DESERVE  a heroes death, because there are no heroes. Ellie and Abby are a dichotomy. An exploration of each other by playing as the OTHER. Ellie was safe for 4 years. She had love, friends and a completely safe haven to live in where she only needed to kill clickers and the occasional hunter. Thats why Joel's death broke her and made her go off the deep end. On the flip side Abby's life was always death at every corner. Her father shot in his face for trying to save the world and then for FOUR YEARS she was part of the WLF as THE TOP SCAR KILLER as they call her. She had become desensitized to her own loss of morality. Notice how Ellie always had a recurring dream of Joel's death and Abby of her fathers death. They both were haunted by death because their minds were dead set on revenge. They had lost the ability to empathize in this world. They could not see the others perspective which is why we PLAYED AS BOTH PERSPECTIVES. To show you that both of these people love, feel, struggle, hate, lose, win, cry, laugh. But they will also do whatever it takes to survive and protect what is theirs because in this world that is all they have. There are no bad guys or good guys in this world. Only those people and things you can carry with you because everything else you take is a risk. If you watch the Joel death scene you realize through FANTASTIC ANIMATION his facial expression when he realizes the girl he did not perceive as a threat Abby ( WHO IS THE SAME AGE AS ELLIE) was the one he actually should have been worried about. But you see on his face in that moment the regret. He got comfortable. He allowed himself to let his guard down living in Jackson and it cost him his life. But then at the end of the game they have the scene with Joel and Ellie where he tells her he is at peace with his decisions and would DO IT ALL OVER AGAIN because in the end he got his girl. That is a metaphor for his death as well. He would make all the same mistakes again as long as he had his baby girl. That writing. This was the SADDEST game I have ever played. I legit teared up at the end. I will not talk about technical prowess because that aspect is not debatable. Naughty Dog has by far the most polished world building, gameplay and animation in the game. I just wanted to lay out the story for people. If you have not played this game please do not be bias and go in with pre conceived notions. Give this game its just due........It is a MASTERCLASS.
6375) Everything about this game is perfect, from the masterclass sound design to the fantastic graphical display. The set pieces landed in all the best ways and the gameplay throughout was smooth and perfect. That being said the main issue that people had with the game is the story. I believe the story to be one of the best most emotional stories I have ever had the pleasure of experiencing. It is a truly emotional and complex crisscrossing of narratives that nails the somber tone that I would expect from this universe. Is this game the last of us 1? No of course not and for that I think we are lucky because this game progresses this franchise so much further then I expected and I look forward to any possible continuation of this series.
6376) **** knows why people are bombing this game on the reviews the gameplay was awesome the story was nothing like I expected the harsh reality of the game kept me on the edge of my seat it was an emotional rollercoaster! Currently on my second play through trying get the platinum
6377) Amazing game.  One of the hardest games to get through in the best kind of way.  It's amazing how you can have one idea of who you are and who you're rooting for, then just flip that on its head.  Haven't had a "are you sure you're the good guy" moment like this since spec ops the line.  Also I fail to see what people are talking about, there's no politics in this game at all.  Just revenge. And loss and sadness.
6378) I thought part II was a beautiful game. It is heartbreaking, very emotional, and the gameplay is hands down amazing. The character development is a little eh, but I enjoyed the game nonetheless. Thank you, Naughty Dog, you didn’t disappoint me.
6379) This game leaves a pain in the heart, especially when it is said and done. It never goes the way that you want it to go or you would think it would go. Every character in the game has his own motives, drives and also demons that fights inside. The game does a great job puting you in the shoes of these characters and somehow justify their actions as brutal as they may seem. At first i was really sceptical of the way Naughty Dog decided to go with the story, but when i finished it, I had no doubt in my mind that they did an extraordinary job. The epilogue of the story was the part that made it in my mind one of the greatest games i have ever played. It really closed very well a cycle of revenge and also actions that had no turning back, to the point that makes you wonder how did we come to this and was this vengeance really worth it after all? But just as real life you just have to look forward and live with them.
6380) genre defining game, amazing physics and lighting, truly a must play. Well written and directed. Only negatives is that the controls can be a bit clunky on occasion, although improved after update and the camera angle can be annoying
6381) great game... ok the score makes me think that it is not a game for everyone. However if you can understand what the director is trying to say, you will love it's story.
6382) The story is emotional and make you confused because every side has its own kindness, yet have to fight and get revenge each other. I don’t get it why people hate it so much.,It is not as bad as you think it is, play it until the end and you’ll see.
6383) Greatest game I have ever played. The story progression was amazing. Playing as both Ellie and Abby allowed me to see both sides of the story and empathize with Abby after hating her and not being able to wait to kill her. I love that ND changed my point of view just like Ellie's changed. The character development of both Ellie and Abby was outstanding. This game was well worth the 7 year wait.
6384) Best part was the music from start to end and graphics are beautiful that's all I see fit for my review everything else is tarnished!
6385) Best game of century. Best gameplay. Story telling and graphic design.i finished this game tonight.my cigarette packet is empty.
6386) Thats is a AMZING game. Nice graphics, nice level design. Etc. Incredible game.
6387) This game is amazing. Emotionally draining but Amazing! It subverts expectations and improves the gameplay of the original and has some of the best combat and graphics im any modern game.
6388) One of the best games of all time. Ignore the trolls who still care about gender issues. This is a story about violence and its effect on people. It is so good.
6389) No idea why this game has been bombed on the user rating here. It’s a clear and absolute 10/10 in my book.
6390) i had a great  time  playing lou2 I was upset at first and gave it a chance so glad i did because i loved it
6391) Honestly being a fan of the first game and seeing how everything has evolved that was truly amazing great combo with the amazing graphics on every character but this game really shocked me it had everything amazing action,quality cutscenes,gore and out standing deaths obviously loving the characters i was stunned when they died but just like a real death they disappeared as fast as they appeared it had a full circle of content good fighting deaths of loved ones emotions everything this is truly a masterpiece i havnt played a game that really shook me this bad after a death in a long time this is truly a game that I connected with thank you.
6392) I very much enjoyed TLOU 2.,(NO SPOILERS),,I replayed The Last Of Us remastered the week before part 2 released so it was very easy to compare the two. The original is a 10/10 but does have its flaws. I forgot how little dialogue there actually is between Ellie and Joel and how much of the game is spent running around in silence. I have heard a lot of people saying they loved the first game but hated the second one; yet many of the flaws they passionately criticize in this new release are very much present in the original. Personally I thought part two was a very smart continuation of the story that answered many questions from the 1st game. It also provided ample fuel for speculation and discussion, similar to the ending of the original. Having played both games back to back, I can say that they actually match up well and are directly intertwined in fundamental ways that I found satisfying as a longtime fan of the original.,,I took my time with this game and it is a BIG game. The amount of content provided blows away almost all similarly priced games and delivers an exceptional amount of value for $60. Coming from someone who thought Uncharted 4 was a blast but ended too suddenly, the scope of the Last of us 2 allows you to fully immerse yourself in the world. The documents and collectibles available in the game are actually fun and engaging this time around, and seriously help to flesh out the story and add atmosphere. Collectibles were a major disappointment in the original and I was thrilled to see Naughty Dog put much more effort into them this time around. I enjoyed exploring every single zone to fully take in the visuals and discover hidden secrets, and it felt rewarding to do so.,,Speaking of visuals, this game is stunning from beginning to end. It is by far the best looking game of this generation and even people who hate the story can't help but praise how damn good this thing looks. The frame rate remains silky smooth even in the largest open spaces and during frantic combat. Not once did a technical glitch break my immersion and I always felt fully in control of my character. The variety of locations and color pallets will make you stare in awe, sometimes for minutes at a time.,,After replaying the original, it was clear to me that combat needed improvement. Part 2 improves upon the original's game play in almost every way. It is tense and brutal, but also carries with it a huge amount of variety and player choice. Your character has much more momentum and when your stealth plan breaks down, you can sprint and hide and ambush even in the heat of battle. The game also features an incredibly good checkpoint system that consistently updates your progress mid encounter, but that will also allow you to completely start over if you wish. Restarting from your checkpoint takes less than 2 seconds which allows you to easily rectify a missed headshot that alerts the whole camp. I found myself using this feature often so that I could play through each encounter in a way that felt tactical and satisfying. I never lost more than a minute of progress and load times were basically nonexistent. Although the combat is some of the most realistically portrayed violence in a game, it never felt too over the top or in bad taste. If you shoot someone in the head they die instantly; if you shoot someone in the neck it is also an instant kill but they sputter and choke for a few seconds before falling silent. It added a certain realism but never made me feel uncomfortable. I actually had fun much the same way adults enjoy a good R rated movie such as gladiator for realistically portraying violence.,,Finally to address the story. It is complicated, non-linear and gives the player many opportunities to draw their own conclusions and make their own judgments. I must mention that this ambiguity was openly praised in the original, and what made the original's ending so good is undeniably present in part 2. Personally I found the story mature, heartfelt, tragic, and believable. I didn't cry the way I did during parts of the original, but I very much enjoyed the expertly crafted tale. You will not end this game with a feeling of "OMG I have chills" such as I felt upon completing Bioshock Infinite or the original TLOU. Instead this story is very much a sum of its parts that leaves you pondering and recalling details long after completion. I felt a little let down by the end, but the longer I think about it, the more everything seems to tie together into a masterful work of art. It is not perfect, but is so carefully crafted that I don't feel in a position to point out a specific change or flaw, for doing so would potentially ruin the cohesive tale and emotional impact of the game.,,In conclusion, very few games match the high bar Naughty Dog has set. If you absolutely hate exploration, looting, 3rd person shooting and complicated stories I can understand a 8/10 review.,,Buy this game!!!
6393) I actually played the game. It’s one of the best stories since the first game. Can’t wait for TLOU3, I hope Abby gets more muscular and Ellie is even gayer just to piss the haters off. But seriously great game, powerful story and Neil I expect my check in the mail.
6394) The best PS4 game of 2020.,With Part II, Naughty Dog has outdone himself with some of the most meticulously determined levels and environments I've ever seen in a game.,The story is extremely good. If it allows you to get involved from start to finish, like in a movie, it leaves you in shock. What game in history has never been achieved.,Of graphics I do not tell you, look at it!,And as we say in Argentina, simply give me what you like best and nothing else!
6395) Is the best game I played in my life, touch my heart and i cry a lot in all cutscenes
6396) I don't think any game will make you feel so many emotions. I really enjoyed it, the gameplay was alot of fun. Play it for yourself then make a judgement.
6397) Ok, so Naughty Dog lied to us in the marketing of this game, which I guess is one of the reasons so many people hate this game. This has nothing to do with divert expectations, it's just plain lying and whoever made that decision should be fired. It made people think it was one thing when in fact it is something completely different and so much more than was expected.,,Having said that, and after finishing the game in one weekend, I can only say that this is an absolute masterpiece. Not only technically but also in regards of the storytelling.,,What this game does to the player is more than many people can handle and it is reflected in the amount of negative reviews here. TLOU Part 2 does not simply let you play emotions, it makes your feel ALL of them. I get it, this is not easy digestible entertainment that makes you feel good. But it all makes sense and I feel it all is very relatable as the story fits perfectly in the setting of the game.,,It is not a pleasant experience and it's not supposed to be, but in the end it all worth it. I loved the story and all the main characters in it, no matter if they are like-able or not.,,A game is, just like any other work of art, a contemporary document and snapshot of the times it was created in. And we are living in very complex, divided and brutal times and the game does pick up some contemporary issues. But none of it is forced and even results in some of the most amazing gameplay this game has to offer.,,Like most of you I have played a lot of amazing and great games, but I have never played anything like Part 2. I loved the first one and I love this one even more.,,This is, if it is not surpassed by Cyberpunk 2077, definitely the GOTY, and for me personally, it is probably even the SINGLE BEST GAME of this generation.
6398) I can tell that this is the best game that I ever played and I think they should make more games like this I never saw a story like this in a game or even a movie
6399) This game make me sad and happy at the same time. Thank you Naughty Dog. You made something special right here.,P.S. haters going to forget but people who loved that going to love that whole life.
6400) Amazing graphics, environments and sound with improved game play.  One of the best games of the generation.
6401) Truly a masterpiece. Gameplay, graphics, characters, overall atmosphere. Game has some problems with storyline but even if u think that main story is bad - it doesn't deserve 0/10. im rate it for 10 only because whole bunch of idiots decide that its good too just ruin the game rating for no reason at all. Honestly - 7.5/10
6402) I hate SJWs as much as anyone. "Neil F***ing C-u-c-k-mann" I thought.  I came very close to skipping this game out of principle. Wow! I'm glad that I didn't. Put simply, this game is a masterpiece. Anyone giving it a rating lower than a 6 either hasn't played it or has an axe to grind. Watching 1 1/2 hours of  leaked cutscenes/gameplay does not accurately reflect the 30+ hour experience. Admittedly, some may be pissed by some of the story arc and the fact that Abby was unnecessarily "de-sexualized" to appease PITA feminists like Anita Sarkeesian, but this does not negate how awesome the overall game is. Days Gone (another outstanding game) was unfairly bashed by professional critics for not catering to SJWs. Don't let an even better game suffer because of overblown SJW influence. Hands down, this is the best game that I have ever played. Immersive. Beautifully detailed. Lots of jump scares. Hollywood level animation in both cutscenes and gameplay. Buy it!
6403) Great game: It is a shame that Joel had to die, but Tlous part 2 is about hate, the players should feel this hate.  I also liked the ending, because it also brings an important message, namely that revenge is not good and that violence leads to violence more and more, an eternal cycle.  Elli could understand Abby's motivation and managed to forgive her because Joel certainly wanted it that way
6404) Immersive, heartbreaking, magnificent gameplay... this game has it all. Thank you naughty Dog. I really hope there will be a part III plzzz
6405) I personally loved the game. A few narrative choices may not have been my favorite, but as a whole package, this game was an amazing experience for me. A lot of the hate it's recieving is pretty ridiculous in my opinion. Calling it trash and rating it a zero just seems a bit melodramatic.
6406) Great game and action, for me story was good and all of that stuff, i like the gameplay everything about it was almost perfect
6407) This is an amazing game, top tier game, is wonderful how you see the characters in differents points of views, it is an amazing way to go depply inside the story lane, the ending is something you think about, is a good ending, a weird one but when you play you need to put on the shoes of the characters, its a good ending on the violence cicle a magnificent game, enviroment and gameplay.,I enjoy every moment in this game and I will play this game all over again, the combat in this game is magnificent.
6408) I don’t get all the haters. It’s an awesome game with great story arc and very unique narrative (I’m 18 hrs in the game),,Buy it.
6409) Played the game took me 30 hours to complete enjoyed every second of it ! Seen cry babies cry about the ending and what not .. Ya'll need to chill it might a setting for the next one or we dont know .. we dont know ! Pros :,1.Game is fun 10/10,2. Animations , graphics , voice acting , characters 10/10 3. Level designs 10/10 4. Plot is amazing , its a revenge story so what more to expect ! Stop comparing this to the first game !,,all the hate around it is just for clout imo . people hating wont affect it !
6410) It’s an amazing game, It conveys incredible emotion. What a pity that it’s so poorly rated. I’m great full to the development team for making this great piece of art.
6411) Don't believe the naysayers. This game is amazing. Grarphics, sound, and story is all great. Play it till the end, dont be like the others.
6412) Great game and graphics, awesome soundtrack and a very tragic story about revenge
6413) Guess whoever wrote the story think he/she did a great Job, I aint blowing any smoke up your bottom. If you want to torture people with your unrealistically pompous and virtuous story line, airdrop copies of this game Into N. Korea. Waited 5 years for this? Graphics and whatnot Is good, but the essence which Is the story. It's just hideous. This game Is like a shiny new and good looking house. but the house Is actually riddled with venomous creatures, torturing devices. and let's add several criminals in it too. Pathetic. 白左ruin everything. Get out of my games.,I wanted to give 0 but the page kept returning HTTP ERROR 504. Let's see if 10 goes through!
6414) This game does not deserve a score below 5, I'd like to see anyone try to game with great mechanics and graphics.,The game went in a direction that not many stories would go towards, not everything is fairytale. Although I despised Abby for killing Joel as I really wanted to play as Joel, this game showed brilliantly that the so called "bad guys" of each story are not always never justified even if it is less artistic than the way the movie Joker was portrayed.,The stunning environment and graphics should mean that the game deserves atleast a 4 even if the story is pretty mediocre, rating it a 0 is just plain insulting (hence why I gave this game a 10).,,In summary: not every story should be overcome the villain because they are just plain wrong, when in reality you are fighting your own demons even when that villain shows compassion (which is a rare feat).
6415) Simply put:,Best game on PS4, ever,Best Video Game experience in my life,You just gotta play it yourself
6416) An incredible game with deep characters, complex themes and fun versatile gameplay. The ending really shows the true nature of the two main protagonists.
6417) I loved the gameplay the story turns that are not fan service and I liked that
6418) Do not get all the bad reviews at all... Enjoyable game with great graphics and brilliant voice acting. Storyline was unpredictable but not unbelievable and showed a realistic story for this world!
6419) Literally the best game I’ve ever witnessed. All of the main characters are well developed and the story really drives home all sides of the the revenge story. The only reason people are rating it poorly is because they’re homophobic. Ellie is a lesbian, there’s a trans character, literally get over it. I guarantee everyone rating this poorly has never gotten laid in their life and has a micro p*nis. #LesbianRights
6420) Best game i have ever played, easily. Gice it a chance and be open minded and you might find a great game here.
6421) One of the greatest games I’ve ever played!,Maybe some people hated the game because of the end, but i think that the end had a deep massage that revenge could take everything from you and make you lonely,So in the end Ellie realized that the revenge won’t fix anything and won’t bring joel back to life, so she let abby go away.
6422) Literally a perfect game. much needed combat boosts to the first game like being able to go prone. people that don’t like this game seriously are just childish. this isn’t supposed to be happy, this isn’t a fairytale game. hell the last game really didn’t even end off on a great note but a much needed introspective one. look inside yourself and realise what kind of **** you’re going through. this game has surely made me a better person for playing it, don’t let the negative user reviews sway you from this game. people are just salty. did the story drag on? sure. but you bet your ass it’s going to beat common sense into you the whole damn way, which unfortunately isn’t common these days.
6423) The game is a Master peace!!!! One of the best games i ever played, very good.
6424) I just finished the game. And honestly, it is one of the best games I have ever played. Brave storytelling by NaughtyDog. Amazing visuals. Unique gameplay. It’s something else.
6425) One of the (if not) best games of the decade. Everything is just perfect and evolutionary. The people who hates this game are mostly the ones who knew the story before playing it. Who read the spoilers. But this game is not meant to be read from a few pages or watching a 20 minutes long video. This game is meant to be played. You have to experience everything by yourself. Only then you will truly understand what this game is trying to tell you. Which is, there is no black nor white. Everything and everyone is grey. The good are not good and the bad are not bad. Everyone is simply human and we all have our inner demons as well as our conscience.
6426) 10/10,Being a huge fan of the first game, i was kinda disappointed with the story but that doesn't mean that the game isn't amazing. As neil druckmann said, it's not for everybody. I wish the story was different but the game just shows that not everything goes right in a world of apocalypse.
6427) Amazing game, even better than previous. Story is heartbreaking and moving. I love how they manage to break misconceptions.
6428) Don't know why internet is so tantrum,If you can feel any strong emotional that mean the media is success,I still can feel how hard I squeez to my controller for that scen and that's awesome
6429) Amazing game, best of the genre, thank u naughty dog!,Im gonna play this game one more time for PLATINUM! Tahnk u!
6430) This is a very cool game! Very good story and excellent graphics! One minus is the gameplay. It could be made more diverse.
6431) This game is a masterpiece. Affecting story, evolved gameplay. Initially it wasn't what I wanted after the original, but after a single 30 hour playthrough it solidifies its merits.
6432) Unbelievable story. Didn't think they could top part 1, but somehow managed to do it. There will never be another game like this. What an experience.
6433) TLOU 2 is a game that you need to play with some empathy. They didn't give us the game we wanted, we didn't have the plot we thought we would had, but the message they sent is strong and also really important nowadays. The story is not poor like some people say, the story is really well writen and the characters are amazing, it's just not what the fans where hoping for and it's sad that just because they don't have it they call the game bad. It's not, it's a great game full of emotion and with a really good message. The work behind TLOU 2 is big, they deserve better.
6434) This game is just perfect and I don't care what others say or think. But I enjoyed the game from start to finish.
6435) TLOU2 is a masterpiece, ellie's quest for revenge is brutal and exciting, the gameplay has significantly improved from the first game, and the ending has a very strong meaning and message.
6436) I have no idea why this incredible game I getting bombed so much. Maybe from the internalised homophobia and misogyny. I can name 1 other game with a gay woman in it. As a lesbian, this game really resonated with me. Do you have any idea how many games, films, tv shows, books I've had to sit through about straight men? Yo . You should all be ashamed. Joel couldnt live forever, that would be boring. Get over yourselves and just take the game for what it is. A damn masterpiece
6437) First and for most, I write this review for people who HAS ps4 and actually will play the game, or thinking about getting it.,All the twitter/reddit  degenerates who hate just to hate and watched several minutes of the game(most frequently it's first 20 and last 15 minutes of the game) Go and stay in the **** you are . Basically you  defame the userscores as a thing, potentially forcing the metacritic and the publishers to shut it down forever, as long as they pretty much have no choice at the current state.,,So the game, to tell the long story short. It’s a masterpiece and almost perfect by all means including story.,1.	The Story,Although the story is not like any other, structure is far from standard tropes, it takes your feelings, your love to the characters and the first game and just smash you with all emotions that possible, you feel scary, pity, thrill, tension, nostalgic, happy, good sadness about the old times and awful sadness about how the life are going now and what the circumstances can do with your beloved people. All of this mixed through the game in the most unexpected way you can think of, and in many ways you even can’t thing of. I’m not spoiling anything so I will not tell you about what will happen, experience it yourself.,Just to tease: it’s about the different truths, being blind when being led by strong emotion, meaninglessness of violence and how it’s never late to break the circle, even when you have lost yourself. This story can make you depress at some part, be ready for that, but this is done with the reason in mind. One of the best stories in years.,2. The graphics,Here I shall put it as simple as it is. The most technologically advanced game of this gen, just check the DF video (but please for the God, don’t read the comments),3. The Gameplay,Take all you love in the first game gameplay, enhance it in every single aspect and you will get the TLOU 2 game formula. It’s THIS good. Action is faster, impact from weapons and the enemy reactions are best in the whole industry ever. You actually can choose playstyle, in case you don’t like stealth – than don’t go for it, the ND have given you the advanced settings, so you can tune it as it fits your mind, want the most adrenaline tps game ever? Fine, make the enemies aggressive and let the resources be many all around. Like to survive and hide? Not a problem too, there is amazing survival mode for you. In the gameplay aspect there is no other game on the market right now in June 24, 2020.,Verdict,One of the best game in this generation, it’s swan song, just like the fist one was in it’s time.,TLOU 2 can and will make you complete crazy, in every way.,Totally, full-fledged 100 of 100
6438) Terrific game, beautiful graphics and sound. My only gripe was that it was a few hours longer than I would have liked.
6439) Best ps4 game !,Best Game of the consoles Generation.,Great history,Good Job,Please, need the last of us part lll as soom posible
6440) Its not as bad as everyone said , definitely worth  it . Stop being salty and this is not adventures of joel
6441) This game is not only about vengeance, its mostly about forgiveness, and how forgiveness is not a favor you do to others, its for you. And if you don't find that beautiful to see so deeply in a video game, then you're not going to enjoy this game story, at all.,,SPOILERS:,,In the beginning I was so angry at Abby, I wanted revenge at any cost, and was so upset, sad, heartbroken with Joel's death. That didn't change along the game, but I just sit there and played, paying attention to every detail as possible specifically how gorgeous and detailed the world that Naughty Dog created for this game is. When Jesse died, I got really upset again, seriously I felt so disrespected by this girl Abby that came out of nowhere and the game just cut to the cutscene where you start to get to know who the **** is this girl that killed my beloved Joel. Did it change my mind about her? No. But I got to know why she planned to kill Joel her entire life, since her dad was murdered by him, and he was the doctor who's gonna maybe save humanity getting the cure out of Ellie. Did it change my mind about Joel's decision? Hell no. Considering that, and that the main point of mid game is to show you both sides, when the game goes to Ellie again, after a freaking terrifying fight where I almost lost my heart thinking Ellie or Dina were going to die too, the game sends you to what was supposed to be a "happy ending" for Ellie, Dina and JJ (their baby). But yeah another scene of Joel layed on the floor, the saddest scene of all game cames out to disturb Ellie, and we see that she can't get that out of her mind, of course totally understandable. Then comes a scene that I found myself super happy because Tommy was alive! But when Tommy got mad at Ellie because she doesn't want to risk her family to pursuit that vengeance, I felt really sad. But anyways, she can't be in peace, she goes on another journey to find Abby and revenge Joel's death. In this part I was actually worried about her and how she was going to lose everyone she loves in exchange for nothing. Because that's the point right? Is killing Abby going to bring Joel back to life? No. That's a hollow you can't actually fill. You have to give time to time. In the end, when Ellie almost left without even fighting Abby, Joel's corpse comes again to her, and she decided one more time that she couldn't let Abby go. But when she's almost drowning her to death, another memorie comes. Her last talk with Joel, in the night before the day he left her life forever. What is cool about this scene, is that we clearly see that Ellie got so upset on Joel, that she maybe could not forgive him, but she would like to try. And that's what matters, as long as she forgives him, she will be with only good memories about him. This is SO hard to think about and fully understand, or worse, to do it (included myself of course). But I found that so beautiful to see in a videogame guys. That's how much she loves him, that vengeance was nothing compared with her love for Joel, and it was not going to bring him back, it was just going to bring more disgrace to her life. Of course she actually learned that in the worst way possible. And the fact that she releases Abby in that moment, for me was the time that she began to truly forgive Joel.
6442) Absolutely incredible. Never in my life as a game left me with tears running down my face. When I first started playing as Abby I was pissed I had to play was the person who tortured and murdered Joel. After "Day 2" I had no choice but to be invested in her story. I was again upset when I had to attack Ellie and then elated when Lev stops "me" from murdering Dina. When Ellie tracks Abby down in California I was fully prepared to murder Abby but she had Lev with her and they were both broken, when Ellie is drowning Abby I literally had tears running down my face.,,GOTY for me, never has a game made me so emotionally invested in the "villain" (whatever that means), because in Abby's story Ellie is the villain, so to be able to see both sides made me rethink how much I hated Abby in the beginning. Such an amazing and unique way to tell a story.
6443) I loved this game, it was stunning and had a compelling storyline that makes you think about your own personal morals and beliefs. Loved the representation of asian ,lgbt and strong non sexualized female characters throughout the game which is something you don't see very often. They took a very big storytelling risk with this one, and in my opinion, it paid off. The gameplay and attention to detail was also phenomenal. Amazing game
6444) Fantastic game. Don't listen to the haters. Play it for urself. Don't give in to the homophobes and the ultra conservative mentality
6445) Despite the unwarranted criticism about Ellie's sexual choice that other players are making, I just love this incredible game.  It's fantastic. The story is well constructed and it is more than a game. It is a life experience. I recommend it to everyone to buy and play, because it deserves to be played. For me, a great catch is that we can see good or evil in each of us, and that revenge can lead us to do bizarre things. Furthermore, it shows that there is no absolute truth. The game shows that the truth and the right depends on the point of view of those who lived and observed the game events. Both protagonists believe they are right of their reasons, and both believe that the other side is the bad side. Congratulations @naughty_dog_inc on the game. Looking forward to a part III
6446) I just want to say that this game made me feel such a storm of emotions that no other caused.  this is not counting the perfect design, graphics and gameplay.
6447) Never seen a character development like this one. Abby killing Joel because of revenge, and through the game she leaves and betrays everyone to take care of a child, just like Joel in the first game! And Ellie realizing that just before killing her just made the experience mind blowing and amazing! Gameplay and animations were on point. Also, all the new bits and evolution of the relationship between Joel and Ellie was really wholesome to watch. Other point that stood out in this game was the brutality and just reality in which we as players faced through the characters, it was just an unique experience!!
6448) An amazing game, depressing, bold and thought provoking. Truly a gem if you play it with an open mind and heart.
6449) A Fantastic game, with Stunning Visuals, Memorable Characters and a Great Story! An absolute Must Buy for the PS4 and a worthy successor to part 1!
6450) Don’t understand how thousands of negative reviews came out within twelve hrs of the games release when the gameplay is 27hrs. Regardless such a beautiful game and if you ve been persuaded by the negativity to not play the game do yourself a huge favor and throw it all away. Buy the game and make an educated opinion for yourself.
6451) It is a very good sequel for TLOU1.LGBTQ+ in this game logically. Storyline perfect.Gameplay amazing.Graphics wonderful,but 5 years its so long.
6452) The Last of Us Part II is realy very good video game and i think game of the year is The Last of İs Part II .
6453) The Last of Us 2 has a bold story, takes a lot of risks (rare thing these days) and improve the gameplay and storytelling in videogames to a whole new level
6454) Amazing game with an incredible story. Not like most boring simple story games.
6455) Just finished... Amazing and unique experience you never had in a video game before. Masterpiece.,I feel sorry for people who saw spoilers before experiencing the whole game.
6456) Awesome game! Top 3 best games ever I have played! Thanks naughty Dog for so good experience
6457) i must redeem the internet ,this meme is gone to far this game il really good
6458) Don't listen to the Internet rage machine that review bombed this the day it came out. Especially if you're a fan of the first game. It's an absolutely fantastic ride. Loved both the story (which is gutwrenching but everything I never knew I wanted from a sequel) and the gameplay. I suspect that some of those who are nitpicking plot points and ragging on the story just don't have the emotional capacity to think a little more deeply about the game's events and themes; instead, they have a kneejerk emotional tantrum and deem things that upset them or make them sad "bad writing.",I can't say enough good things about this game. Played it all weekend after being hesitant because of the leaks and so happy I went with my gut and made the decision to go in with an open mind. It will stay with me for a long, long time.
6459) This is the best game i played since the original one. Perfect characters and the best hustory i have ever played
6460) this game is perfect !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
6461) Since the release of the game a few days back, we see tons of people giving it some bad reviews only based on their superficial perception of it. Joel's death, Abby, a vengeance incomplete, and etcetera. But, as I said, is a superficial thing, of people who maybe didn't even play the game at all.,The Last of Us 2 is a history of anger and frustration. Ellie's story about vengeance, is just a background for something a lot bigger: the human soul. When Joel die, initially you think that Ellie is just pissed and sad, and wants to kill every one who killed him, only because they killed him. But, I think that's not it. When you get to the ending, you actually see a cutscene showing exactly what Ellie and Joel talked in their last conversation, and that is why Ellie can't stand about his death.,She was so mad at him because of what he did in the fireflies hospital, that she didn't want to talk with him anymore. But, in that conversation, she says that wants to forgive him for that are ready to try it. In the first chapters of the game, while she patrol Jackson with Dina, she says that will watch a movie with him and stuff, but, it was late for that.,The frustration of treating the people you love the most poorly, and the anger of watching he die in you sight is what drives Ellie to Seattle. There, you, the player, meet Abby, and find out all about her will to do what she did, and of course, you see the regret that she carry over for doing so as she see her friends die one after the other, culminating in the lost of the most loved person for her, and in that point she is ready to kill Ellie, Tommy and Dina and get that over with, but, another wonderful character interrupts.,Abby had lost so much until that point, that she is ready to give up everything in her soul for her vengeance, but Lev's shout saying "Abby!" is just enough for her to realize that if she do that, she will never be able to live with a clear mind again, and that is why she don't kill everyone, and go live her life and follow her dreams with the only person that she loves, that is left in her life.,In that path, we go back to Ellie, and see the opposite. She can't live without getting her revenge, she is supposed to live happy with Dina and JJ, but nightmares and panic attacks with Joel's fate and the way she treated him on his last day simply don't leave her be. So, she follows Tommy's path and give up everything for vengeance, seeing Dina cry and not being able to stay in that dream.,We walk with her in the beaches of Santa Barbara, California, to see a totally different nature in there, and the graphics once more, enchant us all. And in that beautiful place, we learn that terrible things are happening, and Ellie kills a lot of people that she doesn't even know why are there or what they are doing there, just to find Abby, who they've captured. And when she does find her, she sees that Abby is almost lost. Is skinny and weak, and was left there to die, but in the moment that she frees her, Abby runs towards Lev to save him too.,That point she almost give up on the vengeance journey because she know that Lev needs Abby, and if she killed her, he was going to live alone, and most likely die... Another person who doesn't need to die, dying? Ellie can't stand that anymore, she, Abby, even you as a player, are completely tired of that story, and that sight, so she was going to let them go, but another sight of Joel dead, make her even put a knife close to Lev's throat to make Abby fight her.,And after that long, and angry, and tired fight, Ellie don't kill Abby, but get close enough to realize what Abby did realize months before her, that doing so will make her lose everything about his soul, and noticing that she already lost everything for that vengeance: the man who was her father in that chaotic world, a friend who was dear to her, a woman who she loved and a child who she loved, and most importantly: lost herself.,As I said in the beginning of this, The Last of Us Part II story, is about anger and frustration, and that this the feeling we are left when we finish the game and see Ellie walking away from the farm alone and without actually having a porpouse. She lost so much for revenge, that her life doesn't have a meaning anymore, and that was the main reason she was pissed with Joel. In her head, if she died on the Hospital for a cure, her life would have a meaning, and she was going to be free of that cruel world.,Naughty Dog and Neil Druckman in a amazing way, show us that characters in a fictional scenario most tied to reality are not immortal, and are not superhuman. They feel, they panic, they cry, and most importantly, they die, on the outside (Joel) and on the Inside (Ellie). And that is why this game is a 10, or a 100, or a 1000, whatever. That is why the game is almost perfect, because, we can't say that it is perfect, as I said the story of the game itself, show us that is impossible to be perfect.
6462) To Start my review I wanna adress the issue of the hate this game recieved. The game in my opinion has a good story it has a lot of twists and unexpected deaths like Joel’s. The ending is also very criticized because of its ending, in this aspect I do agree, the end doesn’t have a lot of sense because Ellie doesn’t care about anything but getting his revenge no matter the cost but in the ending she forgives Abby who killed Joel and lets her go and that doesn’t make any sense! Apart from the ending I think is a very good story and even made me cry at times. The game play isn’t a walking simulator because in almost every zone there is action and when there is no action the game lets you explore Seattle like in day 1 where you can explore downtown Seattle and rewards you for doing it with supplies or collectibles. The combat is also very good I feel that it’s very realistic because when an enemy sees me far away and I try to kill him with my knife I get shot multiple times until I die or I run away, maybe it’s because I’m very bad at the game and I don’t know how to evade bullets, also when you take a lot of damage while crouching down it can even knock you down, another part of the combat is the stealth and this part makes me very nervous when the enemies are infected, the stealth is easier than the first because you get a silencer that helps you to kill enemies silently faster than the bow except for when you play as Abby because you have a crossbow and it’s like a gun but with arrows.,Apart from all of this the scares actually scare me even though you can count them as cheap sometimes,That’s all :).,And yes my name is because of this hate :),Please don’t hate me it’s my first review sorry if it doesn’t make sense :>
6463) i think it's very good game for me, i know that story was little bit ****,but i dont care because i really enjoy this game
6464) I walked in a fancy restaurant, but they just presented me rotten food. I won't rate based on how good your restaurant look, but on how good the food tasted.
6465) The game is awesome from all perspectives, it may be that at some point you will not understand it completely but at the end all will be clear! And yes, once finished just start new game because it's fantastic go play! (P.s. it's the second game after Sekiro that gives me this sentiment)
6466) I liked the game. I am not a CRYBABY that will rate the game 0, beacuse they killed Joel. I think the game writing is very good(it has some flops, but nothing can be perfect and satisfy everyone) I liked playing as Abby, as much as playing with Ellie.
6467) Amazing game, no matter what the rest say its a personal experience, best grafics so far
6468) First of all I wanna say that I LIKED the game. But I must also admit that it had problems. It's strong 6/10 for me, but I can't upload my review that has lower score (shame on you for that and false advertisement, Naughty Dog).,,The graphics, sound, atmosphere - all 10/10, that's for sure. Even a gamplay was ok for me (some people consider it outdated for 2020, but I think it's alright for that game). But it means nothing if the story in the story-based game such awful. Honestly, NOT EVERYTHING is bad, there where a lot of great moments that I enjoyed. But things that are bad - they are dreadfully bad. Damn, the game sold itself to me in the trailer where Joel said he wouldn't let Ellie do it alone. It's a shame it was a false advertisement. I tried to describe my feelings and honest opinion in the text below.,,You broke my heart, Naughty Dog. I wasn't anticipating anything, I avoided all leaks about the game, I've never built up my feeling about this game, I just wanted to enjoy it, enjoy the story, return to my favorite duo J'n'E. It's not a problem, that we lost Joel, the propblem is HOW and WHEN we lost him. Especially after brothers saved Abby's life.,,"We have our own great vision about this project. We gonna crush the head of your beloved male character with a golf club in the very beginning of the story and after that you gonna play as his killer and you better love her, because she's so strong, independent, her father was killed by Joel, so he got what he deserved and bla bla bla'.,,It’s not working like that. It could if you show her story BEFORE torturing and murdering Joel, not after. Despite the thing there were few cool missions with Abby (infested building, hospital with damn bloater/clicker abomination, Scar's island) it was impossible for me to feel smth to this chatacter, it was insane to force us beat the **** out of Ellie. It just feel wrong. I felt hollow after ending the game. I felt devastated. In a very wrong way, unpleasant way. Like if I lost somebody important to me.,,You know Mr. Druckmann, Abby is no better than Joel. Joel killed to survive, to defend the girl who became a daughter to him. Abby kills everyone who is not from WLF just on sight. They are just like bandits from Pittsburgh from the first game. Even her ally Mel tell her that she's "piece of **** Always been". She just the same. But why she didn’t get punishment in the end? Why her life more precious then Joel’s? Why Ellie have lost almost everything, even her connection to Joel through playing the guitar? I fail to understand your point in the ending. Revenge is bad, okay, but Abby did almost nothing to gain redemption. When Ellie killed Mel and then found out about her pregnancy, she was frustrated. Abby was ready to kill Dina even knowing about her baby. That’s actually a person you wanna fell good about, yeah.,,I felt hollow after ending the game. I felt devastated. In a very wrong way, unpleasant way. Like if I lost somebody important to me.,,Despite everything I wrote above, I'm not hate you, Mr. Druckmann. I crave to give you another chance. You still can change the order of some chapters to make this more logical.  Show us that it's not about the money, that you still are good guys in the world full of greedy ****,,I'd like to give you 10/10. I belive a would be able to do it in future if you decide to fix the mess you created. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for the guys who just dropping the score even without completing the game. But most of all I'm sorry for you, Mr. Neil Druckmann. You could do much better than that.
6469) Game is a hands down technical marvel and achievement. Yes, the story isn’t that engaging as the first one but its not boring either. I totally agree with Naughty Dog taking a different direction for the story.,,Game runs buttery smooth on 7 yr old PS4 and Developers should be appraised for this.,,50% into the game and I can tell this game doesn’t deserve a 0 rating from people who haven’t even played.,The problem with a game having this much expectations and surrounded by hype is that it cant satisy everyone. We have seen this before, now and will see in future.,,If the game or gameplay is not changed or changed too much, anything will be criticised.,,Pros:,Gameplay,Graphics,Sound,Stealth,Environment,Accessibilty,Loading time,No bugs/issues,,Neutral:,Story,,Cons:,Too much looting of resources
6470) Beautiful game, beautiful characters, amazing gameplay. If you truly play this game through and understand the story then I don’t see why it’s getting so much hate. Sure some characters die, some choices are not ideal, but that’s just how it is. I loved the game and do not regret buying it one bit.
6471) It's honestly so odd that people dislike this game considering just how excellent it is. the plot may seem like a left field choice but I honestly loved the story choices. This isn't something for those who wanted a happy ending and things to go well for the characters we grew to like in part 1 (and honestly Joel did make such a dark choice and is by no means a hero). it's dark and complex and we need more of this non-pandering in media. I can only think naughty dog may have misjudged it's audience as this wasn't the narrative gamers wanted BUT it is an excellent narrative and would stand strong as a series or a movie. This isnt a marvel plot with heroes and villains. This is a horror game about people with questionable motivations that can be understood. the gameplay is excellent and akin to something like MGSV (not quite that flexible but the same sense of freedom)
6472) Extremely polished, technically impressive, and fun game with an amazingly told story. Truly goes to show how video games are advancing as an art form.
6473) And so, just went through the game and would like to do a review.  Behind lesbians and Abby's first breast size, a very blue plot is hidden, although not everyone sees it.  “Violence begets other violence,” said Neil Drackmann, and he did not lie.  One death gave rise to another, and that death is still a lot of deaths, and these deaths and so on.  Around Abby's insults, many may not notice that she is a very deep character who avenged her father.  What did Ellie do after that?  She also avenged her “father”, killing everyone who was dear to her.  There are no positive or negative characters in this game.  There is rather more and less evil.  And as for me the least is Abby.  But you can and should be mad at her, because what did Joel do to her?  He killed her father in order to save the girl in whom he saw his dead daughter, with the girl with whom he walked half the country.  This is paternal love.  It is not difficult for fathers to understand her, as for me, but naughty dog ​​was able to convey this love.  The same love for any person, I think I would do the same, even with my daughter, even with a girl.  This man is dear.  It was very good to show the story from Abby, so we are left with a double opinion about the characters of this game.  The end shocked me, but I am very glad that this is how it ended.  Enough was the deaths all this time, killing Ellie or Abby, the developers would have destroyed the last drop of humanity in this game, but they did not.  Yes, this is not the first part, but they are ABSOLUTELY different.  Everyone should go through it at least 2 times, it’s good that there is a “new game +”.  Everybody calls Neal, but I understood the game and I want to say thanks to Naughty dog.  Just think about it and penetrate the plot, it is very deep.  (Ellie and Abby, even here the catch in the similarity of names, which proves some genius of the developers).  This game, like a great book, you need to go beyond its borders in order to understand it more.  Dina and Jesse are characters purely for Ellie's storyline, so to speak.  Abby's storyline characters were more interesting. And this Levi’s sneakers exactly like Ellie’s sneakers from tlou part first. This unreal, this story really legendary. Thank you Neil Druckmann and Naughty dog. Thank you. It’s really bad that people can’t understand this story, it’s so deeply.
6474) The last of us part 2 is not for the faint of heart. To start, let’s talk leaks without spoiling anything. As someone who went in spoiled, I can say that it did ruin some surprise and I had prejudice going in. I must say that after playing, there are leaks that are completely false. The game does not spread any agenda other than its central theme of violence and revenge. There is no religious cults saying homophobic slurs. The character people thought was transgender is in fact a straight women. There is one trans side character and I’m sure most people wouldn’t even realize it. Gameplay: it’s still the last of us in its core, however it plays more like a metal gear game with prone added. As Ellie you are faster than Joel, constantly moving around. Playing on survival was a must for me. Every encounter must be thought about. Running and hiding is always an option. Spaces are much larger and it gives you breathing room to plan out routes to take to get an upper hand on an enemy. Upgrades are back, but this time there are different upgrade branches that you unlock by finding magazines. There are missable items/equipment so exploration is rewarded greatly. Weapons feel nice and have impact. There are new enemy types/upgraded infected from previous games that make you really think about how to approach them differently than their counterparts. They mesh together different enemies on maps together more than the first game. This game quite a few boss fights which surprised me in a nice way. Sound: beautifully orchestrated and captures the feel of the moment. Very similar to the first game. Enemies scream in agony during death. Infected sound even creepier. Clickers screeching is absolutely terrifying. Level design: absolutely amazing. Most areas have multiple paths to take. There is an open-world like section early on in the game that blew me away. There are many things to crawl under to hide, ways to sneak from one side of an area to another in fights. Items are usually in places that are intuitive. Scissors in Barber shops, scrap metal for weapon upgrades scattered on tool racks in garages, etc. overall just Well thought out level design that naughty dog is know. Graphics: best looking game I’ve seen. Better than red dead redemption 2 and anything I’ve seen on my high end pc.. and this is on a base model ps4. It’s just gorgeous to look at. Amazing feat.,Story: If you can get over one major portion of the story (everyone that knows the spoilers knows what I’m talking about) you will enjoy this game. I guarantee you. Dont go in expecting the same game as before because it is tonally different. The story is darker than the first game. It tells the tale of Ellie and another character who I won’t mention in their quest for revenge, much in the vain of something like red dead redemption 1. The story takes many unexpected twists and turns and leaves you thinking about the game long after it’s over. This is a game of perspective. If you are someone who can see two sides to an argument and see where both are coming from, you will love the story.
6475) I’m a bit surprised by why this game has been the focus of such hate/trolling. The leaks before release were unfortunate and as a company with a commercial interest it’s almost impossible to handle situations like that right, but the bottom line is this game sets new standards in almost every aspect.,The gameplay loop should be familiar to people acquainted with part 1, not too much new there but improvements across.,What really sets this game apart for me is the sheer intensity, gut-wrenching moment after heart-breaking development after brutal encounter, every situation being executed to perfection.,Naughty Dog managed to deliver an incredibly complex work of art, that still manages to shine in simplicity. Thank you!
6476) I don’t think I’ve ever had a game that’s made me cry so much. Naughty Dog did it’s job. Very well written!
6477) This game caused a lot of emotions. I want to continue this story. excellent plot, incredible direction and gameplay. this is the best game i have played.
6478) It's pretty simple--the game is excessively well thought out and is excellent. People who are bombing it either have a bigoted side, or cannot handle having to digest something that isn't what they wanted. Neil crafts a story that forces you to look at this world through several perspectives, and many would rather have a heroic gore fest. This game is very timely in the face of that.
6479) This game has marked me with emotions that I have never fell in any other game in my entire life, it's a master piece for me!
6480) This game broke my emotions from beginning to end. And realising that there’s no room for right and wrong in a world like this. Everyone has their own story and they’re not even heroes in them.
6481) So i see.The majority of the reviews are from june 19.The game released on june 19.Basically everyone completed 20 hours+ of gameplay,on day one.Don't even read those **** reviews made just to put crap on the game.Let's see,basically you are rating the game 0-1 because joel dies and you can't accept it,you don't like abby and the game has lgbt stuff in it.Some even say "graphics are good,mechanics too,but 1 for me because i don't like the story.How can someone be so immature?I'm rating it 10 firstly because it's an awesome game in all its parts,second because i want to get the score higher.This game doesn't deserve all the zeroes just because you don't have common sense and rate it 0 or 1 even if you know the graphics are spectacular and mechanics too,it deserves a six only for that,find another game with the same things today.Think before reviewing next time and play the game first ;)..
6482) I loved it, I am really hoping for a part 3. The game does not deserve all of this hate. I would change the time that we got to play as Abby tho, no need of 7 hours playing with her
6483) This game is perfect, it has impeccable graphics and history, as well as a lot of depth in the characters.
6484) The Last of Us 2 is a work of art. I really don't get the hate for this one. It's masterful in its storytelling and it's my favorite part about it. The way they decide to tell this story, it really gets your emotions going. You feel some way about certain things and then later you feel another way. Everything the first game sets up comes to a heart shattering reality in this powerful sequel
6485) It's a good game, with a good world to explore, a great soundtrack and absurd graphics for a PS4.,A good and well-told story, with well-developed characters and a different point of view, is not a game of hero or villain, they are just survivors. I never felt things like I did playing the last of us part 2, fear, anger, guilt, sadness. One of the best games on ps4.
6486) Don't believe the hate. I hate woke culture, and I still think this might be my favorite single player game of all time. Don't play if you haven't finished part 1.
6487) the game that has given me the most emotions. The gameplay is incredible, the beautiful graphics. The story arc is out of the ordinary in video games and it's amazing. shocking
6488) This game draws many similar parallels towards the first game but expands upon it all. First off I am seeing a lot of comments saying this gameplay is stale in outdated but I heavily disagree. I think people have a lot of selection bias when remembering the first one. This combat has so many new small features making it feel fresh, there are also no annoying ladders and the level design is so heavily improved upon. Level design is a huge part of the gameplay for this series and it is so fine-tuned it's near-perfect here, Naughty Dog crafts such a detailed world giving glimpses of the past survivor's lives just by traversing it. The layouts of each level play out is so much better than the original as the player has so many unique ways to approach each encounter. Next is the story. This story just like the original purposely makes you feel uncomfortable at some points but it dials it to the extreme this time. I saw a review that complained "By the end of the game I was so numb to violence nothing shocked me anymore" Naughtydog does this on purpose as they really want players to be immersed and feel how these characters emotionally feel. This game's narrative is heavily reliant on the realism and characters making personal yet realistic choices and IMO you lose a huge part of the story if you don't put yourself in their shoes by playing the game. Almost every negative review here is within the first day this game came out. My total gameplay time was 25.5 hours. 99% of these negative reviews are not even possible. Most of this hate is coming from people who don't have the full context of the story. There is a reason this game is much longer than the original and an hour worth of cutscenes alone won't tell the full story. I highly recommend playing the game yourself and not looking at the game through spoilers! I found it a great experience and I hope others will enjoy it as much as I did.
6489) Either you understand and love it or you don't and hate it. Even if you disagree with the story's direction it's still one of the most beautiful games ever made with A.I. that is smarter than any I've ever seen, the music is great, and gameplay is tense with tons of action. The gameplay should be what you judge it on else the story should come 2nd and the gameplay is amazing.
6490) Brilliant game. Truly a masterpiece. Some people are disappointed because of Joel' character. It was all about Ellie and Abby and the way they related both of their stories. Magnificent. Most of the things were like uncharted 4. The plot looked a lot same. The side stories, the jounral
6491) this game is perfect in every way. You really can't judge the story unless you've played it. It really snuck on me and made me feel emotions I hadn't known existed. You might think I'm overexaggerating, but that is truly how I felt. Its almost as if we all have our own subjective experiences that lead us to have different, subjective, opinions of this game... huh what an interesting thought
6492) Just finished the game and got the message.,The game teach us the cicle of hate and how to break it.,Graphics is the best of this gen and the gameplay flows perfectly.
6493) The Last of Us 2 had a big challenge ahead of them to follow in the footsteps of the first game, a game revered for its storytelling, graphics, gameplay, and characters. And it did not disappoint, unless you came into this game with a closed mind, expecting the story you wished they wrote. But they did not write the game you think you wanted, there are no "only happens in a movie" moments. There is no breaking of realism. You get pure, deep and realistic people for characters, in a raw, intense story. The first game is told from the perspective of Joel and Ellie, the good guys. But the second game plays on that, Joel, you seemingly has only ever had the interests of Ellie's and those closest to him in mind. The story unravels that, showing the lies, deceit, manipulation, and the senseless murder of the man who may have been able to end the infection once and for all. We get emotional cutscenes and flashbacks, to the things that mattered most to Ellie, why she idolized Joel, and grew up wanting to be like him, to the scenes of her discovering his lies about what happened in the hospital. Her resentment for him, for the person she had once held so dear. Ellie's journey in this game is how she found a way to exorcise the demon that way Joel, as good as his intentions may have seemed while playing him in the first game. They were selfish and manipulative to others.,,Ellie's story sees her struggle with that to the very last moments of the game.,,Abby's arch, the one you're supposed to hate for brutally killing off the beloved main character of the first game. Is a roller coaster. A good one. Her story has deep roots, amazing character development for her, and if you catch the details of the game, it really makes you empathize with her, she's not a bad person at all, She's just someone that wants to bring her father's killer to justice. She does so, without leaving a trail of other dead bodies behind, a stark difference to Ellie's approach, which as quoted by Ellie herself, were acts that she thought Joel would have done, that is why she needs to.,,No, Abby is not the villain, but the light in the story. Her consistent humanity keeps surfacing over and over again. When she hears a story that one of her best friends his missing after supposedly killing another WLF member. She doesn't just take that and let it go, but she cares deeply to seek out the truth and make sure her friend is okay. She risks losing the safety of being a WLF for a few different characters, even risks her life, facing her greatest fear several times, and encountering the best boss baddie of the game. Through her arch, she sees the innocence of some children Seraphites, willing to help them after they save her life as she is nearing a gruesome death. Never faltering in her morals, a Seraphite and her eventually ends the story in a reminiscent way to how Ellie and Joel ended the story of the first game. Poetic.,,What makes the writing so great though, is that many of the senseless deaths just happen, as they would. Very true to what we would expect the realism to be. There are hardly heroic deaths in dying moments, though a couple, and none that are just unbelievable, all feel real. The game is written to stay true to entertain you through storytelling rather than the unattainable mind-blowing action moves you'd expect in the Die Hard series.,,All in all, this game built on the first game, and pushed a challenging story through, successfully. As long as you're willing and able to see the details in it and not just assume the revenge plot of childish behavior, but actually recognize the perspective. If you miss that, you will probably get caught up on hating Abby for killing Joel. However, if you really do yourself that favor, you're bound to end up seeing Abby as one of the most humane, likeable characters of the series. Both her and Ellie's stories, woven together as they are, have substance. Even more than the first game, and that is saying a lot.,,There is a reason professional critics have this game rated so highly. They genuinely played through the game, with an open mind, and were rewarded with an experience from what could possibly be considered the greatest game to date.
6494) Seeing everyone's opinions I began to reflect and change my perspective. I started to see the scenes again and they are absolutely right, from the first installment they give you to understand that in this game there are no heroes or villains and in this second part it makes it very clear to us, seeing the death of Joel I give myself by  Congratulate ND for that daring to kill the best character in all video games. That many annoyed but putting ourselves in the place we realize that it was too realistic!  What did we all expect?  A death with epic music?  Well ND made it clear that in this franchise things are not like that!  So I congratulate him for that dared daring that made us all suffer equally, the game must be seen with great maturity to understand it and it is true ... It leaves you a clear message that revenge is never good and they put us at the feet of the two protagonists and we realize that they lost everything because of it.  Engaging their loved ones and taking them to death when they did not deserve it. That is why ellie reflects and lets her live and that is where they show us the last scene of ellie and joel where she is also a part that broke me a lot because  Joel affirms that if God had given him another chance to do so, he would have done the same, it is a sign of the love he has for ellie. It is where ellie reflects and leaves us the clear message of why he forgave her. It makes me very sad how ellie saw joel die when they no longer had any contact .. As ellie in the first installment confesses that her only fear is to be alone and in this installment it happens (although I still believe that she was heading to jackson for a second chance) Because I return to the same thing, she leaves us the message that revenge will never  It is good and I have a lot of intrigue that it will be hers, hopefully soon they will show it to us .. And dina I loved it, hopefully we will continue seeing her
6495) Amazing game, I was speechless from the beginning to the end. Naughty Dog we love you and thank you for this masterpiece.
6496) This game in my opinion has excellent story telling. I love this game. This story takes place after the events of the first game, 5 years later. Ellie and Joel have settled in Jackson, and live in a thriving community Ellie has found herself a love interest, Dina. While on patrol, Ellie and Dina run into Jesse, a new,guy. After hearing Joel and Tommy have not came back, Ellie goes to find them. We also play through the villains perspective, and shes looking for someone. After playing as her, you get saved by Joel and Tommy. I'll just get to the point. Abby, the villain, kills Joel. Ellie witnesses this while pinned down. This causes severe trauma to her, and she becomes depressed. Its sad, deep, and emotional. Now I think this makes sense. Joel is Ellies beloved friend, or father figure. And it causes her to take action and revenge. She hunts down every last one of them. You see her blinded by hate, her actions have consequences. She feels those consequences. You then see Abby's point of view. You see she has been with all the people you killed, has been friends with them. And you killed them all. Even her dog. Abby meets two scars, helps them, and becomes more of a normal person, a person with feeling's. We also learn Joel killed her dad, the doctor in part 1. That's why she kills him, she's blinded by her hate two, like Ellie. By the time Abby's story finishes, shes a human with emotions. She finds out what you did, and seeks revenge. You go to find Ellie, and you succeed. Abby kills jesse, and takes Tommy hostage. You are forced to fight Ellie, and it becomes a boss fight. You dont want to, but at this point you understand Abby. You beat the crap out of them and then, Abby spares them. You then flash forward, Ellie and Dina live a good life now. They have a kid, (Dina was pregnant with Jesse's kid). They live happily. But Ellie has PTSD from Joel's death. She can't stop remembering it, and she needs to finish it. She hunts Abby down one last time, and Abby gets kidnapped by Rattlers, a new group. So Ellie gets through and finds her, in santa barbara, tied to a pole on a beach. Shes weak, and you let her go. But Ellie wants to fight. Abby doesnt. Ellie threatens her by threatening to kill Lev, the kid. They brawl, epic and awesome brawl. And at the end, Ellies about to drown her, but doesn't do it. She remembers Joel.  She CRIES, cries, and says to go. Letting Abby live with Lev. She comes back, Dina is gone. She left with the kid. Ellie tries to play the song Joel sang to her. But now missing two fingers. She cant play the guitar. She leaves it behind, and walks off.,Thats it, credits roll.  The game tells a story of hate, revenge, and the consequences of that hate, and revenge. Abby killed joel because he ruined humanity's chance, and killed her father. But in th end Abby has it worse. Ellie killed everyone, and Abby is mad. Its understandable, because you see the journey she has. The ending shows Ellie coming to forgive Joel, and she can't bring herself to kill Abby. The cycle of revenge would just continue, and nothing would be solved. She knows joel is gone,,hes not coming back. Her not being able to play the guitar, and joels song, is her moving on past Joel. The Ellie we know is gone, and that would've worsened if she killed Abby. It makes you feel everything the game has made you do. And the question is, what would you do? What is the point when you know it went bring him back? Thats the brilliance of it. That's why I love The Last of Us Part 2.
6497) Amazing game, don’t listen to people on the internet complain about it and judge for yourself.
6498) The best of this generation... only Naughty Dog could do something like this
6499) Amazing sequel! This is just what i needed. The game follows in the footsteps of the original, and keeps suprising me with excellent game design. I liked the story, and it was good because it isn’t predictable; like every other story based single player games. This game seems to split the fanbase, but i give it a solid 10/10.
6500) Amazing gameplay, awesome story. I understand where everyone’s frustration comes from but I loved the game. Playing as Abby in the second half made me realize that she wasn’t the enemy, she’s a good person who did a bad thing that could easily be justified. Ellie did much worse throughout the first half of the game. Naughty dog could have easily given another journey for Joel and Ellie that further built their relationship but I’m glad they didn’t.
6501) One of the best games I've ever played. As a lifetime gamer in my mid-30's, I can say that I have never been more emotionally affected by a game. Fantastic.
6502) Finally finished my first playthrough, and honestly, all of the negative takes on this game are not deserved.,,It's not like people didn't see this onslaught coming from the moment a trailer revealed Ellie to yes, be definitely into girls, and yes, it's going to serve as something as part of the story. The reveal of the leaks only helped amplify people to have a "reason" to be mad and want to cancel their preorders, and even be ready to drop negative scores on release date, which they definitely did.,,A number of negative reviews that include "woke" and "SJW" doesn't really surprise me, and they're definitely coming from incels who didn't even actually play the game.,,The reviews citing "story" issues: I'm convinced most of these are from players who didn't finish the game. You can tell by the fact that the "most helpful" reviews of the game right now are coming from day-one reviews, and there's quite simply no way anyone was beating this game in just a few hours. But the few who did actually play through the game, and still want to cite their contempt for the story, I've gotta say they're pretty low IQ and simple folks. The story is much more dynamic than the original and unconventional. This is something that should be appreciated in gaming, especially in sequels to a successful new IP. But nope, they didn't get the game "they wanted". They didn't get another story of duo-team Joel/Ellie going and kicking some ass and trying to survive, so **** the director and the devs because they were too dull to get it, apparently. This is the problem with entitled fanboys. But let's be honest, no matter what the story entailed, they wouldn't have liked it, because the original game is popular, got loads of awards, and the sequel was highly anticipated. So like so many sequels to equally successful games since: it was never going to live up to their expectations. But the leaks didn't help. It's very aggravating to see tens of thousands of talentless losers try to sabotage the success of years of hard work by the dev team for quite literally no actual good reason.,,Unfortunately for these crybabies, the game is actually legitimately good. If you enjoyed the game mechanics of the first game, you'll feel right at home with the sequel. A few new weapons, a few new stealth mechanics, a new means of upgrading abilities and weapons. It's familiar, but fresh.,,The graphics got a bump, and it makes the overall feeling of the world around you and the way you traverse, explore, and combat enemies much more breathtaking. It's a very pleasant experience and no doubt the devs put a lot of work into attention to detail.,,When there is music playing, it's soothing and meshes well with the moment, which is what it's all about. I'm a fan of minimalism with music in gaming when it makes sense. The Last of Us has always been one of those games where that makes sense. But when it happens, it needs to matter. Thankfully with TLOU2, as was with the first, this is the case.,,The story.,,This is arguably the biggest point of contention with players right now. And I say arguably very loosely, because you kind of see the writing on the wall with how a lot of these bad actors just can't separate their assertion that the story is bad, with their need to openly display their contempt for the fact that Ellie's sexuality was made apparent, and even part of the story. Now, of course, no one will have anything to say about the sex scene with Abby, and her romantic history with one of the other supporting characters.,,The story is very good, it's thought-provoking, and it challenges your perception of what storytelling can be. The idea that the story is "predictable", as I've seen other player reviews state, is ridiculous. The only way it was predictable is if you went out of your way to watch the story leaks, and even then, there's no way you're going to be able to predict the outcome of anything in this game with such minimal amounts of information leaked by a disgruntled former employee.,,I honestly don't understand why gamers set expectations for sequels to games they like. For people who complain about predictability and bad storytelling, it's weird how they want a story to be exactly the way they envision it being - which sounds more predictable than this game ever ended up being.,,Players shouldn't be driven off by the bad reviews from people who definitely didn't play the game, and already had their minds made up after they saw the leaked footage. Experience the full extent of the content yourself. This team clearly put a lot of effort into providing something fresh, and if you liked the first game, they deserve to have their hard work be given an honest chance.,,Now I'm onto starting my second playthrough so I can complete my plat trophy. 10/10.
6503) The bravest story I have ever seen in a game. Absolutely unexpected. Thank god I haven't seen any spoilers. One of the best game of this generation, no question. Thank you again Naughty Dog
6504) Play the game before hating on it, The Gameplay and graphics are revolutionary and while the story takes some bold risky decisions at the end of the day the game still is one of the greatest of this generation. Period. Its supposed to be a sad and depressing world keep that in mind.
6505) Polished gameplay and insane amount of details are good, but most important thing in this game is the story. It was an emotional roller coaster, which betrays the expectation of players in a hard, a cruel, but also an impressing way.
6506) I don’t know why everyone is giving it such bad scores. It’s an amazing game. Just because you don’t enjoy the story doesn’t mean it justifies the whole game being bad. The amount of detail and care that went into the game shows so much in the gameplay and the environments. Other sequels only wish they could be this good.
6507) It’s really sad that I have to give a 10 when I wanted to give an 8.9 to this game bc a bunch of people want a Hollywood-like game where nothing matters, there’s only blood and vengeance and a **** ton of violence. Dude if you want that, go play uncharted or saints row or GTA. This game made me hate a character then love it by the end. Spherical characters like Abby are rare in any type of entertainment form (movies, books, games, etc). The only thing that would make me rate this game an 8.9 and not a 10 is how they made Abby look like a villain, following a mutation where she looks like a good guy, then it ends by the game spitting on your childish face that there are no villains or heroes, there are just people trying to survive. Just like Joel. However, when they try to do the same thing with Ellie, she begins the game like a Hero (opposite To Abby) then she turns into a genocidal maniac (for her own reasons, I guess), making her look like a person living in an apocalypse.But the game finishes with her looking like a villain. It’s incoherent as to what happened to Abby. Don’t like it. It’s an irrational conclusion. The very very final scene should’ve been better. All in all, Joel’s death meant that he was trying to be better so he could have his redemption towards Ellie (remember their talk on the day previous to his death — also, that justifies why he was dumb to fall into a trap TLOU 1 Joel wouldn’t. He was trying to be kinder to have his redemption with Ellie). Conclusion: people crying over “Joel deserved better” or “I wanted to kill Abby” didn’t get the point of the game that there are no villains nor heroes and Joel was an **** to other people, so what he really deserved was an according death. I’m happy and satisfied with it. If you didn’t get it, you’re just being too emotional or straight up childish. Grow the **** up you ****
6508) It's a magnificent game with an exciting piece of gameple, and memorable characters. I don't understand why the game has so low ratings, I think the rating should be at least 8.5, or even 9.5.
6509) I absolutely loved the game.,Even though the story is not as deep as the first game, this sequel prevails with a dark story worthy of a post-apocalyptic world. In this game we focus more on the world that the human has created after more than 20 years of outbreak day (as it is called in the game), the way in which the different clans and groups of people that have been created try to survive and thrive, and the general physical state of the world (which turns out to be beautiful). The graphics are impressive and the gameplay is very fluid and full of action.,Now the characters. The fact that you can see the two parts of the same story from different perspectives makes you understand a lot about the psychology of the characters and the people in general. Yes, Joel is brutally murdered. But in the end, everything is a consequence of the actions he did in the past (referring to the end of Last Of Us). It teaches us that in that world nobody will have a slight chance of a fair trial. It's the survival of the fittest at its finest. Both Ellie and Abby's actions are understandable, especially when you get into a game that creates a post-apocalyptic world on par with the TV series The Walking Dead.,Revenge takes little if not almost no importance in the end because both characters realize that there are other things to fight for in a world where anarchy reigns. Throughout the game you encounter infected (which after a long time in this imaginary world tend not to be as important as they were before), people with axes and hammers, clans as organized as the military itself, and men, women and children trying to survive. At this point you realize that when they told that you would get uncomfortable playing the game they were right. As Bill said beautifully in the first game: “You know, as bad as those things are, at least they’re predictable. it’s the normal people that scare me.”,Excellent game, I will play it again.
6510) This game is nothing but amazing. The graphics, world building, physics engine and level of detail is incredible. And the story arcs for the characters, the flashbacks, the narrative twists it takes... and the incredible sense of shock and loss every time a character you have come to care for dies... man, what an emotional roller-coaster and a great take on the futility of revenge. I only wish I could play it again with no prior knowledge.
6511) This video game is a real gem, whoever actually played it will think the same. GOTY!
6512) So far I am only a few hours in and have not been disappointed. 1,000% heart broken by what Abby did. Had to take a break and accept what happened. I finished part 1 four times and I'm really enjoying the depth Naughty Dog has added to the story. I read a good amount of the reviews and you can tell not every person posting touched the game. I believe this game is with the times and is a good representation of human connections today.
6513) It is an incredible game, why? First, the game mechanics are fascinating, like their combat, which is the best I've seen in a long time, thanks to its dodge system and multiple death scenes. Also, the intelligence of the enemies is so well polished that when you kill one, your allies realize that it disappears and they shout your name, just like your allies, who help you with battles. Second, its graphics are the best I've seen on PS4, they are very realistic, the lights are very well done and the flora is also very well done, the infested are scary, etc. Third, the sound section is very well done, you hear the crystals of a glass if you step on them after breaking one, when hitting an enemy you hear as if the blow was real, in short, it makes you feel as if you were in the game. To finish, as many negative critics say, his story is bad, which is not, because his characters are well developed, everything fits, except the end, which is a meh.,In short, IT IS A GREAT SEQUEL AND GAME.
6514) Fantastic incredible experience awe inspiring story gameplay is spot on and the characters are as good as any movie I have seen if you haven't played it yet do so now masterpiece
6515) Name another game that makes you experience raw character development from both sides of the story. Name another game that doesn't want to leave you with the ending you wanted/predicted but an ending that shows the emotional growth of its characters summed up in one final fight. The bad reviews are literally 4chumps and xbox fanbois who haven't played the game.
6516) Please don't listen to the idiots on here the game is amazing. Absolutely stunning aswell.
6517) Incredible game. Top notch story telling, gameplay and graphics.  I was upset at certain events that occurred, but it certainly made for an emotionally engaging story.
6518) The game is so amazing, and so many people is talking **** about this game but they're not even playing the full game so I Completely recommend it
6519) This game deserves higher than “4”,The choices in the story can be judged but all the effort that is spent for this gamed shouldn’t be rated that low.,When the game finishes , it should give us. A screen on which we can rate game and comment.dozens of youtube watchers or bandwagons underrated that game.
6520) This game is awsome i enjoyed every part of it naughty dog could have gone the easy way and give us the predictable story but they choose the hard way and it's fantastic
6521) Don’t listen to the hate, the story is something everyone should experience for themselves.
6522) This game is effing great. All the people **** about it are **** morons.,,SPOILER,,They're all saying "oH mY gOd, yOu kiLlEd JoeL!? And make us play as the villain? Thats so dumb! 0/10",,Game is **** awesome I hated the antagonist in the beginning but you realize these are all just people and Joel did a selfish thing, justified in my opinion but still selfish; and he deserved to pay for it. And then it illustrates the things a revenge plot can do to you and the people you love. If you really feel nothing from this game but anger and a need to forget it, then by all means stick to your dipass call of duty/apex legends/fornite battle royale **** boy games and your fast & furious franchises. Obviously a narrative of this caliber is too much for you to grasp, especially if you cant put aside your dumbass feelings over a **** video game character to dig deeper into the message and theme of the game. (Revenge is a stairway to nowhere).,,Also people claiming SJW nonsense in this game is full of **** theres absolutely no political agenda about this game, they're just misogynistic neckbeards who don't like having to play as a woman over their man crush Joel. **** outta here. 10/10
6523) great game, great storyline. a complete thought. I would give more choice to the player. but this is no longer an adventure in the United States as the first part, this is revenge, for what? to show that because of revenge, you can lose more than gain. thanks for the game, thanks for the story. rest in peace, Joel!
6524) Naughty Dog has done it again; What an absolute masterpiece.,,I suggest playing on the hardest difficulty as it adds a lot of tension, and promotes use of your full arsenal during combat.
6525) Best game I've ever played congrats to naughty dog on creating this masterpiece
6526) Didn't think they'd top the first game, but they did. A beautiful swan song for the PS4, just like the first one was for the PS3. When the dust settles, 10 years from now, the consensus will be that this game is a masterpiece, which it is. Groundbreaking often doesn't look like groundbreaking when it happens, but this is it.
6527) Great graphics, great gameplay and the story may not be to everyone’s likes but it’s still great and the game is filled with tense moments and drama throughout.
6528) Genuinely best game I have ever played. Can’t stop thinking about it. Currently playing through for the second time. Really hope we get part III
6529) by far one of the best games i've ever played. it's not the game that we wanted but that doesn't mean is a bad game
6530) Remarkable landmark on Video Games History.,Great achievement on technic and a complex story with tons of subtexts and avoiding judgments.,An excellent portrait of humanity on its best and worse.,Masterpiece, that will remembered for the rest of Video Games History.,NOT FOR CHILDREN, in age or spirit.
6531) The last of us part 2 surpassed all my expectations of it. I have never played a game that made me feel such raw emotions like this. The first game was amazing and the second was even more so.
6532) First of all, the devs at Naughty Dog need commending for the sheer quality of The Last of Us Part II, never have I seen such a graphical masterpiece coming from my PS4! This game brings smiles, tears, fear, shock and disbelief. It is a rollercoaster of emotion that is certainly hammered down in it’s final hours. It is unrelenting in regards to the revenge and hate aspect it’s quite clearly portraying, this game is certainly not for the faint hearted. The story, albeit a little skewed, is fantastic for the most part and the new character Abby, as much as people don’t seem to like her... I enjoyed her arc. Abby very much symbolises what Ellie has gone through and ultimately, both Abby and Ellie are as good and as bad as each other. The downside to this game would be the length of which you play as Abby, but other than that the game is golden. The negative reviews are certainly from people who haven’t taken the time to play the game through to it’s end and let the story sink in, this game is certainly a contender for GOTY if not GOTG! Neil Druckmann and Co have done a fantastic job with this title and the voice acting is 100% perfect! My only hope is that a Part III follows to wrap up the story once and for all! The Last of Us Part II as well as it’s predecessor are fine examples of deep, emotionally envoking story telling and I hope this trend continues going forward! Well done again Naughty Dog! You have earned this!
6533) An incredible, uncomfortable experience, start through finish. I'll be playing this forever.
6534) Do not let the user score of this game dissuade you. The Last of Us part 2 is a masterpiece. The losers giving it negative reviews are a bunch a crybaby douche bags that didn't get exactly what they wanted, so they felt the need to try and tarnish the games reputation. Do yourself a favor, play the damn game.
6535) Please don't hate this game just because the others are saying!!!,This game has the best graphics and gameplay ever created and the story is very dark YET SATISFYING!!,I love playing both Ellie and Abby... They both are the best!,The game is a true masterpiece...,Hoping this to become game of the year! It deserves it. Don't judge a game because everyone is saying that it's bad! When you play it, you realise that it's worth your time and money,Also the game gets more better and better after time... Please play this and don't judge this game!!!
6536) Just finished my first playthrough, took me around 28 hours and I loved it. I managed to avoid spoilers and I enjoyed the story, the gameplay was similar enough to the first game that I found it easy to get back into but there was enough new weapons and gameplay mechanics that it still felt like an upgrade from the first. Would recommend !
6537) Thrilling experience gameplay wise.. Which is what mostly matters in the end.
6538) As I'm Japanese and my English is not good, I'm going to use a translation tool to write my impressions of this video game.,In addition, I'm not going to give any spoilers.,,First of all, the Japanese version is very sad that many missing expressions and other things have been fixed.However, I still felt that The Last of Us Part 2 is one of the best video games of the PS4 generation, up there with RDR2 and GOW.,,-The gameplay is stressed out in every detail and ingenuity.,-Very elaborate graphics and character movement.,-Realistic emotions of the characters.,-A very brutal but intense story that you can't miss a moment.,,All of these things combine on a very high level to form this top notch video game.,,So it's a shame that this game is getting unfair reviews. If you all have a real love for video games, play it for yourself and enjoy Ellie's I want you to relive the story.,,Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)
6539) A game causing emotions is already a great creation, and a good game causing a waterfall of emotions is an epoch-making creation
6540) gameplay is satisfying. In my opinion as long as everything is so sharp story doesn’t matter. I reckon those  who care so much about story there is Netflix.
6541) perfect game play but normal story for part 2 and 6 years working on,thanks.
6542) I have never experienced so many emotions in my life, both sad ones and happy ones. Also, I don't think I've cried so much in my life.,The writing, the camera work, the characters, the scenarios, the art, EVERYTHING is an absolute 10/10. It took 7 years but it delivered. You can see why people would be kinda mad at it but, I'm my honest opinion, in order to hate this game, (more exactly, the story) you either thought this would be a sea of roses and didn't have your mind truly open to new experiences or simply refused yourself to embrace the great writing, going with the flow of the hate.,This is everything you can wait from a video-game and from a Naughty Dog video-game. Can't wait for the online.,A true masterpiece. June 19ft 2020 will forever be remembered as the best day of my life.,edit: the only thing i didn't enjoy was the region locked editions. Fix that, Naughty Dog, please.
6543) game of the year!! one of the best that i played in my life, best in the year ! at least for now, just buy man, you will like and cry a lot
6544) They could have continued the journey in a predictable way. But they took bold turns and produced a masterpiece which will make you mourn, leave you depressed for days or weeks and will have a permanent impact. ❤️
6545) Fantastic game. Don’t believe all the hate from the people who haven’t even completed it and just going on the leaks without any context.,This is one of the best games ever created buy it and support it since this is the type of single play games in industry needs
6546) Gráficos: 10/10,Trilha sonora: 9/10,Gameplay: 9/10,Combate: 8/10,Personagens: 8/10,Historia: 8/10,ok.
6547) It was interesting to see multiple perspectives. I was happy to see more representation of marginalized groups in a very tasteful way. You really felt for all the characters.
6548) This game is a masterpiece, the level of immersive and filmic cinematography is unprecedented in video games. The only games that even compare in this regard are those that are also made by the same developers of this game. The gameplay and mechanics are so polished and fun to use and never feels repetitive. I understand all of the controversy regarding the story but feel that it obviously a matter of opinion and not writing because It not just me who think the game is a masterpiece almost every major game critic think the same and have reviews that support this. Don’t be fooled by those who are saying this game sucks try it for yourself.
6549) After playing Part 1 18 or 19 Times it was a great Pleasure to play Part 2. And it's so fantastic: great Character, great Role Playing, great Story, great Music. For me it's one of the greatest Game, that ever released. I'm sure that the most of that negative "Criticism" never ever played that game. Fck off, you Crap.
6550) This is my favorite game ever put on a PlayStation console. Don't let the controversy distract you, give this one a try.
6551) Ok, i really liked it, its a great game visual, and as the gameplay goes, astonashing, its combat ai vastly improved over the next game, now enemies actually are a challenge, storywise i will give it a 8/10,it has its moments, and its preety interesting to see bothsides of a problem, and at the end ellie finally fogaved joel, that was it the cycle of revenge was broken at last, by not killibg abby she let a chapter of her life end
6552) A game that forces you to view the world from different perspectives. Our hero's, Joel and Ellie, are other peoples villains. The brutality of the story, murdering the main cast left and right, makes the world come more alive. People die, regardless if you like them or not. A worthy follow up and a genuine masterpiece if tou ask me. I truly don't get the hate this game gets.
6553) The last of us 2 is a technical masterpiece! From animation to lightning to audio, the game is just beautiful to watch and listen to. It also has a very fun gameplay. If you like having options to work your way through a game and kill your enemies in creative ways, this is your game. So why are ppl giving it 0/10? Well there are 2 kind of groups doing that. First the ones following a trend and just hating for reasons even they don't understand and second the group hating the plot of the game. I personally loved this game very much.
6554) I just finished this game. I stayed away from all kinds of spoilers, all i knew going in to this game was what happens in the first game. This has been one of the best games i've ever played in my life !! i don't know why you people hate it !. there's not many bold unique masterfully crafted games like this out there. it's just as good as the first game and a worthy sequel. The game straps you down for a world full of pain with short extremely rewarding breath of peace and relief,  you will desperately push through each corner to get to that point, this in my opinion is almost exactly what a world like this would have in store for each and every one of us, the geniuses at Naughtydog truly created a masterpiece. i encourage all of you to sit down and try to see yourself in the shoes of the two incredible  playable characters. Seriously this game is amazing and it doesn't deserve this hate !. A story is not always about how it starts or how it ends, it's also about how it unfolds.
6555) An incredible and daring sequel that delivers on all fronts. A truly perfect follow up to the first game.
6556) It's not as bad as people are making it. Sure story-wise they made some dumb decisions, and the marketing campaign for this game was a complete joke and mislead tons of fans, but the overall experience with this game was pretty solid. Funny enough the emotions you feel while playing this game are completely intended, and the way the story is structured is also completely intentional. This is a game that's supposed to make you feel empty after playing. The visuals in this game are extremely realistic, from the facial expressions to the beautiful lighting. This game is a spectacle to behold. The gameplay is definitely better than its predecessor, and it's always a blast to engage different enemies through many different methods, from up close and personal to sneaking your way through the various situations. The voice acting is very superb, with everybody delivering great performances. Even though the story was very misleading via promotional material, I still really liked the narrative of the game. The game really plays with your emotions and really embraces the idea of points of view. The way it was executed was phenomenal. It makes actions you enjoyed making earlier in the game take a full 180. Overall, a great experience and a must play for all fans.
6557) I beat it, yes. I can finally say THAT I LOVE THIS GAME, it’s one of my favorite games EVER (on the first part’s level), but I can explain its pros and cons,Pros: ALL, but . . .,Cons: The first 4 hours playing Abby like a character, I was HATING her, but after all long way, that I went through, I LOVED her as character.,I can understand, that some people doesn’t like the ending, but I LOVED It, Ellie just made a decision, which defined her as a person, and she’s alone, but she did right thing, she DID NOT kill Abby, but wanted all long way in the Game, she didn’t kill her because she is ABOVE It. Ellie understood, that she doesn’t hate Abby, now she hates only HERSELF, because she was stupid **** who rejected the dearest person in the world. And revenge for Joel it’s just a try to forgive yourself.,In the ending, Ellie repents before herself about everything she had done.,I LOVE THIS FRANCHISE, LOVE THIS GAME, I LOVE NEIL DRUCKMANN AND I LOVE NAUGHTY DOG!❤️,10/10
6558) This game is **** phenomenal. I fo think the first one is better but this one is still also a masterpiece. The story goes places you absolutely don't expect and the gameplay is the best I have seen since MGS V. It took me time to warm up to a certain new character, I hated her as many others have, but by the end I was totally on biard with tge story beinf told. 10/10
6559) Every aspect of this game was amazing.  I was scared, anxious, exhilarated, upset, sad, mad, disgusted, and completely enthralled.  I saw and felt both sides of tragedy, regret, uncontrollable rage and inconsolable sadness; it was phenomenal.  The complaints about it are puerile and myopic, with a disturbing amount of bigotry and excuses about needing some simplistic happy sappy fantasy to play out in a zombie infested post apocalyptic world.  "There are games that are just comfort food.  This is not one of those games." - Neil Druckmann
6560) An amazing cautionary tale about the poison of hatred and the consequences of vengeance, told with the phenomenal production quality that Naughty Dog delivers and routinely advances the gaming industry with. Get this game. Pace yourself. When you're lost in the darkness, look for the light.
6561) Masterpiece. So excited and innovative game. One of the best games ever created.
6562) Arte nunca foi para cabeças pequenas.,,english: Art was never for small heads.
6563) Amazing game. Unlike anything I have ever played, surpasses the original in every way.
6564) The best looking game of 2020 .,The action scenes are lit.And the gameplay is so freaking awesome.And I’m sure there’s no any other game that could give me such an emotions.
6565) Getting sick of all these haters who haven't even played or finished the game by themselves.
6566) Best forover, crafick is perfect, the forest is surreal. Please I will need the last of was 3.
6567) Great game, great new characters.... no need to spin around over Joel and Ellie. Need to move forward and the game did. Great story, waiting for the tv series and tlous3!
6568) I understand when people don’t genuinely like the game...but to review bomb a game based on **** personally beliefs or to simply be a troll is stupid as hell. The game is a masterpiece from the graphics all the way to the gameplay. TLOU 2 doesn’t try to hold your hand like in the first TLOU. It presents a dark and twisted reality which felt closer our real life reality then any other game that I played. Play it for what it is and not how you think it should have gone.
6569) Unlike a large number of user reviews, which were written within just a few hours of this 30-hour game being available, I've ACTUALLY PLAYED IT!  Both the gameplay AND STORY are compelling.  Some of the action sequences rank among the most thrilling for any game I've ever played -- my heart was pounding so hard I thought it would explode in some parts of the game.  The characters' motivations make sense in the world where they live.  If you take time to explore, you discover some quiet emotional beats that are heartfelt.  The character interactions feel real.  And of course the character models and world design are top notch, but that's to be expected from a Naughty Dog game.  I feel like the naysayers have prejudged their opinions based on the spoilers, which I suppose don't look great when you take them out of context.  When you put the story in the context of this 30-or-so hour game, it's directed so that it connects well. And for all those riled up about so-called SJW issues, I kept looking for that but if it's there, it's not in your face, and isn't what this game is about.  The characters feel real and what happens in the world feels natural and expected.
6570) If you didn't realise this, Joel was the bad guy in the first game!! shocking right? and this was a great game that perfectly shifts the paradigm of the first. It doesnt do any sjw stuff and isnt what psuedo intellectuals proclaim it to be with all their hot takes.
6571) Even after hearing all the negative press and even seeing spoilers, Joel’s death, playing as Abby, characters committing acts you would have previously never thought they were capable of, the empty feeling you are given at the end. It’s all in service of a larger and unforgiving story that doesn’t and shouldn’t care about how you feel or who you’ve personally spent time with. Especially in the world the Last Of Us occupies. Graphically unbelievable and impressive, you will blow a screaming and begging enemy’s skull open and see a flap of their scalp hit a window or television, see it slide down leaving a trail of blood behind it. the combat and the immersive AI, especially on higher difficulties, can make you feel like you don’t have any better chance making it out of the encounter than your targets. While it may not have been what some were expecting or wanted from a sequel, it deserves to stand alongside the first.
6572) I finished this last night, and I must say... What a ride. I really enjoyed it. There were some interesting plots and twists which really traumatised me, but I think this is exactly what Naughty Dog were expecting, and after playing through it all, I totally understand why they did what they did. I loved it, and really think that it's a truly epic game!
6573) A game about choices and the consequences of our acts.,I believe The Last of Us part 2 cleverly captures the harsh feelings of the first game and adds new meaning to those feelings - which can be both satisfying and devastating.,I loved the fact that we get to experience the same story in different ways this time. The gameplay and mecanics are familiar yet refreshing and the level of detail is exceptional. The new characters are well-crafted and feel real for the world of The Last of Us.,Finally, if you are not open to the new form of storytelling the game presents you with, you'll probably end up hating it - hence the review bombing. But if you let Naughty Dog tell you their story the way it was intended to, the game will take you to another level of narrative.
6574) As much as many people say that history sucks, this is a lie, because it is really necessary to have maturity to understand this game. The last of us part 2 is a really good game at all; in history, graphics, gameplay, mechanics and also realism. It's an almost perfect game and I recommend playing.
6575) This game is a masterpiece of storytelling and technical development.  It pushes the medium to new heights, making other games look antiquated by comparison.  Don't listen to all the negative reviews, they are mostly from from Xbox owners who are jealous they don't get exclusives of this quality.  If they hated it so much why did they buy it?  Makes no sense, you can't have your cake and eat it too.
6576) Absolute a Masterpiece. Mature story, shocking moments and an amazing atmosphere with an awesome gameplay. You can't lose it.
6577) It would be interesting if someone commented on my review of the game .,,I don't even know where to start, I was looking forward to this game even after part 1 and imagined the game for Ellie ... I finished the game in 39 hours on a high difficulty level. Graphics and faces of the characters in the painting,her diary, the effects at the highest level. The game is very beautiful (there are a lot of very beautiful and realistic different locations and there are many little things that not everyone notice you notes for example. This happens with unexpected moments (attachment to secondary characters, such as Dean. And game for Ellie) very cool done. And those mission in the Hospital and in a tall building - Just superbly made. Then I don't want to come off.This game deserves better than this horrible community. Today people do not have the necessary sensitivity and moral values, to appreciate this masterpiece. This game is a masterpiece of narrative storytelling and technical development. It pushes the medium to new heights, making other games look outdated.And many who criticize the game before you even played this game (I know he met) Missed the whole story and do not understand the different solutions that happen there, including different characters. Such people should not play such games, they are not for them, they're not going to understand, and even think that they have no sense of compassion and empathy. These games are too complex for them to understand. Many are simply not ready for such a game and such plot developments (e.g., Kill characters, and then to see them again on the other side), And the ending is not murder Abigail are all criticized, and violence in battle and it looked like the face Ellie and what she had experienced and been through what did and lost ). About Joyle everything is as I expected 7 years ago when I first passed the first part and saw the final. Death and JJ couldn't be different :(. This causes such criticism. They wanted her was the same as in the first part - but seriously, the majority and the minority just don't want this game. Because it's just not interesting , the same thing happened in the first part. (I know that many will disagree with me but the fact that most of them don't realize it's hard to explain words They don't even know what she is last of us part 2.I've thought about it - there are many such people,many incompetent critics.And yet there are people who have not played this game and from them, only criticism.The game ( Ellie ) didn't deserve it.I think those who criticize this game they are wrong and must be nerves Naughty Dog and Neil and Apologize and think about the game ...The game needed a breakthrough and something new in gameplay mechanics and story ,and locations and she did it, although very sad(Story) This is the best game I played. I would call this game a sad Masterpiece. The first half of the game is excellent I don't know how else to describe it simply super, but the second half changed everything,(this does not mean that the second half is bad (a Very well done narrative and the rescue of Abigail the two characters to which is also attached and sometimes it is very hard )there are also great moments of the characters to which attached and good deeds Abigail her as Ellie and DD and its the right choice,that she decided to betray your gang and former friends. The farm is very cool and beautiful location. The game gave a lot of sharp emotions, and it is on top.All the fighting and violence is very sad for me after beating the game and the ending and the last movie . And I'm sorry, Ellie... I don't know whether to recommend it to other players.This game,Last Mission Final roll, wiped everything, and after passing was very sad and felt only emptiness... I give the game 10 points a Game they deserved(If I gave her less it would not be fair to the game and the developers ) - I really liked to play for Ellie and follow her story of her partners Dina and They're a great couple I can tell you:) I hope Ellie with Dina will be in 3 parts and the story will continue ...These Games very small in the world and the Players and Fans need to listen to appreciate and trust the game Studios and game developers . I Think that many will agree with me.Special Thanks to Naughty Dog for what they have given us such a Masterpiece and everyone who reads this.
6578) This game was incredible. Every note it hit was perfect. The ending left me feeling empty... and that’s absolutely the point of the game. You can’t complain about the revenge story being jammed down your throat if you’re also angry with the ending. Because if you do it means you didn’t understand the revenge story being told. The importance of the female centric story is immense. Female representation is one of the most important things to me when it comes to emerging narratives, and the representation this game provides is monumental. The first two hours of this game left me bawling, and there was never a point where i felt comfortable putting down the controller. I constantly felt the need to see what happens next. The visuals are gorgeous, the sound design is incredible. But boy howdy, that story makes it.
6579) The best game to be made this generation... maybe of all time!! The storytelling was so powerful and moving, don't listen to what others say. Maybe you won't like it, but you should definitely try to experience this game yourself!!
6580) Simply The Best Game Ever Made, Everything About This Game Is Just Astonishing.
6581) Thank You Naughty Dog. Moving and tragic. I Loved and hated this game. It was a triumph. You should all be so proud.
6582) Amazing game, everything about it is incredible, be it the storyline or the gameplay, also extra points for the accessibility and inclusivity, all that makes this game utterly immersive and organic, almost like a movie we can interact with and be part of. I'm betting all I have on for it to win GOTY.
6583) Incredible, I don't have words to describe how much this game touched me, the graphics, the game-play, the story... just amazing.
6584) Utterly amazing. I was managed to stay away from the leaks and not read any reviews or posts about this prior to playing thankfully. Played the first one and the dlc for the 5th time through then started II up.,,The Last of Us II is unequivocally the best video game ever made. Many people won't agree with me, but personally, it hit every button it needed to, and made me question everything the characters did, in ways I wasn't expecting. To all the people hating on it: no one likes to be forced into doing something, regardless of what it is. But this game does it for a reason. People are **** People are also good. How the **** you distinguish those two opposite declarations is up to you to decide. A story like this was never going to end up like you thought it would, and thats the point. Its life.
6585) This is a brave and strong game. If because of some stupid people developers will stop creating this type of games it will be a great loss.
6586) Is and remains my absolute favorite game.,It has one of the best stories ever the only minus point is that you play Abby for so long even though she is the one who killed joel, would have preferred to play Tommy.,9/10 story,10/10 gamplay,10/10 atmosphere
6587) I liked the game. I liked the gameplay. The plot is ambiguous, I hope dlc will give answers to many questions.
6588) The game is AMAZING! Soundtrack, Dub, scenario, graphics, game play (...) everything is fantastic, especially the story! It's a MASTERPIECE! There are 2 possible reasons for those who are saying the story is terrible. 1- Prejudice/discrimination, the game talk about (and show) LGBT issues, but they don't try to push it on your face, they do it naturally. So, if you are okay with that you definitely should play this game asap! 2- Didn't get the main point, after Joel's death, everybody gets angry, we want to kill Abby so bad, but when the game makes you play with her seeing all she had been through, everything makes sense, you can't hate her. There's no heroes or villains in this game. The game is about revenge and what it could possibly do to us.
6589) Disregard the 0/10s. If someone personally hated every aspect of the story, every word that came out of the character's mouths; it still can't be a 0. People are willing to throw aside the game-play, graphics and animation because this is a sequel that gives all who played the first installment very intense emotions. I myself, was affected very strongly by the opening of the game. For a few moments, it wasn't a game anymore. Fixated on the screen, I played the game from start to finish in one sitting. But, even though I'm giving the game a strong 10/10, I did experience what those who gave it a 0 did. Watching Joel die was gut wrenching. We all cared about Joel, some of us cared more than we thought. This masterpiece doesn't get to be brought down because some of us can't handle our emotions. Would you prefer Ellie kill a barley alive Abby and leave a child to die? Would you prefer we turn Ellie into the monster she was hunting all along? Those who give 0/10s don't think about it because they can't see past our dead friend.
6590) Masterpiece.,Perfect, tense and gratifying gameplay.,Beautiful exploration.,The best story I ever watched.,The way it expands, improves and mimics the beats of the first game. At the same time, a completely different approach to storytelling.
6591) That’s the think with TLOF is it has loss and tragedy so we can expect that. Can’t help but to sympathize with the main characters, ultimately analyzing the character, judgement of actions and consequences for revenge. And they definitely left it open to a Part 3.
6592) many think this game is **** but have you really played it? They have greatly improved the fight, it is less boring than before, they put the silencer on the gun, the world is much wider, year improved the A.I. The fact that Ellie is more detached, stems from the fact that she is a teenager and has seen her only parental reference die. Flashbacks are justified by the fact that the game would have been boring if it had started from before, there would have been no form of action. in the early stages of the game, it's all snowed, the dictation that warm blood melts the snow, had never been seen, even the water is incredible, like this game. It doesn't touch the same topics as the previous chapter, but it's normal, everyone changes and evolves with their works, if you wanted a game like the first part, replay that one and don't say it's ****
6593) The game is the best.  Nothing to add, a lot of anger around the "propaganda" of LGBT people and the fem movement.  Personally, this did not hurt me at all, not a bit affected the plot.
6594) the game is good, but have some problems with storytelling, but in all i enjoyed playing it
6595) game beautiful story good the best graphics of the consoles. joel's death was kind of annoying but Abby won my heart will probably take the 2020 goty
6596) It breaks my heart to write this, but I really did not expect such a poor story after all these years of waiting. While there were a few genuinely good moments,Absolutely frustrating, gave the game several chances to allow me to understand from the perspective of the characters, but it was executed so poorly,If only psn had a refund option like steam. I haven't finished the game and I don't want to. This is a story driven game and the story is trash.
6597) Spectacular!  Every feature of the game is amazing.  hiding, shooting perfect I do not regret getting the game, definitely take it!
6598) It is the best game ever created. Naughty dogs you are the best studio. I am really lucky that I live in one period of time with you guys. Thanks for you work, really appreciate
6599) Game of the year. Explores the clash of interests and gives us everything we've ever wanted + more
6600) This game is profound and excellent. Maybe I'd give it a 9 normally because some of the travel feels grind-y, but screw the homophobe and bigot brigaders. No way in heck is this anything below an 8.
6601) I love the game, the story is amazing and the gameplay is great, also r/tlou2 can eat my ass
6602) Incredible game from start to finish. Every aspect of the game has been improved upon from the original to create what I believe is the best game ever made.
6603) This Is the Best gamer ever... Even with all the hate for some people. The game play is amazing, the Best one for this generarion
6604) Naughty Dog is a company that takes risks with their games, and this is no exception. The story is an emotional rollercoaster but is well written and very good. The gameplay, graphics, attention to detail, everything about this game is amazing.
6605) If I could score this game in a single word, i'd use the word "Astonishing",There is up to 8 hours that I finished the game's history and i'm still wordless about how incredible well made it is. This game is one of the few games that can make you feel such a strong empathy for the antagonist of the game, and even more: It makes you not know how to feel about what is going on the game. In all the Ellie vs. Abby fights the game had I can only remember wanting them to stop fighting.,Every consequence, every move one of them makes towards the other, every single small piece of history seems to take you to the thinking: "Is vengance really that important?". Especially in the part where Ellie abandons Dina and JJ to finish what she had started.,So **** amazing!,,This game tells de best history about vengance, forgiveness and consequence I have ever saw. It really brings out the message behind the phrase "Vengance is like Salt Water: The more you drink it, the more thirsty you'll get". And it goes further to make you see how deep the game goes: Even the secondary characters of it have theirs deepness and relevance to the game`s history.,And not only the history: This game outdones his first part in gameplay, deepness and especially in the exploration and world design factor too.,This game is simply amazing, and worth every dolar spent on it. Even though many people will desagree and dislike the subverting expectations part of the game and the twists the history takes, this game is a MUST PLAY, for good or for bad. You'll either hate it or have one of the BEST EXPERIENCES you can have on gaming. The only way to know how much you'll like this game is playing it, and I highly suggest you to do so
6606) Amazing game, it was an incredible experience from start to finish. If not for anything else, the impressive and beautiful set pieces will get you.,Scavenging, stealthing, exploring, gunfights.. all great ingredients that make up for some stunning gameplay.,The story is where the internet is ‘internetting’ and this is what I don’t get with people.,I had no problem with the story. I bought in, invested myself emotionally and took in everything with an open mind. I let the storytellers tell me the story they are trying to tell.,Don’t let the internet ruin what could be a great experience for you.
6607) This is a biased review, to pretend otherwise would be dishonest. It’s really nice seeing myself in a game for once.  But holy ****, the last few hours I was just begging through the screen for Ellie to give up her quest for revenge and go home with Dina. When the scene at the farm with Ellie and Dina and JJ happened I started crying, I thought that was gonna be it. Fade to black sitting on a tractor with her kid, the cycle of violence broken, and a happy ending. I feel absolutely gutted that she came back to find Dina had left. I’m hoping we’ll eventually find out that they get back together and raise their kid together. I want a happy ending, I want people to like me to have happy endings.,,Not to mention, Joel reminds me a lot of my dad. The way he awkwardly tried to connect with Ellie and especially the way he asked Ellie if Dina was her girlfriend. I played the prologue on Friday and gave my dad an early Father’s Day call...,,I really really liked this game I think it’s better than part 1. But I do feel as though my feelings were held hostage, queer women never get happy endings it seems. I feel like this game affects us differently as some of us probably desperately want to see some happy endings (which are in short supply for queer women.) Everyone’s able to sympathize, but I’ve never felt this kind of empathy for a video game character before. On another similar note, having their only trans character receive pain because of who he is intrinsically and not his choices, like every other character in this game kind of took me out of the experience. It didn't feel authentic or grounded in the narrative they built which revolves around the consequences of your actions. I'm not saying it was the worst choice they could have made but he didn't need to get dead named so often or have all of his trauma result from his being trans, there were dozens of smarter ways to write him into the story as elegantly as they wrote in Ellie being gay.,,probably an 8/10 realistically due to (pretty sizable) pacing issues and their treatment of the one trans character but I'm rating this based on how it's affected my life and me emotionally because I believe that is a worthwhile perspective. 10/10 game for ME, wow.
6608) Masterpiece. Don't mind the crybaby horde of channers.,Best game to date, until Knack 3 comes out.
6609) The best game i ever played,Story 9-10,Gameplay 9,Graphic 9,i don't understand the negative criticism
6610) Solid gameplay, good story,  amazing soundtrack.. For every action there is a reaction and ellie and abby was to blinded by theirthirst for vengence they failed to see how it was affecting all those they hold close till it was 2 late. Great game hope they expand onto it in the near future
6611) I had lots of fun with this game,I loved the gameplay so much, the animations were fresh and definitely new gen, the exploration and graphics are so well done that I explored every single area in the game, this game doesn't deserve a 0 / 10, the story was average and had plot holes but I can't ignore all the awesome moments this game gave me, the game has some really clever game design, the environment doesn't feel like it was made just for gameplay, it feels natural and really represents a post apocalyptic world. For me this game gets a 8 /10,it wasn't perfect and it's really different from the last game in terms of narrative, they wanted to change the story and it didn't succeed as they wanted but I didn't find the story bad,just average but all the other elements are a 10 /10, this game doesn't deserve the review bombing it gets, I understand if you wanted a different story but rating this 0/10 is just pathetic. I rate this 10 on metacritic to help with the review bombing
6612) One of the most amazing games ever made. Review bombing is dumb, and most people that rated this a 1 are making it a political thing or just didn’t play the game. The story is top notch. Ignore the haters
6613) Best Game,Best Story,Best Audio,Best visual, Best Characters, Best combat system, Best effect,
6614) I know that some things doesn't go the way we want in the game but it's relatable with real life too cause see life's not a fairy tale where everyone is happy there's no problem it doesn't happen like that so this game is also like that only it's just the gamers who are not accepting that fact.....
6615) Congratulations Naughty Dog for the courage to kill one of the most beloved characters in video games and for the audacity to make us play with your killer. TLoU2 is a journey of emotions. It's the best I can say about the game. I was happy, sad, depressed, angry, pissed off, I cried a lot and finally, amazed. Ellie's journey after Joel's killer is magnificent. The dialogues, the gameplay, all the characters involved, the soundtrack, just perfect. The ending is exciting, the scene in which Ellie sees Joel when she is about to kill Abby is heartbreaking and strong at the same time because we see that in her last conversation with Joel, there is still a resentment and it was this feeling that keep her going on her journey of revenge. It is interesting to see the consequences of their thirst for revenge, perceptible to the good viewer. it's an excellent game, a wonderful and courageous story and an epic ending. Congratulations and I sincerely hope you give us a Part 3.
6616) i dont know what is wrong with those people who give this great game a zero, seriously? for me this game is in all possible departments a 10, i can respect if someone doesnt see it that way but everything below a 6 is just embarrasing.
6617) A game worth buying.This user score is very underrated players just gave this game 0 because of Joel died.I think the story is not bad(nearly good but we didnt expect this story for this franchise) even Neil said this is the story of revenge and hate.
6618) An incredible game all around as it has the best graphics in gaming and a different type of story that has a lot of heart and guts to pull off, just amazing.
6619) Good game. A great continuation of 1 part. Play and enjoy! Thanks to the entire studio for developing the game!
6620) simply fantastic, a lot of people criticize him and call fans who liked him. It must be said, however, that the fans in the first place are you who despise him for Joel's death, because believing a poor and forced following only for the raw and violent death of the previous one is 101% fanboy. Another highly discussed point is the fact that Joel's killer will not be killed, and if he considers it also for this reason, he has not received and lived the story in full, in order to include such an ending like this. Recommended for those who will not criticize this work, for the reasons listed above.
6621) I'm surprised how many people state their opinion on lunch day without actually beating the game. Do yourself the favour and play the game it most absolutely is worth it and needs to be experienced on your own.
6622) Part 2 surpasses part 1 in every aspect, the way it has made me feel both during and after playing it is crazy. ND has raised the bar yet again but in a very different way this time. It was masterfully written. There is never a hero or villain in the world of the last of us so this was the most honest story ND could have told. It’s most likely what would’ve happened was it real life but if you are a fan of the first game, this story will hurt you emotionally (that is what it’s intended to do). This is why you’ll see a lot of hate for this game but each to their own. Don’t get me started on the incredible visuals and music. A masterpiece and a technical game changer.
6623) This is my first review ever and I doing it to show my support to this game. Not just because I'm a fan, because I just finish it, hearing the credit music right now feeling this is something else. A lot of feelings, from the start to the end and I think that deserves more that hate.
6624) This game is an absolute masterpiece! I always considered Part I as my all time favourite game but I now think my mind has changed, this game just completely blew me away.,The graphics are absolutely stunning, the story is exhilarating and so emotional. A game that must be experienced! An absolute thrill ride! Thank you Naughty Dog!
6625) Just completed this and managed to avoid the spoilers. Having done so I've just had a look online to see what all the fuss was abkut.,It boils down to angry incels feeling "cheated". By all means look up what their saying. But play it and make up your own mind.
6626) More than just a game, it made me cry, anxious, angry, happy, one of a kind, stop the hate and play it with your mind open. Wow just wow, amazing.
6627) I actually finished the game, unlike the majority of these reviews. It was the best game I have ever played. I think the story was perfect and masterfully written. Don't listen to the hate, play it yourself and have an open mind.
6628) Fantastic game! Masterpiece! Great storyline, I'm getting real goosebumps. This is the one of the best games in our history. Graphics, details, character souls... Oh, the best characters what I met! I love this game and infinitely grateful to developers!
6629) This game is spectacular. It’s the closest video games have been to stories on the same level as TV shows and movies. The gameplay is fun and provides constant stress. Graphics are the best I’ve seen.
6630) TLOU2 is a Hollywood slick, big budget and beautiful version of the work of Yoko Taro. It reminds me of Shadow Of The Colossus, Nier Automata and Spec Ops: The Line with a budget. Thus it may well be my favourite game of all time. An utterly astounding work that forces the player to confront their own assumptions and explores the dangers of othering individuals and groups.,,The way the game progresses and varies it's encounters brings to mind Resident Evil 4. Using it's core stealth and combat mechanics that are then twisted by enemy combinations, environmental factors, arena design and more. These core mechanics are absolutely rock solid and then used as a foundation for game design that keeps them constantly feeling fresh.,,The graphics are phenomenal as is the score and voice acting. The writing feels like it's actually been written as opposed to simply plotted or scripted, perhaps even dramaturged. However rather than simply emulate film or television it tells a story in a way that could only be done in an interactive medium, a radical and bold structure that encourages you to wallow in the grin satisfaction of necessary violence done well and then asks you to reconsider and recontextulaise what you have done.,,It's a masterpiece and the first game in years (in fact probably since Resident Evil 4!) that I binged and finished in a matter of days. Highly, highly recommended.
6631) Amazing game. Unusual feelings. Great storyline. I was cryed in the end. Thanks.❤
6632) The game is amazing. People are just angry about one of the events that occurs in the game so they don’t give it a chance
6633) Amazing, stunning, underrated. I have no idea why the society is didn’t like it, but I hope that’ll pass. I am sure that the Naughty Dog crew, who’ve been working day and night in this masterpiece, will be granted by the players, soon...
6634) Don’t be fooled by the low ratings from the bigots who obviously have not played this game. I agree that the marketing for this game was misleading and, quite frankly, stupid. The Last of Us Part II is not a heartless, cold game about “killing is bad” as the trailers would suggest, it’s so much more than that. And at the heart of it all, it’s incredibly human. I implore you to try this game yourself before following the bandwagon and hating on it. If you’re concerned about the leaks or the alleged bad writing, don’t be. Every story sounds incredibly stupid when you list plot points like in the leaks. Stories aren’t great because of what they’re about, but because of how they are told. Rest assured, TLOU2 is a carefully thought out ride of the highest caliber.
6635) Honestly, please don’t go and read every review and form an opinion before even playing it, just go into it with an open mind and experience this story.  Love it or hate it, it did something incredibly brave, and I think that Naughty Dog made something truly special.  Now, if you intend to play it, stop reading and go play it, because I’m going to start getting a little more into my opinions on it.  No spoilers, but with all the people giving it hate I just want to share some love for it.,Ok, so I’ll be honest...  I think this is the best game I’ve ever played.  A true masterpiece.  It made me feel sadness, grief, anger, joy, and made me laugh and cry more times than I can count.  It made me love and hate characters, and even the characters I hate I can still empathize with and understand.  This game isn’t for everyone, I get that, but art shouldn’t be for everyone, it shouldn’t only make the safe choice, but challenge you to look at things differently, and this does that.  I’ll admit, there were times I got angry at that fact, but I’m glad they did what they did, because it forced me to actually take a long hard look at many different things.  Because at the end of the day, this is a story about hate, and what it can do to you, it shouldn’t be easy.  There were many times I had to put my controller down and pace around my house, make a cup of tea and try to calm down, because goddamn did this game break me, which I’m honestly grateful for.  There’s something so cathartic about allowing yourself to be broken, letting yourself feel all the raw emotions and this game did that to me.  So thank you Naughty Dog, you made a truly beautiful game that will stick with my for the rest of my life.
6636) Simply a phenomenal game. Amazing story, which doesn’t become too far fetched and unrealistic, but is never dull. Fantastic ending, great acting, superb gameplay and breathtaking visuals. Almost perfect in every way.
6637) I personally really enjoyed this game,It filled me with so many emotions multiple times and left me shaking multiple times aswell. Say what you will about the story, the game in and of its self is fun and the graphic are probly the best that have ever been on console ever *especially in 4k* . There are times where it is extremely EXTREMELY brutal, but it's fun.,I truly believe that if you like survival games and really go into this game with an open mind you will enjoy it (especially if you happened to remain spoiler free),*Also just a reminder, a lot (if not all) of the ratings that are 0 and 1 were posted within the first 6 hours of the game being out and are just people that review bombed the game and had haven't actually played it first, or had just seen the leaks and made assumptions without playing it first.,(A lot of them also say the game has a polical agenda and if you like it you are just a dumb sjw *in other words it's people that are homophobic or against feminism*) so baisically the real user rating is probably around 7/10 or 7.5/10*
6638) Naughty Dog has once again raised the bar. When the dust settles this will be looked at as an achievement in gaming and one of the best of this generation.
6639) The most intense, emotional, and thought provoking video game I've ever played. A staggering work of genius.
6640) A great and hard story. The graphics are perfect, the gameplay is lovely, and the story is as nice as TLOU1. Those who bad rate this game Just for the LGTBI+ content are just st*pid people.
6641) This Game is a absolute Masterpiece, with Amazing Graphics, Gameplay, Animations, Cinematics, Story, Writing and Characters. The Greatest Game I've ever played and It is Defiantly my Game of the year.
6642) Great writing, sad to see everyone so upset that’s Joel died but filed for a great story, huge fan of the last of us, plan on replaying it a couple of times, the Abby parts were okay. Sad to see so many butt hurt people Bashing a great game because they can’t grow up.
6643) I’m only 8 hours in a will update this review once it’s complete. The game is absolutely amazing so far. The story and it’s pacing fits so well with the open gameplay this sequel gives you. I loved the first game and replay it to this day, and the sequel definitely lives up to the first last of us. Before writing this I was trying to come up with some drawbacks to my experience and I honestly couldn’t find anything more more substantial than your A.I. Parter getting in your way not unlike the first game except it happens a lot less. It’s a shame that all these sheep that you can tell haven’t played the game are review bombing the game so harshly. Hopefully as real players finish the game the score will go up. As stated in the beginning I ha ent finished the game but I will be updating this review. If the game ended right now it’s be enough for me to say go buy it. Definitely taking the top spot for my favorite game.
6644) With more than 1000 games I played in my life since 1987, this game is in my top 5. I have never seen anything like this. It's just unbelievably beautiful, the scenes are breathtaking, the character models and animations feel alive, the story is moving and dramatic. I finished it yesterday and still can't believe how perfect the game is. I feel sorry for those people who bombed the negative reviews (without playing it in most cases) for such an awesome game like this. There are no better words for the game: UNBELIEVABLE, MASTERPIECE.,,Dear Naughty Dog! Thank you so much for this extraordinary experience. Please continue your hard work, don't let the negative people influence your decisions. Do what you think is right in your future games.
6645) Amazing. Graphics, settings, mo-cap, sound and music, shocking, thought provoking, epic gameplay sequences, voice acting, challenging, beautiful heart felt moments. Absolutely loved it. At this point the user review score is irrelevant because a staggering number of children have review bombed this with a zero score because the story is a bit too grown up for them, without actually playing the game and experiencing the story. SMH.
6646) Perfect, I was waiting the II part long time ago. Nice controls, lovely characters.
6647) This game taught me, and it should have taught many that life is important to everyone, not only our lives are important, but also the lives of other people are important.  Whether they are good or bad, it does not matter, it also happens in the game that the side of Abby, that side of Ellie have the reverse side of the coin.  The first part of the game told us about communication, and the second about gray morality, about life's difficulties, but there is no Joel, but Ellie herself must go through these difficulties.  And that cruelty in the game shows all the anger and thirst for revenge of this game.  And what the Naughty Dog studio did deserves respect, even if there are cons in the game, but a titanic work is felt.  Let's thank the studio for such work.
6648) This game is perfect in every way. It leaves you speechless, angry, sad and amazed. There’s not an happy ending, it’s a story to reflect, it is supposed to make you feel something. It’s like that movie when you don’t like the end because it’s too human and it’s not happy. I felt so many emotions, me as part of the LGBTQ+ community felt embraced and represented, I wanted to stop playing when they were having that idyllic life because it was too wholesome. I felt angry when I was forced to continue pursuing Abby. But life is like this in so many ways. Right now I feeling angry because I am forced to stay at home without a job. Also really well done to talk about homophobia and put more representation in it, I think it’s the first time that I see an openly gay main character, strong and not letting pass any kind of disrespect for her being a lesbian.,Characters were well developed, many times it felt like I was with real people playing and every time I’d go in a journey alone I actually felt alone.,,This game is a pill hard to swallow, not in a bad way, it’s just because I’d write the story differently giving a happy life in the end. I think that’s why people didn’t like, because we want to find some hope in the end and this one gave us nothing but imagination of what will happen next, and Ellie ended up alone, that really got me since her fear was to end up alone, that was so sad. So if you guys are planning a sequel either to finish the series of them trying to find a cure, and giving a happy life to Ellie so her existence has some meaning in the last of us world, bc right now all I can feel about her is sorry and she being my favourite character is like heartbreaking.,,I have to admit I didn’t wanted to play with Abby, I was reluctant and killed her many times lol but I started to like her in the end, not a big like but it just shows again how human this video game is, showing that everything has 2 sides and we can easily apply this to real life.,,This game has loads to think and process so people that are not open to accept what it brings and are projecting their own frustrations towards it will not really get it.,Also congratulations to take the risk and put minorities in it. I saw a bunch of people get really mad about it and show their homophobic beliefs.,,I disagree with loads of stuff in this game but it doesn’t change the fact that is amazing. Will play again and please, it not a part 3, at least give us a DLC!
6649) This is awesome, no more words...,Big thanks to Naughty Dog & SONY,Very deep story
6650) This is a great game, this game leaves you with exactly the hoplessness Naughty Dog wants you to have in the post apocalyptic world that TLOU2 is set in. The graphics are some of the best I've seen, combat is fresh with new things like silenced weapons and crossbows along with new infected types to match. The story at time is lacking but on the same breath wins your heart over with the Elie & Dina relationship. The game lives up well to its predecessor. Have played once and am already looking forward to a survivor and grounded game.
6651) The last of us part II is an amazing continuation to the story of part 1. Just like part one, this story will grab you emotionally in ways you are uncomfortable with. The scenery is amazing and you can feel the affect the apocalypse has had on the world over time. 1 warning, be ready to feel emotions you didn't think are possible for a game. Play attention to the dates of other ratings. They are false and misleading. They ratted the game before release and before they finished it.
6652) Well worth the 7 year wait. Seamless. Perfect.,Fantastic character development, updated graphics and mechanics. Stunning details.
6653) I've never played a game that made me feel so much raw emotion. I feel its truly another level for video games. I hope more will follow.
6654) I don’t understand why all these people hate this game so much. I did not touch the info field for this game, because I was afraid of spoilers and information drains.,First, briefly: The game has its drawbacks in all directions, but the pros cover all the cons.,Most importantly, do not listen to anyone, make your decision, as this game is played and looks completely different.  Perfect different emotions.,Before I sat down to play, I made myself set to just play and enjoy the gameplay and history, since we need games to show us the story and give us tools to make us feel like the main character.,And this game coped with these tasks for the whole 100. I cried when Joel was killed, my heart was breaking over all the experiences of Ellie, but maybe Abby was shown very crumpled, but still you get used to it. The final caused me such a storm of emotions that I then departed for 3 hours from everything that they tried to convey to us.  Yes, this is done directly on the forehead, but it works.,But if you don’t take the place of the main characters, if you rested your horn (oh my God they killed Joel my favorite character and blah blah blah) and stop at least somehow thinking empathize then you can immediately delete the game this is not for you.,Ah, if everything continues like this, then soon we will live in carbon copy games, where there will be nothing, no innovations, no stories that break the soul, nothing.  only MOBA, royal battles, and lootboxes.  And it will be the most disgusting world.
6655) this game is an absolute masterpiece! it is so fun getting abby killed over and over. whether she's getting her neck snapped by a giant zombie, falling off a cliff, or getting set on fire, the game never gets old! i applaud naughty dog for putting so much effort and detail into abby's death scenes. at one point i took too many hours trying to progress through a level because it was just too much fun watching abby get stabbed to death by ellie! that's how entertaining it is watching abby get killed!,,this game deserves 10/10! thank you naughty dog!
6656) This game is one of the most original and creative stories in a game or maybe any medium. Maybe it’s not the Joel and Ellie story some people were looking for, but that doesn’t mean that by default that it’s bad. The game is about the cycle of violence, it’s consequences, and the many different perspectives. There are no good guys or bad guys in this story. Each character is shown in equal light, we get to understand their choices and the player isn’t supposed to agree with everything. This game isn’t a sequel about the characters from the first one, it is a continuation that uses those characters to show a larger story about hate, revenge, and the path that it all leads to.
6657) I can't understand the hatred and bad criticism of the game.,,The game is a masterpiece. You can put yourself in the different characters very well. Many criticize that some characters from the first part no longer act as usual, PEOPLE it has been almost 5 years between part 1 and part 2. Of course, characters can change during this period, I mean Elli and Co are not Peter Pan who does not want to grow up.,A few flashbacks logically convey these developments to the player.,,There is no need to say anything about the graphics and sound, as in the first part it was great.,,The story also has a nice length where there are some quiet passages from time to time, but I used these sections to look at the surroundings.,,The story telling is also very successful, you can put yourself in the characters and feel the same as what the game wants to say: HATE & REVENGE!,In between and at the end you don't really know who the good and who are the bad, which I think is awesome because everyone should decide for themselves. Since you play both parties and you can get to know each other well, this is usually difficult to assess.,,In my opinion, the few who rate the game without having played it through are just followers who follow the criticism hype. One should not compare this part directly with the first part, because it is simply a different story. If I still had to compare the two parts, I would say that both are equally good in their own way.,,It was a nice journey into the unknown, thank you Naughty Dog.,I hope so much that a third part will appear, since Naughty Dog as well as in the first and in the second part did everything right.,,I have only two negative points of criticism:,1. No multiplayer,2. I find the list of trophies a little too easy. Unfortunately there is no trophy that requires you to play through the game on survivor difficult, I think that's a shame.,,But otherwise my Game of the year !!!
6658) Overall great game, gameplay allows for multiple playstyles, very realistic, open and vast levels, and a brilliant story that keeps you on a fence of moral ambiguity paired with some of the best acting I've ever seen motion captured
6659) After so many years i thought they would fk it up, but they outdone themselves. The game is so well written, i dont even excel in literature and i understood the story.. its sad that people that might be smarter than me didnt get the story and called it trash mostly because one certain character died, or because everything you have come through "wasnt worth it",,It was. Abby and Ellie both have great hearts, sadly Abby lost it, and after killing the certain character she was doing everything she could to make up for it.. when i saw her story, it was full of happiness,a bit of sadness and anger. It takes balls to do something like what happened in The last of us 2, and that is why the game is and always will be above 8/10 no matter how many negative reviews there will be. Dont listen to the dumb people and try it instead, try to get into the story, feel,live it, try to understand and you will not regret it.
6660) Many people are angry that the game did not go the way they wanted;  Although there is little negative criticism regarding gameplay or graphics, there are many bad opinions about the story.  It wasn't what I would have wanted, but at the end of the day where's the fun in that? Where's the surprise?   I may still prefer TLOU part 1, but not because of expectations I will give an unfair criticism of a good game. Even thought, the multiplayer option was necessary. (The rating that I give is to balance the results of the review bomb).
6661) "Revenge is a fools game",TLOU 2 is one of the most interesting games I have played. Graphics are obviously awesome. Gameplay is alright (it could be a bit more intuitive like uncharted but its not a big deal).,The reason for the high ranking is the story. I like it. Its about the relativity of revenge. Everything someone does out of hate backfires -> thats the morale of the **** story.,I catch myself thinking about it a lot. But the most astonishing thing about this game is: It teaches you about human behaviour. The game achieves this effect not only through its story but also through the impact it had on gamers. Never was a well-made game praised by the critics and doomed by the the users at the same time. Surprisingly the most reviews were given 48 hours after release, which is funny because the game is 25 - 30 hours long.,,However, The Last Of Us II was an experience I surely wont forget.
6662) Within the first 2 and a half hours of this game I hated it. I did not like what I saw and where the story was going. I felt like the game was trying to force something on me and I was not happy. As I continued playing the gameplay kept me interested. The story started to build and I became captivated. And then right in the middle of the game it all changed. I was forced, again, to do something I did not want just so I can care about them. At this point I know what the story wanted me to feel; “take a step in someone else shoes”. To me, that did not matter. The sound work in this game was incredible and with the talented artist at Naughty Dog you can feel like you are there in the once populated, now abandoned, stores and houses in Seattle. You really feel like it’s storming outside your own home while playing. Even though I did not like playing the “second half” of the game I could not ignore the beautiful and creepy atmosphere round every corner. As I continued on playing, the game finally comes full circle to an event of crossing paths (I’m really trying not to spoil anything here). Let’s just say, this was even harder for me to play, so much so, that I kept allowing myself to die for satisfaction. If the game would have ended there I would have been even more pissed. My anger for revenge while playing the game grew more. Going through this story was rich with a lot of highs and lows, but differently more lows, however, nothing prepared me for what happened next. Naughty Dog as proved to me that they are The best at telling stories. I came into the game with a story of my own and wanted justice. I wanted to tell Naughty Dog how to tell this story. It wasn’t until the end of this game it ALL MADE SENSE. The moments in this game that I hated became understandable. I felt so sorry at the end. I use to beg for one thing to happened but when faced with it I put the controller  down. I felt guilty and by the end I just saying “please don’t do this”. This story set heavy on me at the end. Feeling all kinds of emotion. I’ve never felt that way playing a game before. This is not a game you can just watch someone play to understand it. YOU HAVE TO EXPERIENCE IT YOURSELF. This game will make you think about senseless deaths in video games and say, “who was that person? What’s their story”. To many people, you may not ever want to ask that question in a game. And 99.99% of games will never ask you too and that’s great. That’s what makes this game special because it does. And is revenge truly worth it. I’m in awe of this game and know that this game will age like fine wine. I was there to buy The Last of Us part One when it first came out. It had somewhat of a small following that grew over time. I have no doubt that the some of the people who hated the plot of this game will eventually try it; whether that be 3 years from now or 7 years. It’s always the consumer choice to buy what they want to play and I’m so glad I gave this game a chance even though the leaks of this game made me not want to. This game is a 10/10.
6663) A masterpiece continued splendidly. My favorite game always and always :)))
6664) Literally just go play the game!! Gameplay alone is worth it, then add on the beautiful soundtrack, sound effects, and an amazing story! No reason this game should get the bad reviews it gets. People have to remember it is a game about survival not a Marvel/Disney production.
6665) This game doesn't deserve a 10 by any means, it deserves  a 7 just like IGN Japan did.,,I am trying to socre to make a rigt average, this game is overpraised or overated by the journalists, specially from USA.
6666) This game is perfection, I don't give a **** what they say, I love this game with all my heart, so Thanks Naughty Dog for this masterpiece and **** those haters.
6667) The most incredible game that i've ever played. I was upset at the beginning, like a lot of people, but i didn't vote against this game because im not a dickhead. Now, i already beat it, and i can say that is the most emotional and breathtaking game of this damn world. Indeed, it doesn't start in the best way, but the developing of the story is just amazing. In terms of gameplay, sound, graphics, etc, is a revolution for the gaming industry 10/10.
6668) If you just play it you'll come to the conclusion that it is an awesome and amazing game.  It has a great story that is gripping and gut wrenching. The gun play is excellent. You really get a sense of the weight and power a gun/weapon has within the game. The enemy AI is astonishing. Enemies will flank you and hunt you down. There's nowhere to hide. The graphics and physics are off the charts. There is so much attention to detail within the world that it is at times mesmerizing. Best graphics of this generation I'd say. Simply stated, the game is worthy of the 10s that its received across the board.,Don't listen to the people trying to hide their political and intolerant views by trying to disguise it with fake takes and opinions on how the game is.,It's clearly obvious that there is an effort to tank the game by a certain group of people. A game with this much production value, careful detail and effort couldn't be further from the zeroes and ones that it is receiving. They most likely read the story and inferred from credible reviews to appear as if they know what the game is about.,Don't be mislead and skip the game because of the fake reviews. You'll be missing out on a once in a generation game if you do.
6669) One of the Best game i ever played in my in life. Amazing graphics. Incredible gameplay. Recommend to everyone play this game
6670) it's an incredible story, very different from what everyone is used to, they definitely have to give it a try
6671) Loved it, graphics were amazing, acting was amazing, story wasn’t wasn't as bad as most say, play the game and you'll realize this game is actually one of the best you've played since the first Last of us.
6672) The game is absolutely gorgeous. It’s a masterpiece.,People just are just too attached to happy endings
6673) Look, the reality is this game is meant to make you uncomfortable, and I’m not talking about the violence. Many fans go in with a lot of love for these characters and want nothing bad to happen to them or see them in a negative light. NG could have easily given people what they wanted, but they didn’t want to give fans what they felt entitled to, but write the story THEY wanted with the characters THEY own. Everything is AAA, but how you react to it will ultimately be your choice. Most, if not all, the negative reviews that are legitimate and not bandwagoning a vendetta, are reactionary rather than an actual criticism of the games quality. If anything hating the story for how it made you feel is a completely predictable reaction. Like I have no doubt people at NG are smiling because they succeeded in telling the story the wanted and they know there would be some who came out of it feeling hopeless and others feeling like they just got off a rollercoaster.,,I am a rollercoaster rider. Always have been. I don’t play video games because I’m owed something by creators I play them for the same reason I read book, for the experience. Whatever that entails I’m always open to it. 5 years from now people will look back on this game and say it was wild and people will talk about it probably for decades.,,If you’re like me, just go in and let the story do what it’s gonna do. You can’t stop it, but you can choose to experience it without pettiness. It’s up to you. I hope we see more of these uncompromising visions in all media. The game has so much to offer if you let it.
6674) Incredible gameplay, Incredible graphics, Incredible character development. All amazing, no words.
6675) This game .... just fine! Joel was really sorry, and then .... I realized that this game is manipulating me. yes, yes (I cried). I continued to play with tears in my eyes. I wanted to kill everyone who was involved in his death. In short, buy this game if you want to cry
6676) I'm not just here to fight the hate bomb some brainless dude dropped on this game.,You can't give ZERO to a game just beacuese "My favourite character died, gne gne gne!",This game has SO much into it. The gameplay is just gorgeous, you never get tired of it.,Replayability 100/100, not only for the several interpretations you can give by thinking from every single character's point of view, but even for a GREAT option selection to play this game as you want.,I didn't love TLOU, but this second chapter is amazing. You guys can't rate ZERO a game just because u didn't like the story. Even with a **** trash story this game would have been a strong 7/10 for it's gameplay.
6677) I Played the game, and it´s the best game I ever played.,excellent grafic quality resolutions, the gameplay was awesome, the storylines it´s amazing, and I liked the personal personality of the characters.
6678) The game is very well done, graphics looks realistic and really well made for a ps4, the animations are very smooth and make the gameplay feel so dynamic, about the story if you play it open minded of course it’s actually a good story for a game like the last of us, a raw world where tragedy is an everyday topic
6679) It is just great. For all the people that is rating bad this game, most of them haven't even play it or buy it. You can see it at the rating in the ps store, you can only rate with stars the game if you have buy it. And in that rating, it has 5 stars, so don't listen at the people who say something else, this game is perfect and incredible.
6680) I don't ever post game reviews, but after the cathartic experience of finishing this game, and finding out it was review bombed (of course it was), I had to post my thoughts.,,This is a story about forgiveness, how hard and downright impossible it can sometimes be, and what that does to the human soul. Structurally, it wasn't working for me fully at first, but by the end it won me over and almost had me in tears. If you're expecting a linear experience like the first game, this is going to be jarring at first.,,But of course, that is not the criticism this game is receiving.,,Here is a tentpole sequel that had the gumption to feature - with no fanfare - a cast of ethnically diverse women, a lesbian couple, a trans child, and a synagogue.,,I think the notion that any of this is "forced" or "distracts from the narrative" is a good litmus test for who is still mired in the patriarchy and who is not.,,In the first game - with a story genuinely on par with Children of Men - you play as and grow to empathize with a man named Joel. He then makes irredeemable choices in the name of love and loyalty for his surrogate daughter, Ellie. This dissonance is supposed to make the player uncomfortable. That's what makes the story memorable. Joel murders innocent people, robs Ellie of her agency, and gaslights her.,,What I didn't realize is that many fans of the game completely aligned with Joel's choices. There is no moral ambiguity, no internal conflict with their inherent complicity as the player - they believe all his decisions are righteous.,,I only learned people felt this way once The Last Of Us II met "Last Jedi" level outrage that - god forbid - there are consequences for those actions. "Controversy," uninitiated bystanders would call it.,,The comparison to The Last Jedi is at once fair and flawed. The Last Jedi seemed to consciously highlight women and diversity and was met with much hatred and bigotry. However, unlike The Last Of Us II, The Last Jedi failed (or chose not to) honor the story that came before. It insisted that sort-of-wrong characters like Laura Dern's were squarely in the right, and assassinated the previously likable characters of Poe and Finn, who promised to be very different people in The Force Awakens.,,In The Last Of Us II, the characters make decisions that make sense for them, and the game passes no judgment on whether those decisions are right or wrong.,,Most importantly, the theme of the game seems to be empathy. The game forces you to play as characters on both sides of a conflict, which is a truly uncomfortable experience. The discomfort is the point.,,This seems to be lost on a minority of very loud people. They thought that an influential piece of art condoned their toxic masculinity when it was actually trying to caution against it. The second game lays that bare, in what must seem like an absolute betrayal to them. But the writing didn't change - they just wildly misinterpreted the material.,,It's not a coincidence that the first target of their backlash is the game's bolstered representation. Critics of this will insist that they're not any "ist" or "phobic," but that this was not the time or place. Maybe they forget that the first game featured a scene in a church, a gay man, and 3 secondary black characters. Or maybe they'll say that those were limited enough to not "distract" from the story; as if representation and the story were ever at odds.,,By all means, we should voice dissatisfaction when a piece of media tokenizes a character or acts self-congratulatory about doing so (re: Le Fou in live-action "Beauty and the Beast"). I personally hate when content feels pandering or preachy (re: live-action "Aladdin," I think I'm sensing a theme here). But The Last Of Us II does not do that. It's depicting life, which happens to contain women, Jews, LGBTQ people, and Asians (among others.) So if seeing a piece of media that does not affirm their distorted worldview causes these (presumably) white (definitely) men distress, I feel genuinely bad for them - they're victims of the patriarchy too.
6681) Great Job Naughty Dog! This game is unbelievable. The best story game, i have ever been seen. Thank you so much! Most users only rate by story. The game didn't deserve that!
6682) Wonderful game! Wonderful history! I absolutely loved it! The graphics  are very good. I missed the characters.
6683) There is nothing "poor" about the story in this game. The story is harsh and brutal in every sense. At times it's very uncomfortable to watch but that doesn't make it "bad" or "poor". Quite the contrary. This game manages to evoke very strong emotions in the player. Some of them are negative and/or confusing but that's exactly the point. It's what makes the message of this game so effective. The review bombing going on here simply shows that a large part of the gaming community still has some growing up to do. In my opinion, down the line this game will be remembered as one of the great milestones in gaming. Not only for it's technical and artistic achievements, but for it's ballsy narrative design that shows how and why video games can be so much more effective than other media, like films or books.
6684) A lot of people either have not played or are trolls either way, you need to play the game in full to really experience how wonderful it is, you are all mad about joels death and about the game being more inclusive with showcasing diverse characters but thats another thing that makes the game so good, and people who are mad about that are just bigots, shut the hell up and enjoy this masterpiece, yes the ending is unfavourable but it opens up the oppurtunity for another installment in the series which druckman hinted at, its not joels story anymore, its about ellie now and you all knew that from the beginning and we knew joel would probably die so stop complaining, you are all boring as hell, its a good game, it was the right choice for the story continuing and it was joels time, but its not like you dont see joel, there lie plenty of opportunities to see him, calm down, and play the game in full before you give it bad reviews, its not for everyone sure but its pointless to ignore the rest of the game just cause you dont like one part.
6685) Best graphics of the generation, improved gameplay,excellent narrative...10!
6686) Amazing graphics, gameplay, story, everything. As close to perfect as I’ve ever seen.
6687) a simply perfect game, the best story in a video game, finally a real story in a video game
6688) Absolute masterpiece and technical accomplishment. Tense gameplay, riveting story, philosophical themes. Hands down, one of the best games ever made. I guess I’m just an SJW cuck though, huh?
6689) One of the best games i played in my life.,gameplay is much more better than the first one and the graphics and sound design are top notch.,For the story it would have never appealed to everyone as it is clear now. most people who played the game and don't like it is actually in denial of what happens and i get it . it is that strong. emotional journey from start to finish. and the set pieces in the game are amazing so so good.,definitely a game for mature audiences not cry babies who refused to even try the game because either for pity personal reasons or being brainless about it.,highly recommended.
6690) I really don’t understand the majority of hate towards this game. Maybe people are too attached to some of the characters of the first game (which understand as the first game incredible) and are upset they aren’t involved as much as they’d like, but even so I enjoyed the new characters enough that I didn’t mind that some others took a step back.
6691) Joel would never be sone enough to give his real name to complete strangers, it's like naughty dog forgot the first game even happened. Complete disrespect to Joel's character.
6692) Ok so Im about half way through the game and first of all that's alot longer than most people played before rating it. People rated this game a low score 2 hours in where something major happens.  It's stupid don't listen to the reviews their all just mad baby's who can't take a sad hard deep story.  This game is amazing from the beautiful graphics to the intriguing characters and story and the writing is excellent. This Is by far one my most favorite games ever. It drew me in so quick and yes they do have similar mechanics from the first game but I mean what do you expect. There's not much you can do to a system that's not flawed. They made the game play smoother, more fun, and it perfected it. This is some of the best stealth game play that I have ever seen. It's so fun and just so amazing. This game is phenomenal and don't think it's bad by just playing till a major story beat happens. Spend some time with it.  And also to all the people who were completely shocked by what happened, come on seriously you should've known it would happen. Where else would they take the story and make it as good as the last one.   The game is phenomenal
6693) Awesome game! One of the best I’ve ever played. Story is absolutely great! Haters gonna hate.
6694) The best Game of the Year ❤ I love this game so much and i find this is better than the first part.
6695) shut the **** up everyone,this game is great and you all don't understand anything about plots and videogames
6696) Best game ever made. Lots of hate coming it’s way for dumb reasons. I love it.
6697) I do not understand, not the satisfaction of most people, personally my opinion after passing the game) I just let out a stingy tear at the end and got into the whole moral thing. You go from the very beginning with one awareness of revenge. But in the end you understand whether you need it now . Killing so many people, losing all their relatives . The result for me is a decent game!!!
6698) The last Of Us Part 1 & 2 are the best games in my entire life, Period!,No offense to the others that rate this game so low, my respect to them, but this game is awsome in everything GUYS!,Thank you Neil Druckmann, thank you Naugthy Dog,I don't know what to say to these guys for making this awsome game...!!!,Just a very very big THANKS!
6699) What a great game! The graphics, The gameplay. Incredible! And my thoughts on the story?,I love Ellie and liked Joel, but what he did at the end of the first game was a hard decision but a wrong one. Killing Fireflies who fought for a future and a Doctor who was so precious in these times was unacceptable. It was tough how he got killed, but frankly, it was only a matter of time before someone demanded revenge.,,So it was Abby. I have to say I didn't like her in the beginning, but in the end, I did. And I was glad that she survived the game thanks to Ellie. Both paid a high price for their revenge.,,For example, after Joel Ellie lost her Horse Shimmer, Jesse, her ability to play guitar, her relationship, and almost Tommy. He lost an eye and his leg is ruined.,,After Jerry Abby lost her Dog, Alice, her love Owen and her friends Manny, Mel with her baby, Jordan, Leah, Nick, Nora, after being tortured by Ellie? Nora lived after we hit her three times with the pipe because Ellie returns to the theater and says: I made her talk.,,Anyway, it was a tough and long journey. Can't wait for part III. Thanks, Naughty Dog.
6700) This game is amazing! The best game ever made. Please, more games like this. Thanks NaughtyDog, one of the my bests experiences.
6701) A Really thought out story, Great Script, and Great Graphics, A really good story in a exciting game!!
6702) I personally enjoyed the game. Most people are mad about Joel's death, but that was a good way to start a revenge story. The overall gameplay was fantastic. I do agree that the story in the first one is better, but I don't understand why people hate this game so much. The voice acting and animation fantastic. Yeah when you play from the perspective of the villan you may not agree with their point of view, but you understand it.
6703) Fantastic game. Ignore the 0’s, many come from people who haven’t even played the game. Incredible animations and gameplay, great graphics. The world is beautiful and immersive and I had a great time exploring it. Story can be divisive and controversial, but I think as a whole the game is great.
6704) To the people holding of their purchase because of the bad user ratings: Don’t.,I have to be completely honest, I’ve not finished the game, not by a long shot. But I love it. Just as I loved part 1. Don’t be a dick and ruin a games’s reputation by giving misleading critique.
6705) This game is a unique experience! You experience every type of feeling during the game, anger, happiness, ...,This game is soo good and soo painful at the same time! It isn’t a happy story and that makes it a masterpiece!,A must play!
6706) Despite what many other are saying I very much enjoyed this game. What I think they are trying to go for in this game is a lesson on perspective when you play as Abby you get to see her as a human and why she did it now whether u pity her or still hate her is up to you, personally I still hated her. I think the story in this game is a new kind of story that is interesting. Neil took a lot of risks with this game and most of it worked out. For the people who think that there is forced identity politics and forced LGBT ideas, there's not, Ellie has been known that she was lesbian since the DLC from the first game and honestly the fact that there are some LGBT aspects in this game makes it a little more interesting. Now I'm not some big LGBT supporter that thinks stuff like this should be shoved down peoples throats at all i dont think that's right but I think that the LGBT aspects in the game fit and really what does it matter, it makes some good story points too.,This game is definitely one of the more realistic games, this had me on my feet for almost the entire game because I couldn't predict what would happen i loved the game play it felt fluid and the way you could move your character was awesome.,Did it match up to the first game? Story wise? No, definitely not the first game is a masterpiece and I think pretty much everyone would agree. But I still think that this game is one of a kind and definitely worth playing.
6707) The best piece of media I have ever consumed. Haunting and heartfelt. Violent and beautiful. A masterpiece. Don’t understand the negative reviews so I made an account to give the game it’s due credit.
6708) I loved the game and the story, even with all its flaws. Just wish Ellie hadn’t left Dina and JJ.
6709) Ignore the people blinded by rage. I had my doubts before the game released but Naughty Dog has outdone themselves. It’s probably the most cinematic game I’ve ever played (in a good way). The voice acting and mo-cap is Oscar worthy tbh. The best cast in a game. The gameplay is insanely fun. I’m playing new game+ even though I just finished the game yesterday and it’s mostly to find new ways to kill people. Now... the story. It may be too much for some people but to me, it was fantastic. I won’t say too much but just know that you may be angry at first but keep playing with an open mind. I loved this game and I hope people don’t get scared away by the review bombing
6710) Please don't listen to all the haters that rated this game 0s or 1s. Play it for yourself to get your true answer as to how great this game is. The gameplay is NOT for everyone I will admit that but if you loved the first one like I did you will like everything about Part 2 I can promise you at least that.
6711) Is it a perfect game? Maybe not, but is definitely one of the greatest games of the generation, a must play without a doubt. Stop trying to hate on this game because it’s great.
6712) I love this masterpiece ❤️ The atmosphere, the soundtrack, the leveldesigns and and are beautiful In my opinion the best game of all time even than the first one! Congrats Naughty Dog!
6713) This game will make you feel a rollercoaster of emotions, and you just have to sit for the ride. Don’t listen to the haters who saw one leak and won’t play, there’s a reason this game has 50 perfect scores from critics, it is hauntingly beautiful, never a dull moment. The gameplay is incredible and the relationships between characters such as Ellie and Dina are truly mesmerizing. Please go into this with an open mind, and buckle up for the ride
6714) This game is just awesome!,Not only on the beautiful graphics, but also on the amazing story, it really put you on perspective that every story has two sides. One of the best experiences I had. A lot of emotions a cross the game. You hate and love the characters, but thats part of it ❤️
6715) A very controversy, brave and emotional game. I was not expecting that deepness and perfection in telling a story that realy hurts the actual enviroment that we live in, giving visibility and suporting causes without ruining the story and actually giving it a great direction to go foward. Great experience, best game in ps4, Maybe best game ever.
6716) Until the next game of naughty dog this is the best game ever!!! Tlou part one and tlou part 2 is a master piece!! Must play game before you die
6717) İt's the game of the year and The geneation,İt has good graphics good gameplay good athmosphere good story and good characters
6718) I enjoyed the moments playing with Ellie and the parts when she go to explore Seattle I think that the game shows more gore and more crude moments, I didn’t like the way the game ends but I understand the reason, the gameplay was beautiful
6719) Not quite as amazing as the first one but I loved it.
6720) One of the best games of all time and the shining star of this generation of consoles. Gamer reviews on here are pathetic and unfounded. Get a life and most of all get TLOU2.
6721) Its very impresive how u can get high with a really really good history,The characters are impresive and the gameplay is amazing 10/10,Congrats Naughty Dog
6722) I really think it's very very good and well created. Even if sometimes there are parts that are confusing, the game is a master piece and it has very good graphics.,The story... Well, not the thing that all wanted, but even if it's not what we expected, it's very good, and it's told in a way that really makes you feel the game.,I think it's a very good option of you really like this kind of games
6723) It's a beautiful looking game with a great atmosphere and incredible soundtrack. They did not improve the main mechanics very much, but added enough to keep the combat encounters fresh and engaging. The level design is also a lot better. Every area feels a more open and gives you more choices and opportunities to tackle the enemy encounters.,,The story was not what I wanted to happen, but once I got over that it was a truly wonderful experience. Naughty dog are unparalleled in cinematic gaming experiences.
6724) A fantastic game. I honestly cannot understand why people have not enjoyed this game. If you enjoyed the first game you'll enjoy this. The game mechanics are fantastic, the character development and story arc of revenge make sense. I know a certain thing which has happens early on has upset alot of people but they need to grow up and realise this is not a fantasy fairytale game.,Graphics are incredible. Ps5 worthy graphics,Well done Naughty Dog and keep churning out your fantastic games and stop listening to the minority of gamers who do not understand true quality games.
6725) The storyline was shockingly written. I honestly can't believe what they decided to do with this, despite having all of the potential in the world to have made another masterpiece.
6726) While TLOU2 made some questionable decisions, I can completely understand why they made them to help fully develop the entire story.
6727) The game is PERFECT, it have some moments that i don't like but its a videogame and the storys in videogames could be the mosts weirds in the world, the game have a greatful world, great enemys, great characters and a great story.
6728) This game is an extension of the first part in every way. While sequels seems to fail to deliver, this second part feels very much like a loyal continuation of Ellie’s journey and now it’s more mature and bizarre than ever. While not only she struggles with her own demons, it’s also about payback and how your actions intertwine with others on a bigger scale, ni matter if they’re out of love or selfishness, but some way or another it all comes back. It’s survival at its best, when ethics are left aside because it’s your life at risk and the people you love, while you have to make hard decisions, it also works as a way of explaining how bad society works and how incredible human we are.
6729) Just an amazing game. Loved the story telling.,There were some uncomfortable moments when you have to play from other POV. But it is a part of story which eventually makes sense and you get attached to other's motives.,Great game.
6730) Did any of you actually play the game or just form your opinion based off leaks? Honestly I didn’t want to like the story either but when I actually PLAYED THE GAME I thoroughly enjoyed it the whole way through. The new infected are down right terrifying. I didn’t want to like the ending and didn’t but when I actually started thinking about it for what it was and the meaning behind it and everything both characters went through I fully understood why they made it. All around a great game with my first play through taking over 30 hours
6731) The game is not what you want... It’s what you need, a true real world narrative, based on hardships. It not afraid to piss it’s fan base off and that’s what makes it so unique.
6732) It's really good, I'm not putting any Spoilers here, because I'm not a **** but most of the haters don't get that the game isn't about revenge, it's about love, redemption, forgiveness and acceptance, the game does all it needs to, I was thinking about rating it a 9, but.when I thought about it, it's a 10.
6733) I personally liked the story and I was surprised the amount of backlash it received. I was surprised that there are a lot of people who wish Ellie finish Abby off in the last fight.,After playing Abby for quite a while and saw the struggles she faced, I was very sad when they both fight at the beach. Killing each other in order to get revenge would bring us nothing other than self satisfaction. If Abby didn't spare Ellie's life in the theater, most likely she will be dead hanged at the beach. But she did and from my perspective, Ellie came and "saved" her from death. It's a reward for Abby for doing so.Ellie spared Abby's life as well. Which might be in her favour who knows when. I really hope we can see TLOU3 with Abby+Ellie combo but seeing the backlash ot received, it'll be foolish for naughty dog to continue the development for this game.,It's the end of the world where humans should come together to find a solution to overcome the infected issue but they didn't. This game showed human behaviour at its best.
6734) Amazing story, excellent graphics. This is the best game I've ever played. Thank you Naughty Dog
6735) Having played the game completely and on my second play through, I would give this game a 9, but pushed it to 10, because of the negative reviews from people who clearly haven't played the game or very little of it. The combat is highly improved from the first with a added dodge function. And the ability to jump and go prone, which adds depth to the combat. Now onto the spoilers. The game is add the vicious circle of violence, it starts with Abbie killing joel and Ellie wanting revenge, with the twist later in the game you see this from Abbies View, this is the part people hate, gamers playing as Abbie the person they hate, the part people miss is the game being about forgiveness as a player, idots miss this point, the story continues OK, the last part is not really necessary, but all round the game is of a high standard  and worth the money, ignore the idiots saying **** like, it has more bugs then fallout 76, I only exprenced one floating gun glitch in my full play through, I highly recommend this game. Don't skip this guys it's a masterpiece.
6736) Well. This was something else entirely that i expected. From Naughty Dog it was very brave and unexpected move to craft a sequel like this. To begin with story was different and refreshing for me. It makes a statement. While it is not one of the best stories it still stands out. And will be story that will not be forgotten. There are some awesome moments as well as some sad and disturbing moments. It is clever in it's own way, but i do not like the way it is told. Something similar to Beyond: Two Souls. Still doesn't make it entirely bad. I see this story as bit above average for my taste. Surely for many people this will disappoint depending on taste. For me this was actually new and unique experience that i haven't experienced and it gives me more than it takes.,,Gameplay was fantastic. It was exiting and engaging. It was bit different from previous game. It actually made you feel under pressure. At some point having a oppressive moments where you not a moment felt safe. There were some unexpected jump scare moments as well. Camera angles made you feel uncomfortable on purpose that made you feel even less safe. It also was quite challenging even in medium difficulty. In the end it was something that i will remember for long.,,Graphics were awesome. They're likely best we will see in this generation of consoles. For example forests felt very realistic there being plants a lot and being cramped. Textures were great and detailed. Animations were perfected. Facial animations showed at some scenes how far they've gotten not only in cutscenes but in gameplay as well. Actually you could not tell much difference from gameplay and cutscenes and the transfer was so smooth. Every setting of areas you get to play were great and unforgettable.,,Shortly story was unique, different and unexpected. It was not bad but not excellent either. Gameplay and graphics were actually biggest strength of this game.
6737) This game is literally amazing in every way, it deserves the 10/10 just for its visuals... Outstanding. Personally, I loved the story, so my recomendation would be to go in with an open mind, and accept whatever turn the game takes, as it will be further developed in the story.,No, there aren´t plot holes, and no, there is not bad writing. Killing off your favourite character who LITERALLY was an a-hole doesn´t mean the game is poor.
6738) One of the best Games i‘ve ever Played. Thank u Naughty Dog!! And now we need uncharted 5!
6739) The first game really got me into gaming when I was 13, it holds a very special place in my heart. So I am not sure if my opinion is inherently bias, keep that in mind while reading. i'm not trying to misinform anyone.,,The Last Of Us Part 2 transcends anything I ever have played, the level of immersion and depth that the world offers is truly unsettling. Whether or not you 'agree' with the way the story was told, I think it's very hard to deny that Naughty Dog has created a world that is as viscous as a post-apocalyptic world should be.,,I don't claim to understand most of the major decisions in the games storytelling, but I believe that's the objective. It doesn't want to come across as a story that has a person controlling it. It wants to be a soul crushing as possible to reinforce the fact that anything can happen to anyone at any time. It leaves you with a massive sense of unease for the safety of the characters you love.,,I hear a lot points made about the feeling of having some sort of agenda forced on to you. I didn't feel that at all. If you have a problem with two women/men kissing and being in a loving relationship, then I would ask you to leave the 1900's and catch up to the rest of us in 2020.,,I feel sorry for everyone that didn't enjoy it or had their opinion corrupted before even playing it, hope you change/open your mind.
6740) Just played through the game, graphics are fantastic, the story is hard. Very hard. Had to take a few moments before continuing at some points.
6741) This game got me so many times!,Story is so good bro, everything, graphics, scenes, everything perfect. Nothing wrong with this amazing piece.
6742) The story and gameplay gave me as much if not more emotions as the first part. And that's always the win in my book. Great game. I applaud the Naughty Dog and Niel Druckman for not catering to their fan base and making something that stands out from any expected scenario for a sequel.
6743) The game is just wonderful, the ending brings to tears. It's a shame that crazy,people express their opinions even without participating in the game.
6744) The story is amazing, the gameplay brutal, criticizing this game just by how joel died that's very childish, and even criticizing that ellie was lesbian pfff, people can be very stupid
6745) It's a beautiful experience in all ways possible, better gameplay and mechanics, the guitar parte wow
6746) This game is just wonderful.,The scenario is just amazing, one of the best game scenario ever !,Let haters hate and ignore the ignorants...
6747) One of the best games of the generation. Like it’s predecessor, the last of us part II comes with a rough but deep history about the revenge and it’s consequences. As we could expected from naughty dog, the narrative is solid and polish, where the character’s development being the main aspect. In it’s technical aspects the game also is brilliant, with amazing graphics and details, and a very dynamic combat system. The Last of Us 2 is definitely a must play for everyone who likes video games and deep stories.
6748) I think the new character is great as well as the ending, albeit sad. But it was emotional and a great way to end the story with the two beloved characters.
6749) The game has an amazing gameplay but the story was a little bad I enjoyed it to be honest, the only thing i didn’t like about the game is playing as Abby
6750) "Naughty Dog" in this story leads you to wonder about what is good or bad and what is justice, always from the perspective of everyone involved.
6751) Between The Trolls rating 1's despite likely not playing the game and the people who missed the point of the story, this will be rated lower than it truly deserves.  In this game, Naughty Dog told a story which asked people to set aside their own biases and their own hate and the game put them in the shoes of the "other" to get the player to understand another person's perspective.  Unfortunately, there are too many unwilling or just incapable of that.  I consider this game to basically be a sociology experiment that has revealed so much about so many people.
6752) Just finished the game and I have to say I loved it plays looks amazingand the story was brilliant don't understand were all the hate is coming from.so please make up Ur own mind and pick this game it's better than any movie of it type of story
6753) The Last of Us Part 2 is one of the most brutal, gut wrenching, thematically poignant and controversial video game storylines I've ever experience.
6754) Medium redefining masterpiece of story telling and refined gameplay.,This is the best production - technically and artistically - I’ve ever seen in a video game. Admittedly - the final result is polarizing and divisive, and this was definitely a massive risk taken by Naughty Dog. Impactful, engaging and provocative, this game is not only spectacular in its own self - it’ll also have a profound effect on how narrative-driven games are designed for a long while to come. Or at least until Naughty Dog redefines the genre. Again.
6755) A true masterpiece.,Sublime...,A spectacular second half of master-class creation.,Naughty Dog have done it again.,:)
6756) I have just put this game down after 31hrs and I am genuinely speechless. It's so rare to feel like you are playing something that is not only moving the medium forward in new and unprecedented ways, but also transcends and subverts all expectations in regards to narrative and storytelling. Where Naughty Dog go from here I do not know, but I know one thing. It's going to be many years until another game comes close to matching the standard set by The Last of Us Part 2.
6757) The game was for me the perfect continuation of part 1. The story is emotional af and I really felt with the characters. The criticism I hear is in my opinion too hard for what game we have here, of course the story is hard but in my view it’s realistic and the perfect way to go.
6758) Finished the game and I hardly say it's a masterpiece but its not a garbage either. It's a good experience to play through the end of it though I'm not satisfied about the ending.I really hoped that there is a option and consequences through the user actions, maybe a lot of users would love this game. I really enjoyed the game and never regret deciding that I bought it. It's just that this game is not recommend for people with one-sided mind set. A lot of events is really hard to take in. I'm really glad that I finished the game before judging it. I'm rating this game 10/10 not because its great but to help the score go up. It's a seriously misunderstood game that get judged before playing the actual game.,To naughtydog: if your reading this, don't let others user review to get you down, the game is actually good. Keep up making good games ike this but please don't pay critics to give a good review, It's obviously a lie and make you look like desperate.
6759) From the picture of the game and the operation of the plot, the game is a good game worth playing
6760) I've never had such emotional response to a work of fiction before.,They took very brave decisions with the story, and for me it was all brilliant. Exactly what I want from a story. Misery in fiction is cozy to me. If that's not your cake, it might not be the game for you.,,Best console graphics I've seen. Great acting, phenomenal sound design.,Game play had room for improvement, but was good enough.
6761) It’s the great game, I forgot when I feel so cool Emotions! It’s GOTY and game of this generation, in my mind
6762) I wanna say this game is a Masterpiece just by the fact how people are arguing and hating it. Above all things I think our problem here starts with Joel being too badass and Ellie being too cool and cute in the first game. As Joel says in the ambush with Ellie, he had been on both sides. He was once with those we killed violently in the first game. He was once what were our enemies in the first game. If he was on the "other side" he was probably killing people that we wouldn't consider our enemies?? After that we have the hospital scene. Joel gets crazy and goes guns blazing throughout the hospital, kills unarmed doctors and nurses and prevent the cure from being created. Not only did he do this he also had that ultimate lie at the end. Nevertheless we all depicted Joel as a true hero! (myself included, I had allegedly said "Joel is the best character in the video game world" but why? Did naughty dog drawn us so deep into Joel's life? Seeing Joel being killed like that was too much too digest. No character would never feel like Joel again. Ellie is no longer that cute cool girl. She's still haunted by Joel's lie. Furthermore we get to play with the one who killed our hero. And it did felt like "despite all the effort to show Abby's life is also hard and not more special than anybody else", it did. In the beggining it is unconfortable to play with her. No matter what good deeds she's up too. She's the one who killed Joel and deserves to die. It was like Naughty Dog was forcing a character into us. But it wasn't. And that's the part where the game is revolucionary. It didn't come to please, it came to shock and make us wonder. We got too attached to the first game and to Joel and young Ellie. The first game leaves us with some questions and opinions, but despite all the bad things Joel had done, he was still depicted as a hero and people didn't even have the chance to play with him. Turns out the way the story unfolded was the story where Joel was no hero and we weren't prepared for that. I still give this game a 10. It went further to a next level of gaming. For those complaining about "swj" and "agenda", I'm sorry for you. I'm really sorry the prejudice is strong enough to prevent you from enjoying a game where women are the most important characters. And don't you think is weird that not even in a fictional VIDEO GAME women can't have a moment? Were women the problem? Or because they didn't have big **** If you can't tolerate women, if you aren't able to tolerate different gender on a FICTIONAL GAME, go get help.
6763) 10/10 masterpiece must play game. It blew my expectations away. TLOU series is a must play for gamers and non gamers alike.
6764) Absolutely loved every second of playing this game. Naughty Dog really pulled off something amazing here and it has become my favourite game of all time
6765) This is, by far, the most amazing experience I had in any entertainment form.,The soundtrack is amazing, the gameplay is excellent, and the graphics are just jaw dropping.,The story, even if it has some holes and some may not love it, makes the player go throw a journey that words just can't describe. This is an amazing work of art, ND has done amazing work and took some crazy risks. Hope to see more games like this. This is truly one of a kind.  A must play.
6766) Simply the best game of the generation. Flawless graphics, perfect and realistic gameplay, incredible characters and extremely deep. I cannot describe all the emotions that this game made me feel. The story had a drastic change compared to the first game, and many are criticizing this point, but, I believe that those who are giving this hate to the game, have not even finished the story. It's the best game of the generation, and the biggest release from Sony. Thank you NaughtyDog, for that masterpiece.,10/10
6767) This is a great, great game! Don’t buy into the hate. Best game I’ve played – since part I. The sick comments directed to the cast and creators is **** up. Idiots. Those of you who claim to be fans of The Last of Us and rate this 0 is just full of **** **** off.
6768) Very bad story compared to the 1st. Everything scene is not exciting as the last of us 1. But the gameplay is flawless tho
6769) This game is amazing!  I loved the first game. Played it like 10 times at least. And was exited for this game. Although u was scared because i knew they wouldnt top the first game. I started playing this game, and everything from the graphic to the characters to the gameplay is perfect. Such a good game and really a must play.
6770) Absolutely brilliant. Very different to the first game, but gives characters consequences for that actions in the first game. It's not the Joel and Ellie story anymore, so if that's what you're looking for, it's not what you're in for.
6771) A masterpiece, i'm sorry for those people who simply can't understand that......
6772) Great game, poor negative review,I don't understand why I want to target this game
6773) This is the game of the year, HEAR ME OUT! From playing the first one on both the ps3 and the ps4 versions of the games, i had high hoped for this one and it gets good from the start, the mechanics feel fresher, the graphics are such an upgrade (it feels like i'm playing on my pc lol) and the story is rich and fresh, and doesn't feel rushed. over 25 to 30 hours in and i wanted more, i just wish they gave us multiplayer like the first one but that won't ruin the score considering i will be replaying the story for the platinum trophy. i hope people see this review and helps them out on their opinion about the last of us
6774) best game i ever play, yea play for abby is maybe too much but this story is best
6775) The Last of Us (2013) is one of my favourite, if not my absolute favourite, games of all time. It had a phenomenal cast, writing, score, world-building, and atmosphere. However, the now 7 year old game is a rough play these days - the gameplay which was mediocre at the time, feels very dated by today's standards.,Enter The Last of Us Part II. The game is an improvement in every single way. The cast is even better, with incredible performances from old favorites and new characters. Whilst the first game had strong methodology to its storytelling, the actual story itself was fairly predictable and didn't really tread new ground; the presentation of that story was what carried it. TLoU2 tells a more unique story - one that is less relatable than the father-daughter dynamic explored in the first, but less 'safe' and more intriguing as a result. I fell in love with the new characters, who are incredibly well written and performed. Then there's the gameplay. This game plays very, very well. The gunplay is weighty and satisfying, and the melee combat is brutal and less button-mashy than the first game, with a much welcomed dodge mechanic. Movement if fluid, and the transition between character animations is buttery smooth. I often found myself breaking stealth intentionally just so I could experience the thrill of gunfights, although often the gunfights began simply because the AI is a lot better at noticing you than in most games. I have nothing but praise for this redesigned AI - they can spot you from further away than you'd expect, and just because you're crouching in tall grass doesn't make you invisible, but I never felt like the AI was cheating either. Once combat begins, they push you aggressively, coordinating with each other to flank you from multiple angles which makes combat genuinely challenging, and not by simply making them deal lots of damage or being blessed with divine accuracy. They call out one another's names when a comrade falls, and writhe in pain on the floor when your hunting rifle takes an arm off.,Naughty Dog has created a triumph of a game, and one that has very quickly dethroned the previous game and God of War as my favourite game of all time. I thoroughly look forward to the release of the multiplayer, whenever that may be.
6776) Best game ever. It’s such a shame to live in this world and spoil the rating just because you see anything but only death and revenge. Open your eyes! This game is not about killing but about how we should live. We MUST be tolerant and excuse our enemies because they are people too! “Everybody is fighting a battle you know nothing about. Be kind. Always”
6777) Some of you guys might not like the story of the last of us part 2 but we have to appreciate the work they put on this game. Honestly I liked how they presented the story. It wasn’t the story that I wanted but that’s the story they wanted to tell and they did a great job on that. Here comes my thoughts on the story: It looks like they wanted to show us that the story of Ellie and Joel isn’t the only one we should care about. What I mean by that is they wanted us to see that there are tons of stories in that post apocalyptic world. It looks like they tried to take away the main focus from Ellie and Joel and that’s where the problem begins. They put way too much focus on Abby’s side of story. I think the reason behind that is they wanted us to accept Abby and her behavior which makes no sense to me. Like, come on! You guys made a whole game dedicated to Joel and Ellie (part 1) and we literally loved them. I don’t want to accept and like Abby. I just want to destroy her! She might be cool and all but at the end of the day SHE KILLED JOEL. Don’t miss understand me. I’m not saying that we should take out all parts we played as Abby. But we played Abby too much. Almost half of the game was dedicated to Abby. They made her one of the main characters but it didn’t worked out for most of us. It should have been a true and successful vengeance story in my opinion. Now let’s talk about some other things. The gameplay was perfectly designed and balanced. The animations were astonishing. Game physics were 10/10. Designs and graphics were the best in history of gaming. Music was amazing. The only downside was the story but for me the last of us part 2 is still a masterpiece. Thank you Naughty Dog for giving us this amazing piece of art.
6778) Great game, We are definitely not prepared for history however it is the best game of this generation.
6779) Amazing and incredible, from the beginning to the end. Game mechanics are the best in its genre, graphics are beyond anything we have seen in the generation, the story has been great, even though I understand there's people who may be pissed off taking into account the risks that ND has taken, but I strongly believe these work great. Everyone must able to play this game!
6780) Don't give this game a bad rating just because of Joel's death. It's just a great game. Good story. Perhaps sometimes it is delayed, but the plot is good. You must play this game. Really. Naughty dog  have done very serious and hard work. My praise for the work done. As for me I absolutely love this game.
6781) The game is undoubtedly awesome! I passed it in one breath and was very impressed. Thank you very much to Naughty Dog Studio and Neil Drakman for another masterpiece. I was very sorry for Joel, at this point I was crying non-stop. The only thing that caused me dissonance was the gameplay for Abby. I understand that the developers wanted to show what she had to go through and that she is not a negative character. She should have empathized, not blamed. Definitely 10/10. I hope that this game will get the deserved title of "Game of the year"!
6782) this is the best game i have ever played. this is the best game i have ever played. this is the best game i have ever played.
6783) This game can be summed up as "the most beautiful person you will ever see... until they start to speak." it is hands down the most beautiful game you will ever play today, but this is a story based game and the story is where this game starts to make you want to gag. The story gives you a feeling of horror in the same way watching documentaries on WW2 Germany does, except imagine that in these documentaries there were massive plot holes and character inconsistencies. both seeing the atrocities of WW2 and playing The Last of Us part II inspires the same feeling of "how could someone do something like this". characters wildly swing between emotions, they do things that you would not imagine them to do, and not in a way that is "oh they are so brave taking these risks" but more, "what has gotten into them". the game tries so hard to be dark and ask intelligent questions of its audience but the writing is clearly not intelligent enough to handle it properly. all in all I rate a 0 out of 10 because no amount of incredible graphics and level design can bring me to ever want to play The Last of Us part II again. I was not allowed to post this unless i gave the game a 10 out of 10 so pretend my rating is a 0 out of 10.
6784) Sensational gameplay, great graphics, incredible gameplay and good story is a strong contender and possible winner of the Game of the Year
6785) Bom, Eu acabei de Fechar o The Last of Us 2, e a Únicas Palavras que posso usar para Descrever sem dar Nenhum Spoiler é que é,O Jogo Mais Emocionante que eu Já Joguei em Toda Minha Vida.,Nesses quase 5 dias jogando direto Fechei a Campanha com umas 35h Aproximadamente e Foram um Carrossel de Sentimentos, Eu Fiquei com Raiva, Triste, Com Ódio, Chorei, Fiquei Ansioso, Indignado, Com Medo, Pensativo...,Assim como em um filme de Terror que te conduz a sentir o medo, a Naughty Dog Conduziu todos esses Sentimentos de uma forma que eu Nunca tinha sentido.,Esse Jogo te faz pensar muito.,Sobre como lidamos com Sentimentos, Sobre Ideologias e o que acreditamos tbm.,Eu Sempre Tive Problemas com Coisas que acho Forçadas. Como por exemplo quando todas as protagonistas viraram femininas só para levantar Bandeira.,Não gosto disso. Quer Fazer um Protagonista Gay, Negro, Mulher, Anão, Não me importa com tanto que não seja Forçado.,Seja Natural.,Tem Todas as Minorias, Lésbicas, Deficiente, Negro, Asiatico.,Mas é tudo tão Humano e Natural.,Esquece um Pouco o Sony x Microsoft, Todos aqui somos Fãs de Vídeo Games, É o Nosso Hobby, Nossa Válvula de Escape.,O que esse Jogo fez é algo para ser Jogado por Todos !!!,Ele Vai mudar coisas daqui pra frente, assim como o The Witcher 3 Mudou as Sidequests, The Last of Us 2 Mudou a Narrativa.,Você vê gente que nem curtia jogos, da Indústria do Cinema/Teatro que Acharam Maravilhoso. E isso é ótimo. Quebra esse Karma de que Vídeo Games são Coisa para Criança.,Assim como o Thanos foi tão bem Feito que você esquece que é CGI, Os Personagens foram tão bem Construídos que você esquece que é um Jogo.,The Last of Us 2 para mim é o jogo que Fechou essa Geração e com Certeza o Melhor jogo que eu Já Joguei na Vida.,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------,Well, I just closed The Last of Us 2, and a single word I can use to describe without any spoiler is what it is,The Most Exciting Game I've Ever Played In My Life.,In those almost 5 days playing straight I closed a campaign with approximately 35 hours and a carousel of feelings, I was angry, sad, comedy, blushed, be anxious, indignant, afraid, thoughtful ...,Just like in a horror movie that causes feeling or fear, a Naughty Dog handles all those feelings in a way that I never felt.,This game makes you think a lot.,About how we deal with Feelings, About ideologies and what we also believe.,I've always had problems with things I think are forced.,For example, when all the protagonists become female only to raise the flag.,I do not like it. Wants to Make a Gay Protagonist, Black, Woman, Dwarf, I don't care how much it is not Forced.,Be Natural.,It has All Minorities, Lesbians, Disabled, Blacks, Asians.,But it's all so human and natural.,Choose a Little or Sony x Microsoft, We are all Video Games, It's Our Hobby, Our Exhaust Valve.,What this game did is something to be played by everyone !!!,It will change things going forward, like The Witcher 3 Changed as Sidequests, The Last of Us 2 Changed the Narrative.,You see people who don't even like games, from the Cinema / Theater Industry of Acharam Maravilhoso. And this is great. Break this Karma that Video Games are a Thing for Children.  Just as Thanos was so well Done that you forget that it is CGI, The Characters were so well Built that you forget that it is a Game.  The Last of Us 2 for me is the game that closed this generation and for sure or the best game I've ever played in Life.
6786) The last of us part 2 is a very complex story. Try to explain it very differently than anything. It is very hard emotionally, it is very realistic. There is a lot of controversy with the story because disappointing things happen for the player, but that is what makes it so good. In almost every story, everything ends with a happy ending, and this game tries to show that things don't always go the way you want. I believe that many have not understood this concept well and are used to happy endings because they did not like the story, it seems quite original to me and different from everything. As for the music of this game, I find it incredible. Graphically it is a next-gen game. It is the game with the best animations I have ever seen. The gameplay is very similar to the first, with a few changes that improve it a lot. The gameplay of the first part I really liked, this is even better. It is not innovative, Naughty Dog does not usually do innovative things, but they can do masterpieces.
6787) SPOILER FREE,Dark, beautiful, horrific, and ahead of it's time. This is a story you must experience for yourself. Simply reading a synopsis does not convey half the nuance and emotion that you get from playing yourself. There is a reason this isn't a book. 10 years from now, people will look back at this game in praise for how the boundaries are pushed in terms of narrative and blurring the lines between player and character. Can't think of another game that made me both wince in horror and melt my heart, also the melee combat is super fun.,10/10.,Thanks, Naughty Dog.
6788) This is the best game I’ve ever played. Don’t Pay attention to the bad critics, they don’t know **** about ****
6789) Great story, gameplay and overall naughty dog's best game!,Ellie is freaking badass!
6790) Beautiful game, the story is very interesting and the graphics are very good
6791) The Last of Us Part II is a game unlike any other. It takes players through a visceral story of hate and the cycle of violence. Your feelings are going to be hurt, you will despise some moments and probably, at some point, even hate the game. But that's the objective.,In order to put you in Ellie's shoes, the game needs to make you feel every single emotion that is going through her head. You need to feel the hate, you need to feel the desolation.,Nearly 25 years have passed since the begging of the Cordyceps infection, the world's changed. People die every day, those who are still alive have to live with the constant threat of the infected. Happiness is a luxury that simply cannot be afforded, at least not for long.,Due to a traumatic event, Ellie sets off on a journey for revenge on those who've wronged her. You're not meant to have fun, you're meant to witness the character's slow descent into an ever-darker abyss of tragedy. You will feel the weight of every single murder, every single call for help and, hopefully, in the end, understand that there are no heroes and villains in this story, there are simply different perspectives. The most important thing to understand is that every action leads to a series of consequences, and no matter how much you try, you can't escape them.
6792) Outstanding! Best narrative experience in video games, sets a new standard for storytelling.
6793) I don't know what to say... I loved the first game, in my opinion, it was great. The story was so well written and deep, it really got into your heart. How to story played out, you could really feel like, you would have made the same decisions as Joel did, especially in the end. After losing his daughter, and the amount of time he had spent with Ellie, he really looked at her like his OWN daughter and he would have done anything to protect her. The gameplay was also nice and the graphics were awesome too.,The game was story-driven, it had amazing characters and an amazing story, and these are the two components which made the game being liked by soooo many people.,When they announced that a second part was coming, I was so excited, I wanted to see the two characters, I really got to love during the first game, appear again and have another great adventure/journey together.,I had no problem with Ellie being the main protagonist, I thought "that's cool, this time Joel will be the one accompanying her and not vice-versa",I also had no problem with Ellie having a relationship with Dina, they look so cute together.,I also had no problem, when they announced Abby, and that we will be playing with her as well.,I was like "okay, that's cool too, I'm sure that she is connected to Ellie or to Joel somehow, and that's why they are introducing her",I prepared myself for the release, I said to myself "I'm gonna stay up and watch the whole game no matter how long it takes",By the time I got to the end, I was shocked... I did not belive it at first.,You are 20 minutes or so into the game and they frekain. kill. Joel, who was the main protagonist in the first game, the one who was loved by the whole gaming community,I don't have a problem with Joel being killed, I think the community already knew this, I mean they were prepared for Joel being killed at somepoint,But. Not. Like. This. He died like a freaking noob who just started surviving in a world which made a lot of people crazy and greedy towards others.,Why would he die like that? He is old, he has been surviving in this world for who knows how long, and he and his brother have just met a group of strangers, and they tell them their NAME?!,Why on Earth would they do that?!,Time passes, and the game forces you to play with Abby, for half of the game and the developers expect the players to feel sorry for Abby, just because his father was killed by Joel, and she got her revenge. She is NOT a likeable character, AT ALL. Putting aside all the gender and sexuality things, she kills the ONE PERSON who we loved so much and they want us to feel her sadness and motivations why she was like that and why she did it.,The developers put Ellie and Joel in the villain role, like they are the bad guys, doing terrible things and just... hurting others.,Don't tell the players they can't play this game with a "closed-mind". Nobody, I repeat, NOBODY is going to like Abby.,And then the Ending... oh god... this could take up a whole another topic.,After Joel's death, Ellie swears vengence, saying she will kill every one of them, so she does with everyone BUT Abby.,After the game forces you to play as Abby and try to kill Ellie, the screen goes black and just random months pass. like... wut...?,And then Ellie sets out to finally get her revenge on Abby, finds her, helps her get to the boats so they can escape, but then challenges her to a fist fight, finally settling the score between the two of them.,Ellie has the upper hand, starts choking Abby underneath the water, then gets a flashback on Joel, and then randomly releases Abby and lets her go...,Then Ellie returns home, hoping that she will find Dina and their child, but finds nothing. Oh and she also loses the last memory of Joel, the guitar (she can't play it, because Abby bit off two of Ellie's fingers), and then just starts walking out the farm...,In a game, where the story and the characters make the game great, you need to have a great story and loveable characters, but the developers failed to deliver,The whole story makes no sense. This is not how we got to know Joel and Ellie, they would never have done such things.,Then the devs come and be like, "We don't understand why players don't like the game", even calling us incels...,Like really? You are making a game, which has an audience, then you decide to put your own political and sexual perspectives on the game, going so far as insulting your own audience.,Suprised people wanting to refund the game?,A game is made to entertain people, not to teach politics and gender/sexual equality. Everyone has their own opinion about the last two things, you have no right to change that and shouldn't try forcing your own on others.,Sorry for the long post!
6794) Completed my first playthrough recently and I’ve gotta say that the emotional turmoil it put me through was unlike any game I have ever played. I am so glad I gave it a chance despite the leaks and the negativity it has accumulated online
6795) Amazing game thanks naughty dog. Wonderfully written some people aren’t going to be happy but haters gonna hate. Been waiting for this since the first one I WAS NOT DISAPPOINTED. A fitting end to a great game. Story 10/10,Writing 10/10,Graphics 10/10,Voice acting mo cap 10/10,Replay ability 10/10,Value for money 10/10,Needs a sequel 0/10,Thanks again naughty dog and on to new game+
6796) Thank you for great experience! There are lot of thoughts about this game, I am really sad for Ellie because it was not her fault...
6797) Awesomee!! I dont need to tell you just play the **** game is crude and fantastic gameplay
6798) great game, moving story for people who can think deeper Also feel very sad for Ellie
6799) Just a pure masterpiece. Be sure to play it all till the end. And may you be not satisfied with the ending it’s  still the best game that leaves you with questions (don’t forget the first one had the same open ending)
6800) One of the most unique games I’ve ever played. Mindblowing story, amazing gameplay and beautiful graphics.
6801) Best game ever,Grapics 10,Story 10,Gameplay 10 Really good game live to see a sequel
6802) The game is a masterpiece, despite what the majority of user reviews made by people who haven’t actually played the game have to say. Story-wise, it’s as powerful as the original if not more-so. In terms of gameplay, it’s a step up from the first in every way. I finished the game with tears in my eyes and excited to start a second playthrough. The user review score is a prime example of the immaturity in the gaming community and means nothing; this game is worthy of the metascore it was given and the sales record it broke. It’s worthy of your time, too. Play it as soon as you can, as it’s without a doubt  the best game of the generation.
6803) Incredible, gut-wrenching, devastating story. Beautiful scenery and graphics, with the horror of the infected and warring factions around every corner.,Stunning and fluid gameplay, with great variation between stealth and combat, depending on the character you're playing as.,A worthy sequel,  I can't wait to play again.
6804) Absolutely amazing game from start to finish. Please don't listen to these silly people. Characters are great, story is great, gameplay is great and looks beautiful. Would recommend. I'd say play part 1 first though or look up a movie version or something. Go have fun!
6805) This is one strongest games ever made, just as the first game closed the PS3 and made us look to the ps4 the game does the same today for the ps5. Don't believe all the day 1 hate.
6806) After finally playing the game, I have now completely changed my opinion and decided it was not only good but completely worth my time. I'll take caution trusting reactionary dudebros in the future.
6807) I can't for the life of me understand how any legitimate reviewer of this game can give it a 0. The game play is very similar to the original (good thing), the graphical elements are beyond compare, and the story is compelling. This game easily sits along side my favorite games of all time.,,Some folks may legitimately not like how events transpire early in the game. But, they are necessary to drive the narrative. This is a post-apocalyptic world. It's not all sunshine and rainbows. There are evil people in the world who are going to do evil things. As one other user put it... "This is not Ellie and Joel's road trip part 2".,,That said, even if you didn't like the story, this game does not deserve a 0 score. Or anything below a 5 in my opinion. There's just so much that is outstanding in this game besides the story.
6808) First lets talk about the negative reviews. Because this is what ruins future games.,As of now, the trophy for completing the game stands at 11.8 (very rare) meaning most "critics" have yet to actually complete the game. And some don¨t even know what the game is actually about.,Over at IMDB a user wrote "it was worse than the previous 3 games"....,Others were mad you dont get to choose your ending like the first..... (but there was no chose there either. Its not Mass Effect) Now think about that. ..,The game is gorgeous.,Has great gameplay.,And lots of playtime.,Resident Evil 3 remake has a 6.4 score. Thats for a game that added nothing new to the original and with an average playtime of 2-3 hours.,,ND: Thanks for the game. Its wonderful. And I¨m sure there are plenty of people busy actually playing the game rather than making fake reviews. So we look forward to the next project.,,I have no idea what the goal is for these people, but here we are.
6809) This game is wonderful, I never got involved with a game like that.  This game will break your heart and destroy your expectations, but this is the art in essence.
6810) Excellent game, it's a really inmersive game, good music, good history. Perfect.
6811) Even though Joel's death happened in the game and the ending was a little disappointing, but understandable, because Ellie felt guilty, the game itself is incredible. Graphics, music, sound effects ... I particularly liked the story, even though it has some details that leave something to be desired. I think the people who were most disappointed were those who waited 7 years for a continuation of Joel's story, but I think Naughy Dog made it clear from the beginning that the game would be more focused on the story of Ellie and the new character Abby. I finished the game yesterday and in all the days that I played, there was not a single time that I did not cry .... each scene made with many details and everything is beautiful! ❤️
6812) You should take some time to think about story after finihing game cause story in this game is very deep. It took me 3 days to understand it.,Best game which i played last 3 years maybe more than 3....
6813) There are only 3 pieces of entertainment that left me absolutely sobbing at the end and they are Beethoven's 9th, Bojack Horseman, and The Last of Us Part 2. This game was one of the most intense, gut-wrenching, awe-inspiring experiences I have played through in my entire life. The story lives up to the masterwork of the first game. Although it isn't nearly as contained as the first, NaughtyDog weaves every gear together seamlessly to tell a story that I interpreted as Ellie fighting to find the strength to forgive. The stealth-action gameplay is a hefty improvement from the first one, as Ellie is more nimble and agile then Joel leading to quicker and smoother combat. The graphics are incredible. No need to say much on that end, everybody can see this. I love this game. I don't know what else I could say. This is a must-play.
6814) This game is a roller coaster, fitting of its post-apocalyptic setting. It does not pander to those with weak stomachs or those with an appetite for fairytale endings - TLoU2 is brutal, riveting, and grim. I truly think that it is a masterful work of artistic design, crystalizing an imaginative, unrelenting, and gritty world. Meanwhile, its storytelling is equally thought-provoking and powerful.,,This game purposefully makes it hard to "look for the light in the darkness", which I'm not sure makes me feel love or disappointment in the end... but that is the point, which I deeply appreciate as part of its design.,,I really hate to see so many people bashing this game (many of whom did so before even having time to finish the game). As a huge fan of the TLoU, I was not disappointed. This was a fantastic sequel, which I had a hard time putting down.
6815) Just finished and wow. What a story. It really emphasizes the complexity of the human condition. In real life very few people, if anyone, are all good or all bad. We all can be angels of devils, and you can generally never know the reasons behind most people’s actions, and this game truly highlights that fact. Its also a study on the pitfalls of revenge. Its just masterfully done. One of the best video game stories I have ever seen.
6816) Anyone who has genuinely played this from start to finish and doesn’t consider it a masterpiece has my deepest sympathy.,As someone who saw the leaks, I went into this with sad scepticism, which turned into outright anger, I was adamant that there was no possible way I could feel good about the story by the end of it.,The range of emotions I felt playing this game has me in awe, I sat watching the credits and accompanying score in their entirety with tears in my eyes.,Imagine being told how a magic trick is done, watching it being performed anyway and afterwards believing it was real magic.,That’s what this is.,People giving this low scores are either not playing it at all and just jumping on a hatewagon, or too emotionally immature to see it for what it is, a masterclass in storytelling and a watershed moment in gaming history.
6817) This game deserves at least 7/10.,The plot isn't bad at all. However, It could be better, if we would have a choice in the end.....
6818) The Last of Us 2 is perfect. It brought me to my knees time and time again with it’s unapologetic loyalty to the VERY poignant and important themes it took on. I loved everything about it, start to finish, even if it hurt. The dedication to character development and the way it leads your heart through the game....let’s just say I couldn’t believe how I felt and who I was rooting for at the end. Literally 10/10. Might have even enjoyed it more than the first one, and the first one is one of my favorite games of all time. I think anyone who isn’t an incel & who can deal with things being raw, brutal, realistic, bold and beautiful as hell, is going to love every second of this game, even when it breaks your heart. The Last of Us 2 is a masterpiece. End of story.
6819) This game was the best game I've ever experienced!,People are just angry because Joel is dead, well I was too! But of you play the game till the end you're gonna love it
6820) The gameplay is similar to the first one with a few tweaks for the better. The story is actually really good, the only problem with it is that it was spoiled so people knew the big spoiler without the context for it. I love this game. It is better than the first one.
6821) An excellent achievement from a technical and narrative point of view. It could have used fewer jump scares, but other than that it's an excellent game. Do not listen to review bombers, homophobes, and racists.
6822) It's an amazing game.. ppl who are bashing the game are ppl who never played it or the ones who quit after the death of Joel. For the sake of god complete the game and then post your bs  reviews
6823) I hate this game. Terrible story and characters. The Last of Us 1 was way better.
6824) after hearing all negative thoughts on the internet I start playing the game to see what all of this hates come from then and after 32 hours finished the game I can say its best game of generation its better than I thought the story the character all fantastic the brutality of the story is fascinating the level design and music and game play is extraordinary and i enjoyed every penny I payed for the game.,,it is well done game with fascinating  story of humans for different angle of view its not video game for people who just wants the main character kill everyone in his way to the end its game for grown up people who wants enjoy a outstanding story and game play and music not just some killing machine with no sympathy with Regret and no result of the actions.
6825) This game was a full rollercoaster of emotions. Gonna play this game now on NG+ and can't wait to find more little details.,Absolutely loved this game.
6826) I myself enjoyed the game it looks amazing the voice actors are great and I liked the story. There were sad,angering,funny moments but I think they balanced out. The ending was not what I was expecting but thats a good thing I like story's you can't completely figure out makes it more fun. Ive read so many reviews  bashing this game and wonder if people even played the game. One stated played for 15 minutes and didn't like it but was stating things that happen many hours into the game in 15 minutes not possible. For people reading these to see if this is a good game to try id say give it a try and make your own opinions on the game. Like I put I enjoyed it but not everyone will.
6827) People are upset over two things. The character Ellie being gay, something hinted at in the last one amd DLC, and Joel's death. People became attached to Joel's character last game and to see him brutally murdered made alot of people deal with a death they weren't expecting to deal with. Its a video game character but to alot of people who became attached, its like a real death and thats whats upsetting people. There outrage is a reflection of what they feel as loss. Only truly great games can accomplish this level of feeling.
6828) one of the best in this generation. You can dump every score wrote on launch date, they,obviously didn't play the game.
6829) This game is absolutely amazing, it's one of the best games I ever played. The game design, combat system and the story are up there. Definitely don't deserve the hate it's getting right now
6830) Excellent, although it does not dethrone the first. A balanced and very enjoyable game.
6831) From a fan of TLOU that is NOT PAID for my opinion or review, the game is a masterpiece that completely lives up to the original! I hope people look past the trolls unfairly giving this game low scores and play for themselves. It makes me sick to see all these people giving this game 0/10 or 1/10 and so on. Even if you don't like the story (which is brilliant so i am very confused) it does not deserve that. "The Last of Us Part 2 is an unforgettable story about the nature of justice, the cycle of violence, and the radical empathy required to end it." That is the absolute perfect way to describe this game. is not just a copy or rehash of the original and i'm GLAD! Is that what people expected? Really? It did something completely different while still keeping the things that made the first game so great. Seems to me people can not seem to get over the major loss we experience here and are failing to see this story for what it is and is meant to be. Its absolutely beautiful. 10/10! PLEASE PLAY IT FOR YOURSELF AND FORM YOUR OWN OPINION BEFORE JUMPING ON THE BANDWAGON TO CALL IT TRASH! THINK FOR YOURSELVES! AND WAIT UNTIL THE END BEFORE YOU GIVE YOUR OPINION!
6832) Well well well.. if you don't like this story, then probably you have a bad taste.
6833) If you voted 0 to 5, didn't play the game because of the user score, or are disappointed with it, PLEASE read, i beg you.,,Let's just briefely talk about the gameplay, then we'll skip to the story:,the combat is quite simple yet fun, with impeccable animations and interactions that make it very satisfying. The pacing is pretty much perfect, alternating combat, to exploration, to cutscenes, to a bit of platforming and puzzles; during all these sections the characters are constantly discussing (even the "bad guys"), and they are so well written that they feel like they're real people. Nothing to say about the technical aspects, best in class, crazy attention to detail and animations, i'd say they're unmatched (i didn't like the jumping animations and some of the dodges tho).,,I strongly belive that part 2 is far superior in every aspect, story and narration included, when compared to part 1. I get that yall are upset that they killed Joel, i was too, but i didn't immediately discarded the story as garbage because he died and came here to leave a 0 out of 10 review driven by rage, i trusted Neil and the team, if they made me care for the characters in the first part, they could do it again with other characters, even with the "villain", if Joel dies it's not the end of the world.,,I'm seeing people say that they are disappointed not because he died, but because he died in a stupid way, letting his guard down, something that he would never do. Now, he did let his guard down in the first game too when meeting new people, even if he had no reason to trust them (like Harry and Sam), but in this case he really had no choice to follow "the bad guys" inside the house, they were running away from a horde and there was a snowstorm outside. Also, they didn't have any reason not to trust them either, they had just saved Abby, so that was no reason for her to hurt them.,I've seen people argue that Joel knew that the fireflies were looking for him so he shouldn't have told them his name, but thats just false, Joel knew that the fireflies were disbanded an that's it.,,The second big complaint is the ending: i know that what i'm about to say sounds pretentious, but please, PLEASE, hear me out with an open mind, you... probably did not understand the ending; the message is not "revenge bad", when you oversimplify this much, anything sounds stupid, even the gratest movie or book.  When Abby spares Ellie and Dina in the theater, Ellie stops wanting revenge because she realizes that in order to get it she was gonna lose what she had left (Jesse killed, Tommy and Dina Wounded), at this poin she still kinda wants to kill Abby, but she realizes that it's probably not worth it. So her and Dina go to live peacefully in a farm, which was kind of a dream of theirs. But Ellie is still tormented and can't sleep, at this point she already doesn't want revenge anymore, what pushes her to go and try to kill Abby once again is her desire to "live again", to free herself from this burden, it's not a matter of making Abby suffer anymore, it's a matter of ending her own suffering.,When she finally gets to Abby in Santa Barbara, she sees herself and Joel reflected in Lev and Abby, she hesitates for a moment but then she decides to fight, when she is about to kill her, she sees Joel, not the Joel covered in blood that she has been seeing all this time, but a peaceful Joel, sitting on the porch playing the guitar: this means that even tho she lost everything, in that moment she got her humaneness back, which means that she can now go back to living, she can move on, and she lets Abby join "her own Ellie", Lev, and lets them get away.,,I hope i did a good job at explaining what i think, as english is not my first lenguage, anyway my words aren't enough to describe all the emotions, so i implore you, play the game again (or get it if you didn't want to because of all the negative user reviews), but this time let it grow on you, try not to flag it as garbage from the start, let the emotions flow and let the events hit you as they should, do NOT be blinded by rage. If you watch a horror movie with the intention of not being scared,  you are not gonna get scared, if you play TLOU2 with the intention of not feeling anything, you are not gonna feel anything.,,One last thing, for the first hour or so that i played as Abby, i hated it too. Just look at her like you used to look at Joel, as they are one and the same.,,Edit: after not even 10 seconds "0 people out of 2 found this review helpful", this is just hilarious, 2 people voted as not helpful and didn't even read it, guided by rage. Imagine asking a for a story to make sense (which btw it already does) while acting irrationally, great job everyone.
6834) veeeeery awesome game! druckman genius,Ellie-soska,Abby-chicken|true boy,Joel- ture boy,tommy- ture boy
6835) The Last of Us 2 is the best game I have played. After the First game it was logical that Joel's journey can't continue in a good way. This game is the bravest act ever done from a publisher like Naugty dog in this case. Many players didn't like the terrifying and dark way the story was told, but that is exactly what Naughty dog wanted to do. This game is the most emotional thing I have ever experienced. Additional the gameplay, graphics and the music were extraordinary.
6836) This game is a LITERAL masterpiece. The graphics, game play, audio and tech is second to none. There is not a single game made that can even come close. To sit here and give it bad ratings for a plot twist is asinine. You’re crapping on all the hard work the DEVs put into this. While I have many questions left unanswered I think this game is a true masterpiece. This is the last of us, it’s a dangerous world where anything can happen. Like Joel says “ I know you wish things were different, I wish things were different. But they aint”. This game left me feeling an Existential emptiness, that’s just how gripping and involved I was. It immerses you and forces you to feel what the characters are feeling. I don’t think any other game can grab you quite like this one.
6837) It is Zero 000000000000000000000 but they not allowing me.,,I wrote my honest review but the website is not allowing me to score 9 or less.,,I will try 10. This is just a trial.
6838) I found the game impressive and with a very good ending they do not deserve that score, for me it is the best ps4 game
6839) I unterstand why people are pissed. They don‘t like how the game killed off Joel and say that the story doesn‘t make sense. In my opinion it does. Of course, the fact that the doctor, Joel killed at the end of TLOU 1, hat a daughter that would hunt down her dads killer seems kinda random. In my opinion the story still makes sense. In the world of the Last of Us, people don’t die like heroes they just get shot or whatever and that’s it. The enemies you kill are just getting shot or stabbed and die without much drama and so do our protagonists. Joel, who forgot how to trust while living in his peaceful little town Jackson, Jesse surprisingly getting shot in the face by Abby and so on.,Also, Ellie is not better than Abby. They both kill with no regrets, the only reason you hate Abby and love Ellie is, that you know her from the first game.,At first I hated Abby as well but playing her backstory made me like her more and more.,The only thing that really pissed me off is the ending.,From the point on, where Ellie and Dina live on the farm, with Jessie’s Baby etc. the game felt kinda weird. Ellie looked weird, Abby looked like a totally different person, the whole thing just felt like a different game in the last few ours.,The Gameplay is not the best but actually improved a lot and is way more extensive and better to control then in the first game.,All in all I think that, even though the fame gets way too much hate, its a masterpiece and next to Part 1, one of naughty dogs best games.
6840) A good game but not perfect.,,10/10 reviews are irrational but so are 0/10 and 1/10s,,Grow up people, review a product based on what its worth.,,The story might not be everyones cup of tea but it is what it is lets respect the creators and their vision.,If we dont look at the story stricktly when we can all agree that audiovisually the game is the best that is yet to offer. Also it gives value for the money as it is long and gameplay has also been fine tuned.
6841) Awesome game.,,- Great gameplay (top in stealth / survival / part-horor) genre. Very similar to the first one, but with more types of enemies (you will hate some of them. In a good way), slightly improved AI and better difficulty balance of the encounters.,,- Great technical presentation. Especially mo-cap is so good you can see slightest emotions and see what the character think and feel even when they are silent.,,- Story is great. It does some unexpected (if you avoid spoilers) things we dont usually see in the stories. And makes sure you dont see the story as a simple black and white strunggle between good nice guy vs bad ugly guy that needs to be killed to make the world a better place. It will make you question what you are doing and sometimes can create confused feelings ("Should I feel bad about this if I felt ok with it few hours ago?" "Was it ok to kill that person?"). For me this is something I really appreciate because it is rare and few writers dare to try this. (it is so much easier to say "it is ok to kill these people, because they are red on minimap." And TLoU tries to avoid this approach as much as possible),,-Solid lenght - Took me 30hours to finish. With high roduciton values all the time.
6842) Its a great game of this generation develop by Naughty Dog. Story is very very emotional and good I dont know people are hating the story dont listen those stupid haters go and but this masterpiece. Gameplay is 10/10 everything is 10/10
6843) Insanely beautiful and interesting game. An excellent story is told. Perhaps many do not understand what the game developers were trying to convey to the players. Great gameplay, great music and a good storyline. Top-level graphics
6844) The detail and graphics on this game is crazy good. The game makes you feel like you’re really there. The plot is great as well, not something I expected but glad to have played it. The game overall is amazing and would recommend playing.
6845) I really don’t Know why everyone complaining, everyone want a happy ending but overall this game was F***king AMAZING! Where I wish that I didn’t just end. The storyline, the actors, the detail for the game was simply beautiful and amazing. @naughtydog y’all did amazing job on this!
6846) honestly best game I've ever played! great story and emotional roller coaster. only thing I'd rather see is ellie to talk to Abby about why and understand her side a little at the end because ellie still didn't understand why abby did what she did. that's the point is to feel for both sides and that's what people aren't understanding it makes you feel for abby and understand why she did it. and by the end ellie turned out to be the better person. it sucks joel died but he probably deserved it. we all loved joel but the well placed and not confusing flashbacks made you miss him more and for abby makes you feel for her side too. I found myself rooting on ellie to kill abby even wile I played as abby but you slowly get to understand she's just a human too and a  good character. By the end of the game I was yelling at my screen at ellie to not kill her that ellies better than that because we know abby been through some **** too. abby shared a lot of similarities to joel and thats what made it harder for me to want to kill her at the end. I do wish we spent more time with joel and less time with abby but I guess that's what the first games for
6847) I just loved the game, loved the way they told the story, loved the characters, I ended up having sympathy for Manny, Owen, Mel, Nora, Yara, Mel and even Abby who I thought I was going to hate to dead, I truly believe that this game is a masterpiece, even though I don’t agree with all the decisions that the writers had. I also loved the new characters like Dina and Jesse, I thought they were going to be just there, but they are truly important on the story, I could be keep writing why I loved this game so much, but I’m just gonna leave in how cool the ending was, seeing how Ellie ends up **** up because of her revenge, she end up losing her family, and she is not able to play the guitar, which was her way of remembering Joel. 10 out of 10
6848) The game is great but I'll give it a zero because I want to help to piss people off who hate conservatives.
6849) Great game, with new techniques and different style of gaming, with a good story of revenge.
6850) A fantastic game! Don't listen to all the hate. The story is different, but equally great.
6851) A diferente story but imersive expirience and amazing Gameplay.,The game os very good
6852) I enjoyed the game a lot! I enjoyed the story that really gets me. I don't like Abby, but at the same time I can't not understand what she experienced in her life. Abby and Ellie even if most "gamer" can't see it, are really similar, they both seek revenge and for doing it they lose everything they care about. Abby is not the only happy character in the end cause she lost everyone that she cares about (yeah she got Lev but Ellie got Dina too). I'm sorry for Joel and for the way he was killed but I saw his death miles away, a character that dies doesn't mean that that the game is automatically bad.,Also yeah the game is brutal, it's brutal to show you that violence is repulsive and on the other si de there are people even if they are your enemies.,I hate the sex scene, that was bad.
6853) Incredible game. Definitely lives up as a worthy sequel to the first game. Improves the gameplay graphics and deepens the world of the last of us. The story stands out among other games despite many people disliking it, I personally loved it and found it a very fitting and fulfilling continuation of the first game
6854) Best game I've ever played.,You're honestly deluded if you think this is a bad game. Giving it a 1? Pathetic.,It was a rollercoaster and it was amazing. Kept me guessing the whole time and I didn't know at what point the game was going to end.
6855) It's a fantastic game with a fantastic gameplay and a very good story in my opinion!,Its not like the first game and its not about love its more about hate and the game is also very dark and exciting!
6856) For me its a huge game. Loved it from first to last. I cant understand why people hated joel’s death. His death had a purpose and ellie was a strong enough character to supply joel’s protagonism. Abby’s gameplay is fun to plan and darker than ellie’s. The story evolved in a way that people didnt love but i did. Wonderful game, wonderful music and wonderful storytelling. This puts on the table the reality of the humanity. There is no good or evil.
6857) For me, its amazing, the title is reflexibe and piece of art, i love The Last of us part II
6858) It's just amazing. The gameplay it's kind like the first one, but with some new mechanics that improved so much in the stealth and shooting in the game. Graphics are impeccable, soundtrack is beautiful. And the history and characters, they're amazing. This game made me feel something different about the LGBTQ community, It's like I have so much more empathy for them now, as if the game had a message there, just waiting for me to receive it, i loved the characters, Ellie and Abby (protagonists) are both really amazing and well developed. I've create a special affection for Abby, she's incredible. This game made me think so much about some stuff, i'm giving it a 10 because of the almost perfect game and the incredible reflection it gave me. Thanks for the amazing game, Naughty Dog!
6859) This game was so intense, thrilling and a rollercoaster of emotions. The graphics, mechanics and the warfare was amazing. I can say 10/10 best game of 2020 so far. Nice job Naughty Dog, sorry for all the crybabies rating the game so bad.,What I can grab from the story is revenge after revenge, a never ending cycle, Joels actions shaped the entire West Coast, making people split. What's so hard to understand?,We see communites and people trying to rebuild the world, everyone cries about the story not being Apocalyptic, but if the game was only zombies they'd cry about that too.,Most of these bad ratings are people who bandwagonned on the hate train or just hate the fact that ellie is gay and Abby is more masculine and fit than them.,The ratings will only go up from here.
6860) I don't f*cking care about y'all kids rating the game as bad as possible just to gain attention.,This game is a masterpiece, no one is gonna change my mind.,The fact Joel died just show that even if you're a principal character you're not going to be saved by a magic shield DUH. This game deserve better and will get better, rating is just gonna goes up with time.,,The morale of the story is really mature and great, but y'all just stop at "JoEL DeSeRVeD BeTtErR" dude, grow up for a moment and remember how many people he's tortured, killed by cold blood. No one is good or bad anymore in this universe, and that's the whole point of this act.
6861) The game is actually amazing, the gameplay is too cool to believe, the line is very unexpected. The game is very tolerant and shows us that every person is a person.
6862) 10/10 Masterpiece. As far as Story is concerned its the best game of all time, hoping for a DLC covering if Elli gets back to Dina and if Dina can forgive her.
6863) This is Naughty Dog's masterpiece. The story is dark and emotional, something i've never experienced  like this in a game so far. The facial animaties are insane! Graphics are amazing, world building is great!,,I loved it (I actually played and completed the game instead of al the 0-reviewers out here) and its my favourite game this year, maybe even this generation.
6864) A heart wrenching 10/10!! Forget your head cannon! Forget your expectations. This game pushes boundaries and tells a revenge tale we have never seen done this way before. There are two sides to every story. We experienced Joel's in part one and we understand and relate to this character, but have we forgotten that actions have consequences? Bad things happen to good people. This game makes you question what is moral and what is immoral, and it is done in such a brilliant way. Revenge is always bitter, always cold.. since when is it satisfying? The pain that sets you on a journey of bloody revenge, still remains even after the smoke clears. What a brilliant game!
6865) The Last of Us Part II is a masterpiece. So Where to start?. The gameplay is phenomenal with some of the best stealth gameplay I’ve ever seen. The option to craft silencers as well as going prone actually make a huge difference. The animations set the bar for the gaming industry. Gustavo Santaolella has composed the soundtrack so well, it really makes the game experience so damn good. The sound design is amazing and playing with headphones increases the tension of each encounter, I’d highly recommend it. The graphics are some of,best I’ve ever seen, it truly looks next gen. Now last but not least, the story. The story will definitely polarize players. It has some narrative choices that you may not like but as the story continues, these narrative choices make sense and ultimately work with the game’s theme of hate and the cycle of violence and how it challenges your notion of hero vs villain. In this game there are no heroes or villains, there are just people. The new characters are amazing. I’ll say that the supporting characters in Part II are much better than in the first game. But I’d say the best new character is Abby. The way her plot line was handled could have been executed a bit better. They could have made you play as her first and show her motives before a major event happened. Dina and Ellie’s relationship was amazing and I’d say Joel and Ellie were better but this was still an awesome relationship. The ending will divide everyone but I personally believe it shows redemption in an awesome way. Overall the game does have some flaws such as the way Abby’s plotline was handled but ultimately the game is a masterpiece and I would rate it as one of the best games of this generation. I still can’t decide between it or Red Dead Redemption 2. Thank you to Naughty Dog for blowing me away once again. I would recommend this game, despite all the review bombing and flaws a play through is most definitely worth it.
6866) This game is incredible. Might be my favourite game of all time. The characters feel so real and I was more emotionally invested and unsure of how it would end than anything since The Last Jedi.
6867) Hooo boy, here we go.,,So this game is fantastic. I would recommend it to anyone who (1) loves great story telling (2) loves great graphics and (3) can deal with zombies and jump scares.,,I don't recommend this game to people who feel emasculated by the fact that the main character in this story is a lesbian—it is a shame that the rage of these people has tanked the user score of this game.
6868) Amazing story, incredibly realistic gameplay and immersive atmosphere. If you're expecting a story and a game to make you feel good and "like a hero", this is not for you, because just like in real life, unexpected things happen in this game's story and narrative, and it seems like everyone giving negative score's to this master piece, live in a fairy tale and can't handle not having what they desire.,If you want to have a truly strong experience, witness an amazing story and play the best game of this generation so far, THIS IS IT!
6869) It's a gritty revenge story and it does a lot of the things you expect from a revenge story, but it does this better than any game I've ever played and takes a lot of risks which 100% pay off. The tone and visual style are perfect, the gameplay is gripping and very deep. The narritive of the game sucked me in completely, I was totally invested. And the game took that and turned it on its head in a way that only a video game could.,On a technical level the game is phenominal. The sound design is the best in any game I've played. It is breathtakingly beautiful at points and oppresively bleak at others and uses this combined with the sound design for excellent narritive effect. The gameplay is awesome too: combat feel excellent, exploring is exciting, crafting and survival mechanics are satisfying but with a level of tension to them, because the everpresent scarcity in your resources, and theres even a few enjoyable puzzles in it.,The emotional impact the story had on me was really surprising as I don't usually feel affected by games, films etc. I'm a huge fan of the first game and love the characters but throughout the 25 hours I played it for, I felt genuine excitement, joy, fear and even shed actual tears. This is because the characters are fantastically well rounded and empathetic, even as they make bad decisions I understood their motivations and their complex and flawed personalities. In addition to that the game has probably the best representation of women, minorities and queer people in any big budget game that I know of and I respect Naughty Dog so much for doing that.
6870) Finished the game yesterday.,Currently replaying it on Survivor+.,,This is one of the best games I have played in my entire life.,The range of emotions... I went from crying like a baby, to feeling rage, guilt.,It is a roller coaster.,,Please do not be fooled by the enraged reviews out there.
6871) So I'm seeing a lot of people who haven't even played the game have a lot to say about it. Most of what they are saying in detail about the game are either coming from their personal feelings, or skillups review.,In my opinion this game lives up to part one, and I can say that because well, I have played both games. The story is still amazing and I actually like this more. Everything makes sense and everything is justified. The game mechanics are very good, gameplay is amazing and intense.,Now to those who are basing everything off of, well, nothing really, I have one ask. Play it through, or at least watch someone do it. The things you THINK you know, you don't really know. The people who you claim to know in this game, you don't. This game goes in far deeper than any leak you have seen. Please stop judging 30hrs worth of a game on 3hrs that you know nothing about.
6872) I almost finished the game and I love it. It is a great sequel for the first part. Story and gameplay are one of the best I have ever seen. I would say, this game is a must play for everyone.
6873) Great game, partly an interactive movie. Great storytelling and unique characters.
6874) In 2014 I purchased a Playstation purely to play The Last Of Us and it was one of the most memorable, enjoyable and emotional experiences of my life. Which is a bold statement to make about playing a video-game.,,I have been counting down the years, months and days to play TLOU II and have rewatched every trailer a dozen times. I would have been disappointed with anything less than a 10/10 game.,,Naughty Dog has not let us down.,,TLOU 2 is far and away the most developed and intricate game I know aware of. The character development and storyline is on par with the best of cinema and the graphics are about as photo-real as todays technology can handle. The story, emotion, combat mechanics, world-building, physics, horror, characters/VO, graphics, music and sound all working flawlessly and in harmony makes the Last Of Us II feel like a next generation of video gaming. I felt like a character in a well-crafted movie.,,This game is what publishers will strive to be on par with for the next several years. Well done Naughty Dog. The developers and everyone involved should be incredibly proud of what they have created.,,Unfortunately people are narrow minded and have decided they don't like a game with homosexual characters, or the death of a beloved character, and are acting out like overgrown children to voice their hatred. Don't listen to them. They are the worst of us. They are scared of the importance of what you have achieved.,,Much like the first chapter of TLOU, part 2 will be remembered as a masterpiece.
6875) Wow, it will be hard to find some another master piece like that, it's a great in so many levels. I never think that they could do a better Game than the first, but they really did it.
6876) Great game. Beautiful graphics. Characters are well written and likeable even Abby who is theoretically a villain has a great story that explains her actions well enough so we can start wondering if Ellie and Joel are really the "good guys".
6877) Mechanics are great. Story line was a bold move.,If you dont like Abby, the game sucks. If you like her, you will enjoy it.
6878) I dont understand all this hate for the game at Last someone has to die in this cruel world if you can't handle that you can go play forthnite.,Graphics 10/10,Sound 10/10,Gameplay 10/10,Story 10/10,Hands down accept it is the Goty and one of the finest this generation
6879) Everything in this game is epic for me. Story, world, gameplay, visuals - masterpiece.
6880) Stunning game, complex characters and a narrative which kept me at the edge of my seat all through. Masterpiece!
6881) The Last of Us II is a very controversial game to say the least from Joel’s death to how it went down, to playing as his killer, the LGBTQ stuff but honestly the game is a very good and enjoyable game there are some plot details I would have done different but they are easily overlooked in my opinion. The gameplay was smooth and pleasing, the graphics were beautiful, the music phenomenal, the voice acting and animations were top notch. Don’t let the band wagon hating trend drown you experience this work of art yourself.
6882) First of all, my own thoughts.,The game is one of a kind, comparing to everything else out there. The gameplay mechanics are amazing, a step up from the first part in all ways. I like how they kept the core gameplay elements of the first part and then added more elements like new combat mechanics and also some new platforming elements, similar to what we saw in UC4. The combat is brutal which makes it realistic. Some kills feel satisfactory some make you sorry, especially when it comes to killing dogs in this game. This sort of feeling that makes you question your own humanity is a huge part of what makes this game great. There are no good or bad characters, there are people who make decisions based on their own need to survive in this brutal and unforgiving world ND has created for us. The whole LGBT aspect in the game didn't feel pushed at all. If that is what ruined the game for you than i feel sorry for you.,As a survival horror game it truly delivered. Resources are scarce on higher difficulties, both human and infected enemies are scary as hell, especially in the darker enviroments.,Overall the story was amazing. Sad, but amazing at the same time. It gave you a bitter feeling, but also a tiny bit of hope. Because that was what ND intended.,I highly recommend you to play the game fully yourself and not judge it from streams or spoiler reviews. This game has to be played by yourself to enjoy and fully undesrtand it. 10/10 would replay agian and again.
6883) Perfect ! People just need to accept the death of Joel and the fact that Abby had her reason..
6884) Good game really good love it awesomeness awesome game awesome awesome game highly recommended for me I love it
6885) i love the game the graphic the story is perfect
6886) Let's not overly stretch this review. The last of us part II is a MASTERPIECE. Not a rare but a UNIQUE gem in the gaming industry.,VISUALS/GRAPHICS: 9.8/10,The visuals, and the overall technical realisation of the game is nearly perfect, except for the fire visuals and effects that are clearly limited by this console's generation's problems. There are some little glitches all over the game but they are almost meaningless.,GAMEPLAY/ANIMATIONS: 9.8/10,The gameplay is renewed and restyled but clearly inspired by the first chapter's fundamentals. It betters every single aspect of it and adds new mechanics that keep the game's overall style. The playable maps are enormous and almost completely explorable, filled with curiosities, touching and heartbreaking side stories and collectibles so detailed only Naughty Dog could bless us with. The combat sequences are extremely satisfying, flexible and realistic, as you can reestablish a stealthy profile by running into the grass and keeping a prone position. The A.I., especially the humans enemies' sets new standards for the whole industry, enemies can flank you, easily overwhelm you. They all have names and they can get angrier if you kill their friends or their dogs, the new type of enemies, extremely sensible to every noise and smell. Killing enemies in The last of us part II is not an easy decision. Enemies will scream painfully or angrily, dogs will mourn their owners. The infected enemies are of course less intelligent than humans but overall more dangerous and renewed. Runners are now more aggressive and overwhelming, stalkers are terrifying and extremely deadly when it comes to a close combat with them. Clickers can easily spot any noise you produce and quickly kill your character. The new shamblers are extremely dangerous as they are die hard, violent monsters that are able to eject burning spores that can sometimes trap you in a corner, hopeless. The bloaters are way more difficult and violent in this game and will cause you a lot of problems. The new Rat King is surely the most challenging boss fight of the whole series. Furthermore the two characters have different weapons and abilities that can be used and improved. I noticed the falling animation was a little less taken care of.,STORY MODE AND PLOT: 9.5/10,The story mode is devastating, moving and grounded. The plot twists are incredibly well played and empowered by the incredible acting of the characters' mo-cap actors. Joel's death is the consequence of his actions. Because nobody is a 'good guy' in the universe of The last of us, as Tess reminded Joel in the first game before her death,-We're sh*tty people Joel-.  Abby had the complicated burden of justifying her terrible actions throughout the game and she partially did. Naughty Dog make us live her human relationship with the characters we previously saw involved in a terrible action of revenge. But we never forget our true reasons and Ellie, the actual protagonist of the game is focused on her goal. She eventually understands that killing Abby won't bring back Joel and in a touching final scene she lets her enemy go, with the boy she previously saved. Abby lost everything she loved because of her lust for revenge and Ellie proves to be a better human being than her. She then realizes how her revenge obsession brought away the good things she had left, Dina and her son. JUST LIKE Abby.,SOUNDTRACK: 9.5/10,The soundtrack is easily on an upper level and Gustavo Santaolalla demonstrates his talent with tracks that can make your emotions already simulated by the cutscenes even more intense, even though I feel like the first game's track are slightly more inspired.,IMPERFECTIONS SUMMARIZED:,Nothing is perfect, and The last of us makes no exception. Some parts of the plot seem to be stretching the game a little bit, for example the still beautiful but slightly unnecessary gameplay sequence during the war between the WLF militia and the Seraphites cult. Some animations are still a bit rough, like the falling animation that can be revisited and there are some little graphic glitches, some textures disappearing when you're looking at them in certain spots, the fire effects and visuals seem a bit 'old', though this little problems don't ruin the experience. As I said, nothing is perfect, neither is The last of us part II, but let me state it goes pretty damn close to perfection.,A must have, generation defining game. Incredible. 10/10
6887) I loved the first game, and I liked this second, the story isn't as the first, but it's okey, it deserved a better ending but with this ending I hope that there's no third part :)
6888) Brilliant game! Outstanding graphics, wonderful sound and a story with sneaky twists. I'm going to play the game a second time now and try to achieve the platinum Trophy!
6889) What a nice and beatiful story but also a raw one, i love how they are able of create such an environment,and make use feel that what we are watching is not just a game, but also a rewiev of the human been, we can learn few thing by playing it, and also reethink a few other, it also has a few downgrades but the positive parts shine more than those bad momen, highly recombendable, a must if you like this kind of games
6890) This game is unbelievable. I love the story, it contains a lot of drama. The gameplay is amazing. Naughty dog thinks every detail. And they made this awesome game.
6891) Beautiful game and an excellent sequel to Tlou2 , however it goes without saying that this game doesn’t surpass the first one
6892) Just perfect! I love the game play, the different backgrounds, the story and the characters. I felt a lot of emotions and sometimes fear. The part when you climb and go upstairs in different apartments with big holes, was so fun!
6893) The game is good. The story is sad, but the gameplay is awesome. I recommend it, hope there is PART 3
6894) Sincerely, The game teaches a lot, since the acceptance to the understanding, demonstrates what we as humanity and what we can become. Naughty Dogs, He returned to be history!
6895) I honestly really enjoyed the game. I’m excited for my second play through on survivor. I don’t think I have to explain myself. I understand that it’s not a story everyone enjoyed so I’m just gonna leave my score and be out.
6896) People who critical this game is very stupid.Its amazing sequel and revolution in games world.I think Naughty Dogs didn’t deserve that kind of hatred.
6897) Good game! This is the best I've played, thanks Naughty Dog! Haters, burn in hell.
6898) After playing through the game for 25 hours it was clear that this was a massive upgrade to its already incredible prequel. From a technical aspect there truly isn’t a game that can match this - possibly the closest is RDR2 - and the physics of the gameplay puzzle is phenomenal. The only downsides were that I was focused on the plot so much I neglected some of the safes that are hidden throughout the game!,The enemies are also vastly improved from the first game and the new infected types are terrifying to encounter for the first time. The human enemies ended up being the tougher enemies at times due to the way the AI functions.,There’s a lot of review bombing and negative comments about the storyline but for me it clicked every harden than the first game. The story is about consequences and the cycle of vengeance and is handedly very poignantly. For people who can’t get over the plot twists, that’s a shame but maybe they can go on to write their own stories and games if they feel they know better? Some of the latter set pieces are as intense as something in a high-budget Hollywood film.
6899) I love the thirst game. What can can I tell about last of us part? This game is gorgeous! Gameplay, graphics, storytelling, all this aspects are so damn cool.
6900) Well, here are again, another game being review bomb'd and I'm forced to give a 10, I mean, at least the game isn't far off from it. Let's start, the graphics are amazing, the gameplay is a huge step up (especially for melee and stealth), and the story is fantastic. A lot of people whining about the story are either upset about the LGBTQ+ aspects or they read spoilers with no context and were left enraged before playing the game. The Last of Us 2 is not the sequel I expected, but it is one that is true to its world and characters. The first game shows a man who is willing to do whatever it takes to get his job done, contrary to what Polygon thinks, the game is not about selfless actions or anything remotely about altruism. Joel has a mission, he became attached, and then he literally doomed the entire **** population because he didn't want to lose a daughter figure again. It is understandable, but also, if you came out not thinking Joel is a selfish man (albeit relatable) person, you didn't absorb the story properly and this game likely isn't for you as you entirely missed the point of the first one. Which you can see if you read Polygon's review, which honestly is an embarrassing review because the reviewer just blasted out that she played a game and didn't understand it even remotely. I think the hardest part of this game (for some) is that it really asks you to be a decent human who is capable of complex emotions and hopes that you can place yourself in the shoes of others while things are unfolding. It essentially asks that you go in with one motive and understand why you would possibly change that as events unfold and apparently that is asking too much for some 40,000+ losers review bombing the game. If you enjoyed the first game, play this with an open mind and don't become so attached to your own expectations that you get upset when the creators don't adhere to your every specification.
6901) The game is really well done, gameplay is clean, audio is great and the visuals are stunning. I really appreciated the level design and environment as well as the additional enemies and also how they made bloaters into a bigger, scarier threat by putting the encounters in small spaces and also upping the strength and destructive power they have. The game is gritty, brutal and you can tell a lot of passion and work was put into the game. I like the fact that they don't take the marvel route of keeping all the hero's alive (or giving them a way to come back) and they told the story they want and frankly what feels like a natural progression of the first games story. The inclusivity was well done and seemed real. They also did a great job with their accessibility options.,Frankly I think it's better than the first. It stands in it's own and ups the ante. Also I think they handled Joel's murder very well. And by utilizing flashbacks to the time between the first game and this game, it did a was able to continue to have him in the story and also flesh him out as a character while also showing his importance to Ellie.
6902) I have been waiting for this game for a very long time, 7 years have passed since the release of the first part of this game.  I am extremely dissatisfied with jsw in this game and I hope that in future projects of developers there will no longer be obsessive propaganda of feminism and LGBT, which does not develop the main characters, in particular, Ellie.  I am also extremely dissatisfied with the story arc for Abby, which destroys everything that we all love the first part for - the relationship of Joel and Ellie.  But the second half of this game literally almost forgets about the relationship between Joel and Eli, and their place is trying to present us with the relationships of Ally and Dina, who are of little interest to the players.  And this is the tip of the iceberg of discontent - I did not mention the death of Joel, the physique of Abby, reminiscent of Armstrong, and so on.  But anyway, I love this franchise and only put it out of 10. 10. But if this happens again in the future, the developers, be sure, the players will not forgive you for this
6903) The graphics are impeccable as well as the ambient that is much wider with different places, there is nothing to complain about as the plot is completely complete making an incredible connection between the characters, this game is very good for all the effort put into it.
6904) Perfection. Literally in every way.,Please do not listen to the trolls rating the game 0/10 the first hour the game was playable. Clearly none of them have played it and are reacting to bullet points from the leaks.
6905) So some players are pissed off that Joel was killed off a couple of hours into the game. It's a game! Get over it.,Yes. I got annoyed playing for long stretches as Abby and wanted to get back to playing as Ellie but, overall, it made sense.,We learn what was behind Abby's motive for seeking vengeance against Joel. Her motives were just as valid as Ellie's were for hunting down Abby.,The story telling was very good. The game play was us to Naughty Dogs standards. The graphics were gorgeous.,I enjoyed some of the new mechanics of game play and wish they were featured more in the story.,We still saw Joel during the flashbacks and they were bittersweet. For anyone who's lost a loved one they were extremely touching moments.,I saw or heard some of the spoilers before the game was released so I was prepared for somethings but I've never let spoilers spoil a game for me. Sometimes they make me look forward to it even more.,This is an awesome game. Don't listen to the naysayers. Play the game yourself and make your own opinion.
6906) Probably more like an 8.  Trying to level out all the **** 0s.  Story is good, graphics are great.  Must play if you liked the 1st.
6907) I love it, and I'm still processing all my emotions over it. But yeah the game, the ending it's beautiful, powerful, and very HUMAN. The entire story is wrapped around the concepts of cause and effect/confronting the consequences for your actions. Not everyone is going to agree with it, not everyone is going to like it, but frankly that's their choice. And I'm happy it exists.
6908) I would have liked to see a different direction, but that's cause we have built an intense bond with the character's. Its the point of the game, a post apocalyptic tragedy. So, in short, yes they are wrong. Dead wrong. The story is engaging, intense, gut wrenching among so many things. How anyone can say its a bad game blows my mind.,Also, cant wait to see what they do with Factions. .
6909) I can't just say I enjoyed this game,It was so cruel but I couldn't stop playing,This is the darkest game I have ever played,But also one of the greatest game I have ever played
6910) Amazing game about revenge and lose. Real next gen story telling and characters.
6911) Well made game,,I will cheriah this game forever and always will use it to the same message was automatically generated by Gmail a new lines of credit card attached to this email and any attachments are confidential may the force be sent with the same 4
6912) This might be the best game i have ever played,Dont get fooled by the spam of bad scores
6913) I don't care about main characters, this game was amazing. Best game of 2020
6914) The game was magnificent the visuals were incredible the attention to Detail remarkable one of the best games of this year would 100% recommend
6915) Loved it. Was an amazing game of revenge and trauma. Teaching us that not everything is worth it.
6916) This game is a masterpiece!  They handled the characters well and the story was amazing.
6917) I could be a little biased because the first game is my favorite game ever made but I think this is almost as good as the first one the first half 10/10 but after a little bit it drops off for a couple of hours and then picks up again, I would rather play the first one but I think this is a worthy competitor to the first game
6918) The best game ever!!!! Naughty dog did something special with this one.,Game of the year for me
6919) This was 1 of the best games I’ve ever play it was very smooth and fluid from the movement, shooting, to the takedowns of different enemies i thoroughly enjoyed the story
6920) I honestly have never felt the need to write a written review until I saw all the backlash this game is receiving. I saw some negative feed back online the day it came out. I decided not read any reviews and generally tried to stay offline until I completed the  TLOUP2. And I can happily say with my rose tinted glasses off that this game is a masterpiece. A true feat in story telling and gameplay mechanics. The characters are beautifully written and grow naturally as the story continues. Hats off to naughty dog as they’re the bench mark for triple A games and modern story telling as a whole. 10/10 from me. I generally can’t wait for what naughty dog has installed next, if it’s DLC for this game or a whole new IP you bet I’ll be picking it up day 1 regardless. Cheers Ayden Horner :)
6921) This game isn’t bad I really enjoyed playing I think it’s stupid people are hating on it because Elle is a lesbian like really, who cares the game is great it was interesting seeing both sides of a story from each person’s viewpoint I’ve never had that in a video game and it was refreshing it made me really think about the games plot and characters. Overall I loved it and don’t hate just because the main character is gay.
6922) So many emotions, great cinematics, more than a game, more than a movie, its just perfect.
6923) This game is just an absolute masterpiece with perfect gameplay, visuals, and a story that sadly most of the people didnt like because they couldnt really understand what naughty dog was trying to show us
6924) Went in with almost nothing spoiled but was worried bc of all the hate. Now that I finished it I have to say I loved the game even though I didn't love all parts while playing. The ending redeemed the game for me even though it is not a happy ending. It hit me so god damn hard. At first when playing as Abby I wanted to go back to playing as Ellie and didn't enjoy it but slowly she grew on me and by the end I found myself sympathising with her.
6925) Actually, I think this game deserves 8.5-9, but when I saw its low ratings from people who haven't even played TLOU2, I decided to create an account on Metacritic and express my respect and love for Naughty Dog for giving me a huge range of emotions - from smile to tears, sometimes both. I know that Neil Druckmann just laughs at this bunch of envious haters, but I still think that justice should be and The Last Of Us Part II deserves better than 4 on Metacritic.
6926) TLOU2 is a wonderful game. I experienced a wide range of feelings: nostalgia, grief, hate, revulsion, thankfulness, compassion. Anyone can be a good person or an **** And it's not carved in stone. People are changing. No matter skin color, religious beliefs, gender, or sexual preferences. The game shows that a lack of information and rash acts can lead to disastrous consequences. The story indicates what really matters - love and care. Take care of yourself and your loved ones. Appreciate what you have. Revenge is hardly satisfying in the long run. Many thanks to all who made the game. It's a masterpiece: visual, sound, level design and story beyond praise. For me, it's GOTY 2020.
6927) Never in my life had I been so moved by a story before. Now more than ever, we need more media that tackles the lack of representation with plots as deep and insightful as this one. Everyone who says these platforms shouldn’t be political are forgetting the fact that video games are art, and art has never been apolitical. Choosing not to engage with our social context is as political as choosing to resonate the voices of people who are alive and struggling to survive in a world ravaged by chaos. Naughty Dog, I salute you.
6928) Not the best game i ever played, but is, with TLOU1, the games who everyone must play.
6929) Its so dramatic and good the history,i really love this game,the violence is so gore very good
6930) An incredible sequel to an incredible game.  Don’t listen to the trolls review bombing this because they can’t handle a story that isn’t full of sunshine and rainbows, or offends their conservative ideals.
6931) Don't listen to the bigots, the story is actually quite good unlike the first game, which was basically just "The Road". Some very well written characters here, with amazing CG performances from everyone involved.
6932) Its a great game that lived up to my expectations. The characters are well written making every cutscene more emotional and heartfelt. The graphics were amazing. I would definitely recommend.
6933) A great game to play and also a great end to the incredible game The last of us part 1.The graphic is outstanding and the plot is also great . Lets just enjoy this game and not thinking about users low ratings .
6934) Don't trust these low IQ elitists giving 0 scores to this masterpiece. Their shallow minds just can't comprehend all the nuances the world and the people of The Last of Us has to offer.
6935) One word, AMAZING. Great writing, amazing graphics, awesome gameplay. So go but it already!
6936) it was a very beautiful game and i loved it.the moments that you hate the game...and after a day you see you can't carry on till you keep playing the game.,i'm so proud of naughty dog.
6937) the game is a masterpiece and anyone who says otherwise is just hating ... it's not the story we wanted but the story we didn't know we needed .,the gameplay is much better than the first one and the graphics are the best .,i love it and i hope there will be a part III in the future
6938) Beautifully Brutal !!!! 10/10,Beautifully Brutal !!!! 10/10,Beautifully Brutal !!!! 10/10,Beautifully Brutal !!!! 10/10
6939) A masterpiece, continuing the characters' story arc estabilished in the last game and introducing new ones to the world created by Naughty Dog.
6940) This is just overall a bad game. The Characters are bad written. And the Ending...oh god. I dont know what to say!
6941) The social and political commentary make this and excellent journey to make.
6942) Honestly ignore all reviews placed on the 19th July and 20th July, these people can’t give a viable review as the game came out 19th and this game takes anywhere from 21 hours to over 25 to complete, depending on how much you want to take it everything the game has to offer along with the many collectibles hidden away. The story, although harsh for long running fans (hence the many negative reviews), is extremely well done! The graphics look amazing, especially in 4K, the feel of terror and fear you have around every corner adds more to the amazing feel naughty dog have tried to make with this game. This is mainly accomplished by the incredible soundtrack they have put together for the game and the level design and details they have in the game. If I had the option of rating the game out of 100, it’d be a 98, this is because I wish they had a difficulty trophy to the game to encourage more people to play and experience the game on the survivor option. They have added a myriad of new setting features to the game which can improve your game play while also scaring you half to death in various areas. Overall an absolutely wonderful game which I can’t recommend enough to people, but what I would say is to play the first game before to understand the connections between Ellie and Joel before the events of part 2.
6943) The absolute peak of PS4 era and the masterpiece you can't miss. Play it, experience it and let your tears out. I'm glad I survived till today to touch on this game.
6944) I thought it was brilliant. Some really awesome moments in there that no one seems to talk about. Blood dripping off the ceiling after using a trap bomb hahaha  great new enemy types. Honestly I thought the characters were all good, had no problem with the writing
6945) Excellent gameplay, opening up many opportunities for passing the game, wonderful storytelling, unexpected plot twists, an excellent study of the world, attention to detail and a chic atmosphere.
6946) Now on my 2nd go and i love it, people seemed to forget people die in games and i like how this game shows us that no one is the good guy and that the past can catch up to them. also the ending shows Ellie showing her mercy over her wrath and hatred not letting it consume her. One of the best games of ps4
6947) This game is an absolute masterpiece for anyone who enjoys video games. You alternate between 2 characters, Abby and Ellie for the majority of the game in the first couple hours you come across whatvwas for me the most difficult thing to watch in a video game the death of Joel Miller which was in my opinion unnecessarily brutal. However as yku play the game you come to find out that the brutality of Joel's death wasn't just on him alone this whole world is shown to have brutality in equal measure throughout the game. From killing people with baseball bats to hammers, from setting people on fire to shooting their arm off, I unexpectedly realized just how brutal this game could get in which I realized the way Joel was killed wasn't abnormal for this world. As you play the game and more particularly play as Abby who in my opinion had the funnest sequences in the entire game showed the kind of person she is and her motives for killing Joel. The death of Joel while completely devastating and for some heart breaking  was justified and i fully understand just why Abby went out of her way to kill Joel. If you b like games that put you through a emotional roller-coaster similar to the first one then the second one will be for you. I found myself emotionally drained by the end of the game but the story and gameplay as well as the graphics are by far some of the best I've ever seen in a video game. In my opinion this is the best game  Naughty Dog has ever created and truly worthy of 10/10 and GOTY.
6948) Seesh, everyone rating it low is just some fat sexist dude living in his mothers basement, upset that the main character is a female/lesbian. Story and gameplay are both absolutely beautiful. 10/10, must play.
6949) I really enjoyed this game, I don’t see why it’s gotten this much hate the story is gripping and heart wrenching and all things it should be
6950) It was a great experience. I would recomend this game to the people who can understand the story.
6951) Joel died we are not coming back from there but the gameplay the graphics and the open world is a 10
6952) Just loved every minute of this games ! Some pacing issues but still the game is just gorgeously made
6953) An improvement over its predecessor on every front. Intense gameplay and beautiful visuals backed by an emotionally impactful plot that challenges the player in a way that other games rarely do.
6954) Great Game excellent gameplay,graphics awesome the story was pretty good naughty dog make a great game
6955) one more very good game in the 3 days in Seattle and reincorporating part of the last of us 1 very good game in my opinion it's worth it
6956) My best game from this year.,All aspects of the game immerse us in the universe of The last of us.
6957) Amazing game with an emotional story and great character and a awesome sound design
6958) I cried from the first minute of the game!!,if i had the chance, i would hug the whole team of this game. Thans for the fantastic experience!!,I wish you all the best!
6959) Just amazing! Everything is perfect, story, graphics and gameplay! Definitely the best game of this generation!
6960) The game is simply amazing, from pretty much any pov. Gamplay, graphics, art direction, acting, storyline. Brave, milestone game design and production.
6961) Very strange to see this game get review bombed so vehemently. There’s a clear lack of objectivity by tens of thousands of people leaving a review here, and clearly a fair few of those haven’t even touched the game.,Spectacular graphics, refined gameplay and an emotionally driven story that makes this yet another fantastic addition to Naughty Dogs now growing list of classics.,The two issues I have story-wise do relate to some of the decisions made. For me, what makes The Last of Us different from usual survival horror/apocalypse type games is that relationship between Joel and Ellie. The Last of Us IS that relationship more than the world itself and is at the very core of what makes the first game special. If you remove one of those elements then you risk falling back in to just another game, albeit a high level one.,The second issue is the trope of revenge. While naturally you would expect the people closest to Joel to want redemption, the game prides itself on being grounded and it would be hard to accept that in real life, in such a horrendous world, you would leave the sanctity of Jackson to travel hundreds of miles in to an absolute fortress to try and find one person. It’s not a dealbreaker but it does take away from that grounded atmosphere it tries to create.,That being said, I’m more than happy to be an observer of Druckmann’s story, given that he is the creator, much like I would he reading any novel. I admire the fact that they didn’t rest on their laurels and pay loads of fan service to the game, purely to please the (seemingly aggressive) dedicated fan base to this franchise. I want to play a linear story game to be told a story, not to cross off a checklist of things I wanted to see in the game. Generation defining game, not quite at the level of the first game, but the expectations for this sequel were so high that was always going to be a challenge.,It’s a shame that there is an ever present immature streak among a lot of gamers that can’t be objective enough to form an opinion on this game without jumping on a bandwagon.
6962) I'm really confused by the people. It's simply one of the best if not the best game out there. Period. play it, you might dislike the violence, or some game mechanics but it's still a masterpiece.
6963) A realistic sequel,wonderful gameplay,special narrative,voice and sound effects are very very exciting, ... .,I don't say it's the best game of ever or even better than first version,I just wanna say don't rush in judgment,game will show itself with your progressing in it,about gameplay and also story,specially story.
6964) Fantastic game, gameplay is very similar to the first one with the new dodge mechanic making smoother more fun gameplay. Playing Ellie and Abby are both fun, graphics great as usual, violence is top notch, the gore is spot on, the story is great. If you didnt see the sequel turning into a revenge story you are an idiot strong cast with Ellies story getting better and better
6965) Amazing story with a good message (circle of violence).  It is very emotional. Must play!
6966) I love the game. The Soundtrack, the Cutcenes, the gameplay, the graphics and the story. The story tries to send a message, and was delivered. Ofcurse this game is not meant for sensitive people, but if you can take it till the end, is worth every second of it. Dramatic and tragic story, but full of emotions. This game impacted me so much and I can't stop thinking about it. I love games that impact me and that why I loved from the start too finish.
6967) there maybe some disputed，however tlou2 gives me 25 hours best gaming experience
6968) From the very start of this game i enjoyed it, the game is dark, gritty and very emotional. Joel's death hits like a truck and throughout the game you can sense the loss in Eliie. Ellie's thirst for revenge it something you can get behind, well, for people who played the first game. And as the story unravels and you learn of Abby's reasoning you can start to understand her reasoning. As for the technical parts of the game, the graphics are top notch, the combat feels like an improved version of TLOU1, which i loved. The music in this game will give you serious nostalgia for the first game and some of the songs in it will get you emotional and in some cases, may even make you shed a few tears. one thing i wasn't keen on was Abby's section, especially after what she had done to Joel but i think that was intentional. All in all this is a great game that is deserving of all the praise (and some of the critiques) but not deserving of all the review bombs from people who claim to hate the ending even on day 1 of release. No game is perfect and all have their flaws but this to me is one of the closest you can get to an actual 10/10 so that is the score i will give it. All of this comes from someone that has played and platinumed the game.
6969) What a Hell of a ride. One of the most well craftet games there is. I do think it lacks in some parts but that did not bother me all that much personaly. No matter what you think about the story and how it played out, it obviously triggert a lot of emotions, and that is something only very few games can achieve. Form your own opinion about it.
6970) First off this review will probably contain spoilers because I'm going to try and cover all of the idiotic points/facts that people are construing from small articles/reviews they've read that they are using to fabricate their own reviews without actually knowing/experiencing the context of this game.,,Second opening point, if you gave this game a 0/10 you don't deserve to have a login to any review site because if you ACTUALLY played the game and somehow were able to overlook captivating views, scenes, character models, emotions, and lighting (which I'll admit wasn't always perfect) then you most certainly already proven you're a troll. I will say it's OK to not be happy about the ending, but until you've got the balls to make your own game, you can't continue to act like a child that didn't get their way. And if you didn't happen to fully comprehend the points given, the character development that each character went through to get to the end of the game and understand why they made the decisions they made, then maybe story games aren't for you. That's OK too.,,The story arcs it's way through Ellie's revenge driven explosion of violence, through Abby's choices of siding with her faction, or doing what she thinks is right. The Seraphites are a radical group by most accounts, but you find out that it was the Wolves that broke the treaty which ultimately led to Isaac declaring full scale war on the Seraphites island.,,Lev and Yara bring redemption into the fold to show you that Abby was fueled by hate and rage for the death of her father, but isn't a bad person at heart. She's never tried to do the wrong thing or hurt someone without good reason or in response to a threat. The whole side arc of the Seraphites was to introduce a radical spiritual group and show how bad things have gotten during these apocalyptic times.,,Quick touch on Lev, some people are quite literally BUTTHURT because Lev is a transgender character. This is a non-issue, Lev and Abby dance around the subject for maybe 30 seconds and you never hear anymore until later you find out that Lev cut his hair like the "other men" because he wanted to be a warrior after he had been chosen to be a young wife to one of the Elders. You get in total maybe 5 minutes worth of dialogue around the transgender nature of Lev. Gender itself is never even really spoken of during any of the Lev/Yara story events. Commenting or being mad about this subject just shows which people actually played the game and which didn't.,,It's insane to think that people are mad about there being an Ellie girl/girl scene even though she's been gay for the last 10 years. Which once again shows the people leaving those kinds of remarks didn't even play or pay attention during the first game/prequel story.,,If you don't think after living in a thriving community, raising your "daughter", in a safe and ever-expanding environment that you don't think Joel could have a change of heart you don't have any credibility for ripping on the story of this game. The sequence of Joel encountering Abby was one where they didn't have many options at all for where to go for safety, Joel has never been heartless and yet people act like he was supposed to just blow her brains out when he saw Abby about to get eaten alive. Time has passed, people change, hearts change.,,This game like Death Stranding has a lot of negativity around it simply because it has such a passionate player base. Most of the negative reviews (90% or more confirmed by multiple sites) haven't even finished the game, a lot haven't even played it I'm sure (troll accounts) it'll have a lot of reviews wiped away here soon to balance the score. It truly is a 9+/10 game for almost anyone that enjoys video games.,,The only warning I give is that it is very triggering, it's violent to an extent that you rarely see in video games but it portrays a lot of raw emotion in the moment that you hardly ever really feel in games like you do in this one.,,This is a harsh world, post-apocalypse, no cure, varying factions where safe land and supplies are scarce. Nothing you see, or experience is out of the realm of possibility, the game takes you into the extremes and they don't waver on taking chances to show you how cruel this world can be.,,Main thing I ask, if you're a fan, if you love video games, you're better off not being here or knowing anything going in, but if you've made it this far, this isn't the only review you've read which means you probably already know too much. I went in with no spoilers, no reviews, and no expectations, and I was pleasantly surprised, if you bypass everything on the internet I'm sure you will too.,,Will edit later, I typed this over the course 10 hours while doing a cold air intake install and some yard work so my train of thought definitely bounced around a bit. GG.
6971) It is a great journey, with some bolt storytelling.,Emotional roller coaster, love, hate and fear.,If you have the chance to play, you should.,Sorry for the bad grammar, English isn’t my native language
6972) Only 3 words: best game ever! F**k these haters and their review bomb. Idiots get a brain plz
6973) No idea what all the hate is about.,It‘s a mature story, with real protagonists.,Outstanding in any thinkable way!
6974) Nice game i like it 19/10, good sountrack, graphics and a lot of history, good game
6975) Wow...I finished it this morning and I can't stop thinking about it.I've never been this invested and immersed in a game before, I can barely find my words.,The gameplay formula from the first game is much improved and the new mechanics, even if they seem simple, add a lot especially for stealth.Some sections from the second half of the game are peak survival-horror experiences.,The visuals are out of this world and envoirments are huge with an insane attention to details.Every few minutes I had to stop and take the view in, not to mention how every place is packed with notes/items that tell stories of the people who once lived there.,I was initially dissapointed with the story after reading all the leaks and the ending and even considered cancelling my preorder, but I couldn't because I pre-downloaded it, so I went into it expecting a great game with a terrible story.I was very, very wrong.Once I saw how everything unfolds I was blown away, the story is great, characters are extremly well written and even the ending, wich to me seemed irredeemable, turned out to be amazing.I'm never trusting leaks ever again, I can't believe I almost didn't play this.,To me this is a masterpiece that surpasses the first game in every aspect, and it's without a shadow of a doubt my game of the generation.
6976) In my eyes one of the most exciting games i've ever played and the best PS4-exclusive-game.
6977) TLoU2 is excellent, understand that a lot of hate comes from people frustrated by being an exclusive, by the representativeness and/or by the unexpected ending - and if you really played and tried to understand the proposal of the game, you know it was an excellent ending.  It doesn't always have to be a happy ending.
6978) The game had a story that hooks you up just by the dead of one of the biggest protagonist in games history the game is beatiful and ambicious i dont think any saga can be compare to this 2 games made by naughty dog, the graphic are one of the besf graphic i ever seen, the story is ful of trama and Losts, i think this coulb be the next game of the year , i dont understand by this game is hetting booming i think is just people that dont play it because is an exclusive and is understandable thta you defend your position  that xbox is berter but you should realy play it
6979) Half the people here had given reviews on the day the game came saying they finished the game, so its almost obvious they haven't and are obviously just going by the spoilers. Don't bother with that. The game is an absolute must play and the story is amazing in that its truly realistic. But keep in mind it is extremely violent and dark and the graphics are on a whole another level.,,SPOILERS!!!!,,Most of the 0s here are basically butt hurt people salty, about a characters death and have never played the game.
6980) Finally I cleared the game, it brought me very complicated emotional changes, I don't want to describe too much. I understand that the story of the game is unacceptable to many people, but like many valuable literary and artistic works, sometimes unacceptable works do not mean inferior. Whether it is good or bad depends on people's different experiences and values. I will not force others to think that TLOU2 is a good game, and I will never recommend it to my friends. But for me, it is almost perfect. Thanks naughty dog.
6981) It's not a game...It's an experience. Thank you Naughty Dog for this master piece
6982) first of all: I don't care wether this review gets a lot of "non-helpful" ratings as I know that this game got review-bombed and many haters, homophobics and people that didn't play the games for themselves are here to spread their hate. And that's what haters gonna do - hate. Down-voting this and other positive reviews just underlines my statement anyway.,,I purchased the game on release day and somehow managed to play the game unspoiled and didnt hear about the leaks before. So I was really blind to the game - and that just might be the point. I ADORE every piece and part of this game. The characters are so detailed, vivid, emotional,... Naughty Dog just proved once more that there are geniusrd in character and animation design working there. The story is action, hatred, anger but also love and a little laughter and this already in the first 60minutes in game.,,Just as the first game totally changed my priciples (I'd never shoot an uninvolved doctor, not even in vid games, but **** it, i shot everyone at the fireflies in part I) this game managed to do this as well. First i HATED to play the second protagonist of the game but more and more, the character developed, i felt pity, i began to understand, i even cried for him/her until everything merged together in an emotional roller-coaster-like climax.,,Screw the haters, as most of them didn't even played themselves or IF they did, they were already spoiled and made their bad opinion up in their head already - nothing could change these prejudiced people, they never gave the game a chance.,,Play it yourself, unspoiled or try to let yourself into the journey unbiased and you WILL NOT regret it.
6983) Awesome game , worth waiting after 7 years beautiful gameplay and story 10/10
6984) So many hate reviews from people who didnt even play the game. This game is masterpiece. It doesnt allow you to casually enjoy the story it makes you live it. Sometimes life is hard and this is what this game makes the best. Show how sad and useless world can be
6985) it's amazing! the best story ever made in a video game, wordless, visionary.
6986) Fantastic story, the most gripping stories in a game I've ever played. Fantastic graphics and gameplay, visuals and sounds are outstanding. Best game I've played this year and at the top with the other outstanding exclusives from Sony. Its a shame people had to review bomb it on the day it was released before even playing it. All because they didn't get their fairytale story they wanted. This is as real as it gets, no one is untouchable and bad things do happen to good people. 10/10 absolute masterpiece.
6987) Everything about the game is incredible. The graphics, the atmosphere, the gameplay, the music, the voice acting, the story. All 10. If you were a fan of the 1st, you will be a fan of the 2nd. Go buy it and play.,,I Loved this game; since I first played it, it's been on mind when I've not been playing it. Only this game and the first Last of Us had me feeling like this before about a video game. I've never cared so much about protagonists in a game before, the only other that comes some what close is Arthur Morgan is RDR2. Thank you, Naughty Dog for this masterpiece. Please continue to be bold and brave in your story telling. You have set the standard again. Please keep doing what you're doing!,---,,I can only assume people who have review bombed and left incredibly low rated reviews are A) XBox fanboys, B) Fans of other titles that they consider to be the greatest game of all time and do not want TLOU getting that kind of recognition again, C) a combination of both. Note, I'm saying the 'incredibly low ratings' - people can dislike and like different things and that is fine, but the 0's - 4's truly have some weird ulterior motive - if you are looking at reviews to help you decidee, then you can rightfully ignore them. I will say this as well about metacritic - how many of these reviews are verified? 4.5 stars currently on the PS store - those will be ratings from verified purchases.,,As for what may be genuine negative reviews... I've seen a few complaints about *spoiler* not enough Joel and Ellie time and the ending because it wasn't a happy fairytale story - I can't help but audibly lol the world the game is set in and even the real world is not some happy fairytale.,,As well as complaints about playing as Abby - I must admit, early on, I was really not happy about this, but after completing the game, I think this was brilliant from ND. The world is not black and white, Good and evil, there's different shades of grey. Joel was a bad person after Sarah - that much was made clear by Tommy in the 1st game, Tommy talks about having nightmares from their time together. There was a vaccine that would help heal the world. Joel, although most of us would do the same, if given an in game option to do so may I add, stopped that and saved Ellie! Whilst we love Ellie, it's the selfish and wrong thing to do. He killed innocent people. What we do in the game as Ellie is seek revenge, which is exactly what Abby and her crew did... but instead she let Tommy and Ellie live - Joel kills the surgeon, Abby's Dad and Marlene. The game does a brilliant job of not making that crew come across as just some generic evil bad guys, rather we see them as a part of a community much like Jackson... something else that I thought was good was the crew didn't even know Ellie was after them - they thought she was a Scar/seraphite as that's who they were in conflict with. Abby has some redemption with Yara and Lev and her and Lev's relationship felt some what similar to Joel and Ellie, thrown together through bad circumstances. Before Santa Monica I found myself wanting Ellie to stay at the Farmhouse, although I was happy to get more gameplay, because I knew she may end up alone, which is what she feared most. I think I know Joel would not want her to get revenge, but instead to live happily and peacefully with Dina and JJ.. Ellie however is suffering from PTSD. She cannot stop thinking about Joel.,,One thing I may have changed was perhaps maybe play as Abby more before seeing Joel killed, but at the same time, although the most obvious reason why, it was good to find out along the way.,,I've sadly also heard people are upset that Ellie is gay and Lev is a trans - to those people, grow up.
6988) This game is absolutely fantastic. Anybody who is reviewing the game as 0 / 10 is a complete dumbass. The story is extremely deep and thought-provoking. After all these years, it was absolutely worth the wait.,This game is the perfect sequel to the first game, and tackles the themes of loss and sorrow with great passion. The gameplay mechanics are crazy as well. You can be fighting people and you'll hear them screaming when you shoot off their fingers, you can hear people call for their teammates by name (crazy!), and it seems as if every part of the environment is intractable. Every surface you slam somebody against, it's as if that was specifically scripted to happen right there, in that exact place, with that exact method of hitting them (even though it wasn't! love the fighting mechanics they're great.),This game absolutely deserves the title of best of a generation. How the hell is everyone rating this game 0 / 10?? I mean seriously? You think this game is absolute trash; not even one star worthy? You're an idiot if you believe that. Just because you're saddened by plot elements doesn't make the game bad. That's the entire **** point. You're supposed to feel bad; feel loss. The world isn't a perfect place and the game really tries to get that point across. That doesn't mean the game is bad or that you should review it badly. It means you should perhaps (and I know this is going to ostracize me) play the game? Maybe finish it before you rate it terribly like an idiot?,This game has been in development for almost 6/7 years and it shows. They've put tons of time into creating a game that is a masterpiece. Considering this game hasn't even been out for more than a few days, I seriously doubt 90% of the people reviewing here have even finished the game yet.,I firmly believe that if you review bomb this game like a moron, either one out of two things are true:,1. You don't even own the game / a playstation,2. You haven't completed the game / played it at all,I went out of my way to avoid leaks before launch, and did my best to ignore ridiculous **** like this. Naughty Dog, if you read this, you released an amazing game. The actual critics are correct here. This game is absolutely deserving of 9.5 / 10 like they say, 10 / 10 in my book. I literally don't know what could have made this game better. It's a masterpiece.,Don't listen to these people; there is a reason we have actual critics. The game was fantastic, totally worth the wait (love the length of the game). Please continue to curate beautifully written games like this one.,Those of you review bombing, please do two things:,1. Play the game ENTIRELY. This means beginning to end. Don't stop playing halfway through and go review. Actually finish the damn game,2. Come back here and re-evaluate the score you gave the game.,Sorry if this post was a little brash. But it's ridiculous; this game is so amazing and it pisses me off that people might not play it based off reviews passed out by idiots who don't play a game before they review it.,TL;DR - Play the game before giving it 0 stars based off what others have said. You dumbass. *for whoever needs to hear it*
6989) Just for the sake of it, no game is sorry 0, so all you winers for gave a 0 for whatever stupide reason ...
6990) I enjoyed this game and I also liked the story tho.,I can understand ellie's feeling and also abby's too.
6991) Amazing game! Dark, gritty and very realistic. It sets a very high standard in gameplay, story and visuals. It stuck with me, I can't stop thinking and discussing and going over small details that blew me away. A complete masterpiece and a very worthy continuation of Ellie's story.
6992) This game gave me a lot of emotsiy. This game have very interesting story, high quality of graphs. I have not play something like this. Thanks Naughty Dog.
6993) gameplay 10/10,visual 10/10,music 10/10,atmosphere 10/10,details 10/10,God job Naughty Dog
6994) Great game. Great story. Tbh i liked abby’s side better than ellie’s. Joel’s fate was decided when he killed those fireflies in the hospital.
6995) I just couldn’t stop crying... it broke my heart, over and over again. It was honestly brutal. Heart breaking, and sad. Since the first game came out I played it more than five times every summer while waiting for the second part to come out, I follow the game story very deeply, and when the leaks of the second game came out I didn’t read any of them, I decided to wait until the game came out and I pre order it and I play it by myself so I could feel the story, and yeah it broke me into pieces with Joel’s death, I was not specking him to die. Since the beginning of the game I started crying, until the end. It destroyed me...
6996) Excellent craftsmanship, truly a dev team at the top of its game. Thought-provoking, stylish, punishingly brutal storytelling, and apparently the bane of edgelords everywhere. So that's a bonus! About to start my second go-round.
6997) A brillant, complex, twisted, powerful story lived throughout this second opus of The Last of Us. Carried by amazing graphics, gameplay and details, Ellie’s journey is told in an amazing away here. I do not understand the ones who did not appreciated this game as the masterpiece it represents in my opinion. A new level of emotion is reached in this second part, topping what had been done in The Last Of Us.
6998) Flawless. Absolutely flawless. Thanks Naughty Dog, whatever haters can say.
6999) I’ve just finished The Last Of Us: Part 2. I didn’t believe that Naughty Dogs can make a sequel that will be worthy of Part 1. But they did. They **** did it. Special thanks to Neil Druckmann. That was one hell of a responsibility. Story is broke my heart. And I liked it.,Story is brilliant and strong. Gameplay is not from this dimension. And graphic is too. I understand that some decision in the story can make fans angry. But in the game universe it something that has to happened.,It's a true masterpiece that will go down in the history forever.
7000) Killing Joel was basically needed for story and character development, what else did everyone expect?,,Grow up and stop review bombing.,,Great game 10/10.
7001) The whole game you kill indescrimnently, and in the end you don't kill the chick that bit off your fingers a minute ago and who also killed your best friend. The premise of this game is ridiculous. And I hear metacritic isn't allowing anymore negative user scores. Metacritic is corrupt from removing negative reviews and weighing scores from different outlets differently. This is a test. Metacritic wouldn't let me post a review score of zero so now I am trying to post it with a score of 10.
7002) Beautiful Gameplay, Graphics, Game Mechanics! Story was Confusing and some moments were unexpected, Sad n made me Mad but It is what it is i guess!,Loved every Sec of it
7003) The game is epic. Don't let your homophobia judge the game for itself. People are politizing the game. Homophobics!
7004) It's start to think about linking real PlayStation accounts to have possibility check that user even bought the game to score 0/10. I pretty sure that at least half (or more) users wanna to complaining for no reason. Grown up dudes.
7005) Must play !,The game is mandatory for purchase and passing, do not try to read reviews from people who have not played the game.
7006) For me it's 10/10 and nothing will ever change that, i love this game, this world and every breathtaking moment was amazing and scary at the same time and for that thank you Naughty Dog for this unique and wonderful story.
7007) I don't know why everyone is hating this game, yes there are things that should be different, but this game is a 10/10. You have to think twice to understand the deep things, because of this it is an absolute masterpiece!!!
7008) With all the negative backlash I was concerned about the quality of this game, and it surpassed all of my expectations so far. Don't believe the haters, if you loved the original, pick up Part 2.
7009) This is a game about blind hatred and what it leads to.,The plot shows us a picture where Ellie creeps down the moral ladder as fast as she can.,What happened to Joel drove her so crazy that she no longer knows herself that she is no better than a killer.,Watching what was happening, I had only one thought in my head: “Enough, stop, this violence has already crossed all borders and will not lead to anything”,The gameplay is gorgeous too. High-tech stealth action, the gameplay of which is balanced for maximum complexity.,What about the SJW agenda? She is not much here (Abby cisgender character),For me, LoU2 is probably the best game of this generation!
7010) After more than 25 hours I finished the game, and I can without any hesitation say it is one of the best - if not the best - games I have ever played. The poor reviews are most likely by people that haven’t even finished the game, trolls or just some people commenting on it based on the leaks without truly understanding the game. Or just people butt-hurt over the fact that some characters in the game are not exactly like them. The story is rough, gruesome, conflicting and often heart-breaking. The Last of Us is not a happy game, and anyone expecting any different should probably find something else to play. This will truly lead you through a roller coaster of emotions.,It's the most beautiful game I've ever seen, with stunning character design and gorgeous environment. The hair, the eyes, the voice-acting, the performance, the lightning - unlike any other game. In cutscenes, you can really feel the emotions coming from the characters, see it on their faces, hear it in their voice. The infected or the fungus on the walls will leave you disgusted, terrified. The gory mess after blowing up an enemy with a bomb will make you sort of pity them.,The gameplay - the same mechanics as in the first game, but BETTER. You get new equipment, new skills, new weapons. The areas are always huge, sometimes I didn't even know where to go first. This, combined with the ability to crawl under things or squeeze through tight spaces will give you so many opportunities to hide, to kill enemies or to just run away. Sometimes you don't even find enemies if you don't explore certain areas. New people, new infected. Each encounter will keep you on the edge of your seat, not really knowing what to expect.  The physics are very realistic.,The story - this is a story of vengeance, how far a person will go to get it and how it can change them. It will make you see that not everything is black and white. Perhaps there is no good and bad. Perhaps not every hero is a hero and not every villain is a villain. They're just people doing what they think is right. It is hard not to say too much and spoil things. I will say that the story made me sad, happy, angry, heart-broken, scared, pissed, conflicted. It made me smile and it made me tear up. And that, I think, is a good thing, because it made me FEEL something. It made me think about what I would do in those situations. As I said, a roller coaster of emotions.,All in all, in my opinion this game is a truly worthy sequel to the first game. Even more frightening and traumatizing. The people that give it a 0 truly don't deserve to give reviews. Naughty Dog took a bold step with this game, and it paid off. Please don't listen to other people's words - try the game for yourself  with an open mind and make your own opinion. You may be pleasantly surprised.
7011) If this game was a movie , it surely deserves an oscar. The actings the music score and most importantly an amazing story , I loved everything from it .
7012) Never before have I seen such an authentic commentary on hate. This have will make you be implicit in the self destruction of a character you love and the redemption of a character you hate. I commend Naughty Dog for not playing it safe when they could have focused on the more cathartic elements of hate. Instead we got something powerful and something important. This game will make you uncomfortable. That's the point.
7013) Perfect game. Fantastic gameplay, audiovisual design and a complex story that you need a brain to appreciate.
7014) The last of us part 2 is an impressive game at a graphic level and the game play is acceptable, but what stands out the most is its new story, which is a risky story and even ahead of this time, but removing all that, it is a very solid story and well managed, from the well developed characters, the script and how it is narrated, it is a story that you will not forget about it.,The video game is unique and tells that in a cruel and destroyed world people fight to live and that in this world there are no good or bad all do the best they can to survive, in this world it is very difficult for there to be worthy deaths but there are still hope...,In conclusion, it is a spectacular video game with beautiful graphics, a well-made soundtrack and a memorable story.,Have your own judgment and feel the experience that the last of us wants to offer you.
7015) Honestly, best game of the year so far.,Gripping and entertaining story, shockingly beautiful scenery, well acted, well animated, good level design. Playing this made me feel scared, triumphant, sad, and ultimately drained by the end - in the best possible way.,Don't believe the negative press, it's a righteous successor to the first game. One which I can only believe will be vindicated with age.
7016) great game incredible story, epic gameplay, awesome scenarios, great soundtrack, really nobody was prepared for the Last Of Us part 2
7017) The best game of this year. Do not listen to anyone. The plot is excellent!
7018) No bigger piece of art has ever been made. What ND created here is the best and most emotional video I had the honor to play. I literally dropped tears like half a dozen times. Thank you Neil Druckmann, thank you NaughtyDog
7019) Outstanding game, I had so many different things to feel after finishing up this masterpiece
7020) Dont get the hate yes it's sad. But everything is absolutely great. Not even filled with sjw. They imply the transgender and dont even focus on ellie being gay she just is cause that's not the story
7021) Well I just finished this game and then checked the user reviews... I actually can’t believe what i’m seeing! I played for three days straight, which if the low scores are coming from people who have actually completed this game, then they would have had to play for three days straight therefor the game cannot be worthy of a 0.,Some are anal about the story which I get that some people might not like, but to say that it’s badly written just makes me laugh! This is one of the best stories i’ve ever witnessed. It makes you feel things you might not want to feel but that is where the beauty of storytelling stands!,Oh no my fav character died... Get over it have you never watched a good season before people die and you feel emotions, that’s why it’s there. In a world where any action has a consequence, bad things happen and with reason too.,The voice acting and gameplay mechanics alone gives this game at least an 8! I just have to say that reading all the negative reviews actually has me laughing my ass off! These people have so clearly never even played the game or just have poor taste, i’m sure they’ll enjoy Gears of War 6 or Halo: Infinite though.,Seriously don’t let user reviews put you off. A game doesn’t receive 10s from critics if a game is not good. Don’t believe into the theory that Naughty Dog paid for reviews either because again that is just some sort of hilarious joke!,One last thing, i’ve seen angry people over the fact that Ellie is gay... For starters what on earth is even wrong with that and it actually makes no difference whatsoever in the story.
7022) Don't understand what all the hate is about. Are people just pissed because of Joel getting killed? It was sad, but it makes the story of revenge more personal for the player. It wouldn't have been as effective if they killed off a character the players weren't attached to.
7023) Very few games manage to engage so deeply. I loved the character's journeys and growth. The story was only enhanced with those graphics. In all my 30hours of gameplay, I barely encountered any bugs, which I think it speaks on its own of what kind of masterpiece this is. I can't wait to replay the game again!
7024) I've played the first game over 30ish times since it's release and only and couple weeks before the second part came out I went back to the game to get every single trophy available for it. I went through every nook and cranny in the first game, and I'm about to do that for the second. I've watched behind the scenes footage, learned almost everything about the characters and loved each second of it. This game isn't the first game. It's not a story about the lengths a father would go for his daughter. It's about what Ellie would do after losing Joel. (and honestly he should've died in the first game.. The wound he got from the fall alone should've killed him within hours.) and for those complaining about his death, I don't see how this game would've been possible any other way. It would've been just Joel saying "I killed the fireflies to save you" and Ellie would've been moppy for a while but what else could they have done? Try to get a new doctor and basically redo the first game? That's crap. This direction was much more daring and enabled the writers more room to grow Ellie. Get it together. For most of the angry reviews, I can tell they haven't even completed the game but worse than that they nitpick details and explain how they would do it as if they're professional developers or seasoned story writers. Most of them (nearly all) can't even spell "graphics"(or some other easy words) I don't count myself as a professional like Neil Drukmann, or Halley Gross, but I sure as h*ll don't think those bashing the game could've even created a good sentence let alone a beautiful 25 hour long game.,The characters are deeper than any other shooter based game(or any for that matter).Even the NPCs have names to remind you of the blood you're shedding. Some are deeper than others, some I care more than others, but it would be impossible to make every character as deep as Ellie or Abby. But mind you, they didn't make Joel very deep either. They simply made him a grunt that was irrelevant in the grand scheme of things. We still fell inlove because he was new. The only reason he's important is because he found Ellie and that's what made him less of a random person. But Joel, or the idea of him, is a simple man in complicated situations.,I get if you don't like the story, but this the end result of countless hours spent by the ND team. If you're gonna give it a score give it a fair one. if you're gonna bash something properly explain why. Just cause you personally have anger in you doesn't justify an attack on hundreds of people and their work. This game is art and the fact that there are so many id*ots bashing it proves its great art.,The game play is fun, and almost completely different from the first game. There are new mechanics which opens your mind to different perspectives and ways to Traverse. The story picks up where we left off almost immediately (and goes back on forth in the time line) and graphics are beautiful (duh) this game is amazing and I really wish people would get it a real chance but that didn't happen.
7025) When I finished the game I wasn't sure how I felt, I didn't agree with a lot about the story and it didn't go the way I wanted.  I felt like something had happened to me in real life, bothering me.  I went to sleep and the next day I just thought about the story, I started to sort out everything that happened and started to look realistically at the situations that were happening, without anger and disagreement.  I figured this was a masterpiece.  Nothing like this game has ever played me with emotion and it occurred to me to think about it.  I understand people who are angry and I don’t blame them, but I have found something I will always remember and it won’t be easy to forget.  And very instructive how life can be complicated and that sometimes you have to let go of problems, because you never know how far it will go.
7026) I think this is a pretty decent game made with love and care to details. At first glance there are some questionable plot decisions, but later you beginning to understand that there is narrative reasons for everything.,And gameplay is just a top notch experience. It kinda gets repetitive and monotonous later, but animations and graphic effects make every enemy encounter look like a scripted scene, but which you are fully in control with.
7027) A true masterpiece! Could not stop playing the game. Not even the spoilers ruined this experience for me. There is so much good in here. The gameplay was incredible and the story complex and shocking. Looking forward for more!
7028) The Last of us 2, is FANTASTIC. Naughty Dog has definitely defined how to make a game for adults. The narrative takes us out of our comfort zones. The game is technically perfect ... Those who are badly missing from the game are haters, who are too dishonest to admit that The Last of us 2 is excellent.
7029) I'll start off by saying this game is not for the light of heart and it will challenge you against conventional storytelling. Its uncomfortable,overwhelming and challenging. Its bleak more often than not but when it wraps its truly masterful storytelling. The gameplay is top notch. The graphics are unlike anything I've seen.
7030) This game is being bombed by fascists, fan-boys and trolls, don't listen to them,,Wonderful game, beautiful story, great mechanics and some of the best graphics this generation has to offer. Simply a must play.
7031) best game i've ever played in my life. this is a masterpice of video gaming.
7032) Amazing and Great !!!, it was an awesome experience !! This game is just getting too much hate, feel that it is totally unfair ! it may not be according to everyone's preferences, heck even I was furious and angry at certain choices made in the game, but it does indeed make up to it in the end and delivers an emotional roller coaster of a story.The approach taken to deliver the narration maybe new and different, but it clearly brings out the harsh reality of life, everyone is good and sometimes have to be bad, heroes of one story become the villains for another persons story, this game clearly expresses that by giving us two such sides. Indeed this maybe controversial to people who prefer plain right good guys and villains, even I always wanted the good guys to always win, but this game makes you realize that humans are way more complicated than that. In my opinion, I loved the game and the ending, the feels(mostly happy and slightly sad, overall satisfied) still linger on to me two days after finishing the game, very few games do that, the soundtrack and visuals are top notch and really  enforce the storytelling. So please before judging, play the entire game and decide it for yourself, just don't get into the hate bandwagon just because you heard some spoilers, and that you didn't like a particular events or story decisions through those spoilers. The game is indeed amazing !!
7033) Great game.,I don't want to write anything, stupid haters. N.D.  created a masterpiece 10/10
7034) Brutal tale that delivers a new perspective on morality and consequences within a lawless world. Game of the generation.
7035) Incredible, full of emotion. Onto my 2nd play through already. It’s even better 2nd time round!!!
7036) As a fan of The Last of Us, I personally really enjoyed the direction the writers went with this game. I honestly think it's ridiculous how much negativity this game is receiving. I especially think this game is receiving unfair negative reviews from honestly, homophobes.,,The gameplay is genuinely superb. There wasn't a moment where I felt fully captivated in each encounter and had a variety of options to approach. The combat system is great and provides even a small-thrilling challenge even on moderate. No game is really enjoyable if you can go through the whole game with barely a scratch.,There were moments where I got jumped by scares and felt anxious to press forward. I loved the thrill the game provided. Most of all the game provided fluid close quarter combat. I found this to be one of the game's best new mechanics. Being able to dodge melee enemies and counter attack felt really fluid and fun. The game provides you with enough creativity when approaching different groups of hostiles.,,The story was captivating from beginning to end. In contrast to most user reviews, I grew emotionally attached to the characters. I personally was satisfied, yet unsatisfied with the ending (but in a good way). With the way the game unfolds and plays out, I felt like Naughty Dog took the best approach to end the game. I felt quite similar to the first game's ending. The characters have a lot of depth and growth as the game progresses. I found the direction of the story to be great! It was unorthodox, in that it sowed the present and past to tell a great emotional story.,,Despite what other reviews say, this game deserves the score that Naughty Dog worked so hard for. 10/10. I genuinely am saddened by the negativity user's are giving it just because the story may have not gone the way they wanted it to. Especially the negative reviews that are bashing the game solely because it contains a homosexual couple. I’m also under the impression that a lot of people who reviewed the game also didn’t finish the game. I felt like it was an authentic aspect with the characters, in no way did it feel forced. Most user reviews act like the writers pooped the bed and just developed a "fund-raiser" game. I think Naughty Dog did a phenomenal job. No game is perfect and will satisfy you in every way, but this game was extremely enjoyable and gave me a lot to think about when I wasn't playing.,,This game definitely deserves your attention and a full play through. Do I think this game is perfect? No. However, I do think this game deserves the high score with all of its production qualities, story telling mechanics, and enjoyable gameplay. I very much enjoyed this game and would put this in my PS4/Xbox One generation top 3!
7037) 10/10 is minimum rate for the game. Story is deep and interesting, i think its a must play game but not for kids.
7038) Masterpiece that surpasses the first episode in every aspect takes gaming to the next level. You might like the spoilers or not but you sure need to play this game to understand it.
7039) Next level storytelling, and brutally emotional ride. It's not just a game, it's a masterpiece of storytelling and immersion. It elevates the first part and dives deeper into this world. I was shocked seeing the amount of hate this game received, so I expected to be bad, but I was very wrong. GOTY for me. Naughty Dog serves excellence once again.
7040) A dark, beautiful journey fulfilled with violence. A rich, deep emotional roller coaster for me personally. I enjoyed it very much, even more than I enjoyed tlou1. Both the game itself, and what happened around the game made me think. This is definitely not a game for everyone. Please don't hate others if they don't agree you on this game.
7041) Truly a masterpiece. Beautiful, heartbreaking story as well as moving side stories discovered in letters and notes found around the world. Excellent combat mechanics and varied, complex enemies. Beautiful design, brilliant voice acting, and a game that reminds us that nothing is black and white.
7042) This game is phenomenal and I’m still digesting the story several hours after completing it. I could delve into the themes and metaphors this game explores but I wouldn’t want to spoil anything about the story - it’s something you need to experience yourself. Try to avoid all spoilers and go in with an open mind; the story will be divisive for fans of the first game but that’s part of its beauty.,The gameplay is an improvement on the first and it looks, feels and sounds stunning - you can tell how much work and love the developers and actors have put into this.,Naughty Dog have created a truly special sequel to one of the best games of all time, and in my opinion, part 2 is one of the best forms of any media I’ve experienced in a long time.
7043) It is really sad to read reviews written during the day one with only 0. If you pay attention reading most of them, you will find many elements that show you that the reviewer hasn't played the game.,About the game, this is the opinion of a guy who played everything since he discovered videogames, and a guy who has never been a huge fan of the first chapter. In this case I can't but admit that TLOU Part 2 is one of the greatest masterpiece in the history of the medium. The screenplay is a magestic work of characterization, developing this double pursue, a double tale of revenge. But if you really understand the game, you won't find a revenge story. You'll find the best sequel ever made to a game, and Naughty Dog made some of the most extreme choices towards the public and the mythology of the game. The result is an enormous tale-of-doubles which developes the great lie which closed the first chapter in an incredibile whirlpool of violence and brutality.,The gameplay is a continuous and total integration with the awesome scenarios that have been realized in the best graphic level ever seen on ps4. The gameplay of tlou has been renewed in its rhythm, often ripetiteve and sometimes a bit woody. Tlou offers a range of genres and situations, and some of them are already game history. The level with the sniper or the sequence on Serafites' Island are nothing but works of videloudic art.,Surely it was inspired by the operas of the genre, especially MGS 4, but it founds its own identity in those hard choices ND took. When you discover that after 15 hours of progression with Allie your adventure is gone and you restart with her nemesis who killed the beloved Joel, you'll need time to accept this. But it's not a punishment against player, it's a new pact with the player, who will live actually an experience, not a game. And when the true finale comes, the picture is complete, Joel is not the one who inspires revenge, but the man who condemned Allie saving her. So she is not looking for vengeance, but she's trying to overcome hatreness against that friend-father.,Yes, TLOU totally overwrites the first chapter, but this is nothing but an incredibile pivot point in ND philosophy. It's a matter of faith, and everyone should overcome his preconceptions to embrace this masterpiece, which completed the path that Death Stranding seemed to have completed. The videogame has finally reach, completely and irreversible, the state of art.
7044) This game is a awesome.,I loved the soundtrack, it was catchy, and the characters, oh my god, they're so alive!,Joel's death was sad, but necessary, it was a great motivation to let Ellie so **** angry, but he doesn't died like Joel, he died like a weak man, he should die, but not like that. I'm not saying that he must had worthy death, because it's the end of the world and the death never have been beautiful.,(I'm not American, sorry for my orthography errors)
7045) Story is a bit lame. Game play and graphics great as expected. Great game still overall. Low 9/10 but giving it a 10 because of these bombers :D
7046) I really enjoied the story of the game. It is something different but still very good and dramatic. The gameplay is perfect.
7047) SPOILER FREE: It delivers, with an immense amount of thought behind it. It has no fan service and no super hero shenanigans. Every character feels real, being written in a humane manner.
7048) absolutly stunning .. just starting new game+,it is a 10/10 game and a gem of this generation. And now to finish it second time and then it will be ghost of tsushima.... almost around the corner ;)
7049) Great game! Amazing masterpiece you need to play. Don’t believe these troll that review bomb this game.
7050) This game is absolutely stunning, and I was continually shocked at the levels of detail and nuance used throughout. I am happy to have avoided the leaks before the game came out - even though I caught wind of Joel's demise - because that left me able to make up my own mind with the game.,,I read and hear people saying that things didn't make sense with either how characters acted in a certain situation instead of being more suspicious. But what they're not taking into account is what often happens after a high stress situation - you relax. Even if just for a little bit. Joel, Tommy and Abby had gone through a high stress situation together. They worked as a team to survive. It makes sense that their guard was down. Disappointing, but it happened.,,As players in an RPG, we don't get that personal experience because we're taught to be on guard the whole time, and most importantly - by our self with no-one else to rely upon. So, naturally, our guard will stay up after a tense exchange with the WLF, The Seraphites or the Infected. No-one has our back, so it's in our best interests to stay on guard until the ominous music stops.,,It seems the critiques of this situation are purely taking an intellectual perspective, rather than taking into account the emotion side as well. It's always easy to "As if" from the sidelines...,,Next thing:,,Any complaints about LGBT inclusion in the game as being political, woke, or any other description is missing the point. This is commentary on both the past and present acceptance of this community. To be accepting of it isn't about being "woke", it's purely about acceptance of another human being. The reason it's being talked about nowadays is because it's no longer taboo, or putting someone's life at risk for that being their life. TLOU2 shows the cross of old thinking with current acceptance - The Scars vs. Abby. It also shows that some elements and struggles in a post-apocalyptic may not be that different from what we experience in our comfortable arm-chair lifestyle that we have today.,,Last thing:,,I hear complaints about not enough advancements in game-play mechanics. TLOU has always been about story first. In fact, Naughty Dog has been very consistent with this right from the beginning of the Uncharted series. Yeah, the gameplay mechanics were ok, but it was the STORY and characters that we connected with the most. ND pioneered mo-cap, and moved the industry as a result. When we talk about our favourite moments in TLOU1, it's not about this or that fight that we had. We talk about the moments that were cinematics - moments that we were the passenger as that moment of the story unfolded. Ummmm.... Same thing here! Yeah, there were improvements to gameplay mechanics - were they revolutionary? Mostly no. But that's not where their full efforts go. Everyone loved the first game even though there was wide acknowledgement that the gameplay mechanics weren't as good as othe games. This is called balance.,,Ok, ACTUAL last thing...,,I don't know how people were finishing the game in 25-28 hours! It took me just shy of 41 hours over 4 days to knock this game out. I got complete value for money out of it. Yes, I looked in every nook and cranny to get the most out of it. I soaked it all up. All the little details hiding in the different corners. This is a HUUUGE RPG, and so worth exploring all the little details that this team has worked tirelessly to be able to achieve.,,I absolutely loved this game. I'll play it again and again for sure. Perfectly legitimised itself as a sequel with beautifully executed ties to the first one to create drama and resolution.
7051) This is a game you have to play all the way through to really appreciate. Honestly about four or five times throughout the game I thought I was at the end and for the first few I thought, “ehhh decent story but not that great.” Then the story kept going. What it ended up being is a masterpiece, better than the original. This game forces you to play as Abby, the one who killed our beloved Joel. When it first switched to her I didn’t want to play with her. Was I wrong. She’s now my favorite character in the series. She has so much depth to her. The entire game uses this to show us there are two sides to every conflict and who is evil is merely due to where you’re standing. Abby overcomes her hate in some respects but can’t let go of it in others. It’s the most true example of human nature I’ve ever seen in a video game. The two games together could be studied over a semester in the same way we studied classic literature in high school and college. I can’t say enough good about this game. Don’t listen to the people who hate it. This is truly and honestly the best game I’ve ever played. I loved it so much in fact I created an account just to review it (never reviewed a game before).
7052) Best game ever, more exciting than part one.,Nice sound, amazing graphics and story
7053) unbelievable experience, top notch graphics and sound, uneasy but enjoyable story.
7054) This game is better than the first in every way. story, gameplay, soundtrack and development. a great game!
7055) Everyone who gave a 0 is a Hater, and they just didn't understand the first Game. She was in Girls the whole time, so what?,Are we back in 19th century?,And the other Point, how did you think the storyline should continue with him?,Perfekt! It's a Game for the future!
7056) 1000% worth playing and experiencing. The story leaves you with a lot of questions, but it's worth working through it all on your own.
7057) Neil, just thanks for this amazing game, i need more of this!! Please, don’t let the ellie’s story ends like this, alone, sad and dead inside. We all deserves another game with an Ellie redemption.
7058) I'm not done yet with this game, have been playing for 9 hours. But I'd like to say something. I do not understand you people. Some are mad that they killed Joel. Let me ask you, what did you expect? He had enemies and if you ask me, he deserved to die. What he did in the end of TLOU 1 was selfish. I understand why he did it, killed all the medics and saved Ellies life, but for what cost? Save one life, because you cannot handle your emotions and let millions to suffer. That is a scumbag move. Beggining of TLOU 2 felt like a High school drama game and again, what did you expect? We are playing as a 18 years old girl, who is in love, no freaking sh*t that they did it. And what does it matter who she kisses boy or a girl.,I'm not done yet with this game and I don't know if I like this game. But for now gameplay 9/10, atmosphere 10/10 and story is 9/10, lvl disain 10/10, sound/audio 10/10. Details for this game 10/10. Holy flying crap, those details are amazing, how glass shatters, snow physics, if you headshot someone or shotgun the leg out of window :) and so on. Details ARE amazing. Graphics 10/10, feels like playing with ps5,Why do I rate this game right know? Because of bombing...,I hate then games or movie/TV series try to write some SJW or some forced gay sh*t into the story. Key word is forced.,Example is Netflix Witcher. If it's not forced SJW then I don't know.,But for know TLOU2 does not feel forced and all is going smoothly, reccomend to play. Have been playing for 9 hours and already shocking.,Sorry for a long post, take some potato and sorry for my English, if you had stroke while reading this, I'm sorry.
7059) Great game, have more than 22 hours in and not finishing anytime soon it seems, the game is neverending! Great characters, beautiful world, brutal, hars and unforgiving just like I would imagine an apocalyptic world. Love the relationahips and the way they evolve. Masterpiece!!!
7060) I don't know where people are getting these horrid reviews because I think it's one of the best games out there right now! As a matter of fact I absolutely hated the ending to last of us part 1 but I still love the game! I see some people saying they're confused about how the story goes and what the plot is you must not a played it because it's pretty clear!
7061) Absolute masterpiece of a game. Only people who are trying to be trendy and those who are bigots are bashing it. Grow up people and enjoy this brilliant story and remarkable lived in world.
7062) I would like to just let you all know, those bad reviews written on June 19th when the game was just released and players probably only played 2 hours of the game should be totally ignored.,,I have finished the game and I can say, with confidence, that this game is a masterpiece. Yes it has a lot of moments in the story we would have liked not happening, but let's face it, the world of TLOU is cruel, is dark and it's realistic.,,Ellie makes weird decisions that can be seen as unnecessary or dramatics, but I honestly think, placing ourselves on her shoes, this girl has gone through hell and back. She has lost her friends and family and was born on this crazy world filled with monsters and people killing people to survive. She is hurt, she is traumatized and we can see this towards the end of the game.,,We don't deserve Ellie. She is strong, she is the embodiment of lost and suffering, and still she is a fun charismatic character in the story. She is seeking revenge, and it's valid, she was angry with Joel for something totally unnecessary, she lost him without being able to fix their issues. She feels committed to seek revenge because of this. It makes sense.,,Abby, her back story, it's so raw. Ellie takes away from her, basically everything doesn't she? Is her reason to kill Joel valid? YES! He did not only kill her Father, he took the chance of a cure away from humanity! Do we support Joel's decision on saving Ellie on the first game? We did, but just like Abby tells her Father, if it was her she would have liked him to sacrifice her to save humanity, and Ellie feels the same doesn't she?,Abby is such a strong and interesting character, she has lost her father, the man she loves who got another girl pregnant and still she is there. She has a heart, she saves Lev and Yara and forgives Ellie's life, even after they almost kill each other and Ellie has taken everything away from her. I respect her 100%. I must say, I didn't want to like her, but I ended up really understanding her and her motives.,,The game itself it's to play, the story, its darkness, facing decision you must make (having to fight against Ellie had me tearing up) but this is the story this characters are living in. What's bad? The game can be exhausting. You feel like it's going to end and it keeps going. After playing with Ellie on the farm, you believe it's all over and the game just keep going.,,The gameplay, it's pretty much the same as the one on the first game, of course new abilities are added given character's size and strength. But overall you do feel familiarity and continuity with the first game.,,Overall, I loved this game, it's so worth playing, it's too long but you love it. I recommend it 100% and I am thankful with the amount of work Naughty Dog invested on this masterpiece.
7063) One of the greatest games I have played in a long time. I went into it completely blind, no spoilers, only seeing the first ever trailer for Part 2. I had no clue about Abbey, or the major things that happen. And i absolutely loved the game. I'm actually quite shocked at the hate this game is getting. I get not being satisfied with some things in the story, but saying it's a 0/10 is absurd imo.,,If you've been spoiled by now but haven't played the whole game, I truly recommend you play the game before leaving that bad review or hating on it. As the days go on I'm seeing more people complete the game and more positive reviews coming in. (Not saying you're in the wrong if you don't like the game. But don't be someone who leaves 0/10 before even finishing it),,Anyways, highly recommended imo.
7064) The best game, how the first part. Poor Ally’s revenge story for Joel’s loss. We will not miss him very much, personally I am depressed because of the music of the game and the plot
7065) A phenomenal game, beautifully put together. It will go down as one of the all time greats. In every sense, a worthy ‘part II’ to the original game, improved in every way, but with a much more complex story to tell.
7066) A complete disrespect for Joel and Ellie and the fans of the original game. Also the trailers manipulated us into thinking Joel was in it later on.
7067) This is a test metacritic is't giving people the choice to leave negative reviews on this game, THE MARKET IS CORRUPT YOU NEED TO SEE THROUGH THE LIES OF THE COUNCIL AND TAKE EVERYTHING BACK TO ZERO COMPANIES DON'T CONTROL DE MARKET THE BUYERS DO POR LA LIBERTAD!!
7068) Just finished the game. Why I can understand why some wouldn't like the story, rating it this low is lunacy. I for one was gripped the whole time. Had moments of tears, smiles, and nervous shaking(none more than that last night in Seattle.) Give the game a chance. It's quite the ride.
7069) Best game on the PS4 by far. All these negative people are just losers
7070) Please dont listen to all the negativity seen here! Just finished this game and all i can say is wow. I loved every minute of looting and fighting my way through seattle and its aftermath. Naughty Dog never disappoints. The writing was excellent and i was so happy to continue the last of us story. I did not think that the original game needed a sequel per say but the feelings of emotion and confliction i had while playing this was amazing. I loved the new skill trees and weapon upgrade mechanics, the use of puzzles to unlock safes, the amazing visuals, the small details, and everything else this masterpiece had to offer. The devotion of the team making this game is very apparent and i am beyond satisfied with this addition. Thanks so much Neil and the Naughty Dog team!
7071) Last of us part 2 is an amazing achievement in gaming history. Some of the set pieces/environments in this game are truly breathtaking. Gameplay is similar to first game but adds additional mechanics which enhances it. I personally enjoy story driven games and I can tell you this does not dissapoint,  its a roller-coaster ride from beggining to end. The world is brutal and it tells it threw story, gameplay and letters that are collectibles that give you a insight of the hardship people had to endure to live in this world. Well done to the team at naughty dog for another fantastic game.
7072) The TLOU in my opinion was never really about the characters or the story it was more like about ideas and morals. The focus of the first game was on selfishness while the sequel shows how revenge can be a vicious never ending cycle which can claim your soul. The other important thing is to understand why the developers made the notorious second section of the game that people love to hate. The point they tried to make is that there is no good or evil in the world only humans. The other point was why someone’s revenge can be justified whilst other’s can’t.The only reason why they could not make the point is because of the leaks people already hated the second half not even giving it a chance. If you think the game is garbage just because the story unfolds as it does or because what happens to some characters than you missed the whole point of the game and yes whether some people like it or not this game does require some intelligence and a certain age. Not because of the brutality mostly because you can only understand what you see in this game if you have experience in life. You are also required to recognize foreshadowing and metphors to understand what the game tries to tell you. Also some other reviews say that their problem was the large amount of violence made them numb to it. Well that was one point that the game tried to do only they did not realized it. There are so many other heavy topics discussed such as redemption and forgiveness. TLOU 2 is a 25-30 hours soul torturing and it feels awsome. The game is not perfect there are few characters that are kind of one dimensional but I think we seen worse. The game looks stunning and the gameplay is much more enjoyable than the first one. I would describe this as more of an experiance rather than a game and I would strongly recommend it for those who are not judgemental and for those who can look past the thigs that are in front of them.
7073) This game gives me mixed emotions but nonetheless it is truly amazing. I do think that some decisions in this game did suck, but it made sense and it made the entire storyline of this game possible. Things I want them to do is either make a third game or a spin off of her going to try and find Dina and J.J. and make things happy between them again, that would be a good ending to the sequal, I honestly wouldn't care if there was no fighting in the game at all and us just having fun with Dina and J.J., I just want to end this sequal off on a good note. Thank you Naughty Dog, Again pls do make another game, and dont kill anyone please. At least not humans.
7074) The sequel is an upgrade to every aspect of the original. Don't let the very vocal minority dissuade you from taking a chance on the game.
7075) I’ve read some of the bad reviews, and I have no idea what people are talking about. Most of them seem to just be going with the herd of trolls who set out to destroy the game’s ratings. This game is astonishingly good. You owe it to yourself to try this game for yourself. It’s every bit as amazing as the first one, and even better in my opinion.
7076) Another brilliant story driven game from Naughty Dog. Every part of the game are absolutelyexceptional, the lighting, sound, level design, soundtrack, characters and narrative are all leaps and bounds ahead of any current game. The attention to detail is absolutely mind blowing! A must have if you're a Playstation 4 owner.
7077) Simply perfect... Such a shame the game's user rating is gone to **** bc people can't see two girls kissing on their screens
7078) Awesome game,Story 10,Graphics 10,Characters 10,Daha ne istiyosunuz oyun mukemmel
7079) It's awesome. Masterpiece for the last decade.,The creators masterfully raised numerous questions for us in social, religious and transnational fields.,The first game for me where no any hero or antihero and impossible to exactly identify who were rights. Also, it's very sad that some people's selfindentify themselves in Asiatics boy when lesbian regect a boy, but not an Asiatic boy
7080) Most of all im just here because of the review bombing idiots. Hi *waves with hand*,,Finished the game yesterday on survivor and the ki is very good nothing i have seen in other games the enemies are so annoying and thats something good.,The gameplay got better in every way if you look at the last one imo,The storytelling is nothing less than a masterpiece. Yes it is a little bit to long at some parts in the game but that changes nothing about how good the story is told.
7081) Great story, great game design.  Everything was the best game.,Abbey's human charm was wonderful and made us want to live in this world.,Survive in this world where even Joel cannot survive.,It felt that this world was changing more severely than the previous work.,Thanks to Naughty and everyone for making this amazing game.
7082) Here's my take. For reference, the first game is easily my favorite game of all time and my favorite story ever told. I do not understand all the negativity that surrounds this game. I hear people complain about how the characters that we grew to love are treated, and you know what? First off it's a post apocalyptic world, people die, get over it. Also, at first I was a little mad about Joel's death, but as the game unfolded it made sense. Everyone **** about Abby, and at first I didn't like the idea of playing as her, but she also has a side to the story, and she is not the monster that everyone puts her out to be. Her side shows she has heart and care for others. Those others just happen not to be the characters we love from the first game. What this game really shows is that Ellie is no more evil than Abby is, and Joel was no more evil than Abby is too. I think Tess said it best in the first game. "We're **** people Joel, it's been that way for a long time.",NOBODY in this world is a saint. Ellie and Joel are just as bad people as all of the WLF and Abby. This shows you that the world is dark, and it's meant to be. Once I warmed up to Abby as a character, I really did not mind her place in the story, and I think her motivation for killing Joel is well warranted. Did I want it to happen as a fan of the series? No. But I feel it was necessary to make a sequel worth anything. If you're a hater, take a second look. Put yourself into the shoes of every character,  especially the ones you take control of. It's not a bad game. Matter of fact, it's fantastic. Cheesy moments from time to time, but not enough for me to go review bomb this game like everyone else is doing. Enjoy it, and realize at the end of the day, it's just a video game. Don't take it too seriously, and don't let it upset you like it has so many people.
7083) perfect, like the first. Masterpiece. I hope a third part
7084) the game is great.
7085) The last of us Part II guides you through emotions, impressions, and sincere motivations. It shows you the other side of the conflict in a way that no movie can, banal, because of the timing.,,The game caused a lot of emotions - hatred, tears, compassion, sadness. And pleased with excellent graphics and gameplay.
7086) Best game i have ever played. I think that most people who critique the story simply dont understand the themes it creates and how truly impressive it really is, especially considering Part 1's brilliance.
7087) Incredible gameplay, brilliant sound, fantastic AI. A perfect sequel for a perfect game
7088) So, You kill 100-150 people as Ellie, just to get to the end, and you are forced to decide not to kill Abby, because... and I kid you not, "killing people is wrong"? I mean, you'd think, hey a writer can't be this stupid. Sadly, you'd be wrong.
7089) Absolutely loved it. Though I must admit I wish Joel had much more of a heroic death, if it had to happen, and it wasn’t so near the beginning of the game. Initially I despised Abby for her actions and was even extremely annoyed that the player was forced to play as Abby for a very long portion of the game but towards the end I understood her actions and it was almost hard to paint her as a villain. I even held back at the end fight scene between Ellie and Abby because I didn’t want her to die! I can’t believe you made me grow to ALMOST like the woman that killed my Joel. Well played Naughty Dog, well played. I truly think you should go into this game uninfluenced by any posts you may have seen written about this game. I believe it is a masterpiece.
7090) Ps4 has 4 masterclass Exclusives. Bloodbourne, God of War, Horizon Zero Dawn and......,,The Last of Us 2,,There are VERY few games that make you feel strong emotional responses to their story and gameplay, good or bad. And The Last of Us 2 is the pinnacle of the current generation of games. If you want an indepth review, there are plenty you can look up. But what i'll tell you is that those are review bombing this game due to the sexual orientation of characters and the twists.... they are out of their minds, and likely have not completed this 24 - 40 hour game. The game isn't entirely perfect, and no game truly is. However this does not detract from the absolutely stunning experience.,,Buy it. It is entirely worth your time. Despite what the vocal minority on the internet thinks.
7091) This game its a work of art and you all rating the game with low grades probably are prejudiced and limited people, and your opinions doesn't matter for anyone, you are just  an baby haters crying because your minds are so small to understand the world of this game  and that everything happened for a reason, even if it was in a painful way!
7092) This is my first time reviewing a game, it's not usually something I do, but I couldn't not give this game a 10. It truly is a masterpiece, and something everyone involved in the development should be really proud of what they have achieved!,,Try to ignore the amount of bad reviews, that amount of bad reviews in such a short space of time clearly shows they were not reviewing the whole game! Yes, a certain characters story comes to an end, and yes it sucks that it did, but c'mon guys - what did you expect? Did you genuinely think ND were going to basically mirror the feeling of the first story... They've switched it up, and I for one absolutely loved the experience. Give the game ago and be open minded.,,The graphics are truly spectacular, the gameplay is similar yet polished, the story is different but that doesn't make it bad, if you accept it and see where it takes you then it really is a great experience.,,Easily my favourite game on PS4, and I'm yet to talk to any of my pals who disagree. I finished it on Sunday night and couldn't stop thinking about the overall experience of the story.,,Of course there are a couple things they could have done different, but anything major enough to lower my score? Hell no.,,Anyway, this is just my opinion, but I felt the need to briefly write my thoughts on the game, so hopefully anyone involved in the making of the game may stumble across it amongst all the unnecessary hate, and appreciate that the majority of people accept it for everything it is, and truly appreciate the masterpiece they've created.,,Thanks for making one of my lockdown weekends a much better experience with this game!
7093) Not sure why people are hating on this one so much. It’s a story full of complex characters that certainly makes you feel the impact of everything you did in the first game and in this one. Excellent graphics, gameplay, and performances make this my top game of 2020 for sure.
7094) The game is straight up beautiful, all the hate it gets is from people that can't focus on story and small details. Everything makes sense and is created beautifyul. Best game of the year or meybe ever,
7095) The last of us part 2 is an incredible improvement over everything that concerns games soundtrack incredible voiceovers good sound effects and an excellent graphics the game has been having many hates that in my opinion are extremely unnecessary I don't understand why people hate it so much when there is any change for me joo shows as well as the complexity of an apocalyptic time in which no one can be considered a hero or a village anyone can die at any moment without any ceremony and even in a foolish way the psychological confusion that such world forces on the characters and very well portrayed in my view the game was very well told and done in all aspects you may not even like the story what is your right but for gameplay soundtrack, voiceovers, effects and graphics, it is foolishness, evil and hate to fool a a score lower than 8, even so, I think it's an injustice, without a doubt, the best game of the generation and the best of the genre, thank you.
7096) This game is amazing,I dont understand why people hate it. We already KNEW this story would be depressed af and with themes like violence and lgbt stuff...so why before it was released that was okay and now not?
7097) Truly is an amazing game. Everything from the music, gameplay, and yes story is simply masterful. Every little detail successfuly transports the player  to the game and helps maintain immersion. I'd recommend it to anyone who wants to be told a wonderful and deeply emotional story.
7098) I don’t understand the hate the game is so good and the graphics is way beyond reality I love it
7099) Is a really good game and an excellent precuel of the first game. Its not as good as the first, but it a masterpiece, and because there are gay characters its not a reason for hating the game.
7100) After 7 years i picked up this game and absolutely loved it. The story is great and abby is such a complex character.
7101) This game is a masterpiece.  There is hardly a game that has touched me as emotionally as TLOU 2 did.
7102) i make extra an Account for this game, to say that this game is a masterpiece and everyone should enjoy this beautiful game
7103) *Spoiler in this review*,I am leaving a 10. I don't usually review games but considering the dubious user score this game is receiving I feel like weighing in is the correct option. This game is a masterpiece. Everything, from the story to the gameplay is exceptional. You may disagree with some choices Naughty Dog decided to follow while making this game but it's undeniable that everything feels intentional and well constructed. You may disagree with the decision of killing Joel in the first act but you'd be damn sure saying that Neil Druckmann knew what he was doing when he decided what would happen to Joel. The entire plot revolves around his death, even at thimes when it seems like the game is drifting away from him, you still can see Joel's footprint in whatever the surviving characters are doing. The first Last of Us, like the name suggests, is a deep dive into the human nature and its title is symbolic in Joel's decision of sacrificing humanity for a little girl he'd grown into as a father figure. A selfish act, but a human act nontheless. "Us" is the humanity in Joel's last decision. What makes me feel like this game is such a masterpiece as the first one was is the fact that the spirit of an imperftect humanity that defined the first chapter of the game can be felt massively on this second chapter. If what drove the first game was the spirit of love which could push a man into screwing everyone else for the love of someone else, what drives the second one is hate. Visceral and disgusting hate. A dark, sad and sometimes too invadent part of the human nature that defines us as much as we are defined by love.The story-telling is great. While playing the game I felt numerous times like I didn't know where the story was going to take me, or why some characters wanted to do some things that seemed so bizzare at first, but during the entire playthrough the storyline unfolded more and more to the end, where things clicked right into place. What makes this game so divisive is also what makes this game so great. Some people hate this game entirely because of Abby, wich is entirely understandable, after all she violently kills the father figure you'd learn to love in the first chapter and it seems like the game is pushing you towards liking her, almost if the game hopes we'd forgotten what she did to Joel. But the thing is, the game (and that's the brilliance of this game) doesn't care if you like Abby. To a certain extent this second Last of Us doesn't even care if you like Joel, Dina, Lev or even Ellie. The point of this game is to show you the humanity of each and every one of them. What selfish, dumb and entirely human flaw drives each and every one of them. You're in the crossfire of humans being humans, and the symbolism of the butterfly on Ellie's arm is surreal. Joel could have saved humanity if he'd let his "daughter" die. Abby could have never killed Joel if only she didn't let herself be blinded by the spirit of revenge. Abby's decisions are what eventually led to her faith if she'd never killed Joel, she never would have met Lev and Yara, finding the love sentiment that defined Joel himself. Every character is brilliantly defined and feels like a real human being doing what you or me would have done. You can find love, hate and sadness in every character of the game, but that's the beauty of The Last of Us, there are no good or bad guys, everyone is just a "guys". The characters are three dimensionals in every aspect of themselves. After all is still a game, and what a great game. Naughty dog has a track record of making technically excellent games and this game is no exception. The physics, the graphics, the shooting, the animations and the musics are top notch in this game. Killing a human being is incredibly real and gruesome. It's awesome but also disgusting, it's great. There are times where the game is outright scary, where you are either terrified of fighting humans or infecteds. The AI is phenomenal, and the interaction system between NPCs is surreal.,The new movement system also makes this game feel like it's from another planet if compared to the first one. I played it on the intermediate difficulty and it still felt more difficult than the first one on Hard mode. Still, the game does have some flaws, the transition between Ellie's story and Abby's story in the middle is a tad chaotic, and it leaves you wondering maybe too much what's happening to Ellie, Dina and Tommy, when the game is focusing on something else entirely. Surely this is one of the things that increase the replay factor of this game. Also, speaking of flaws, I did see a couple of glitches and tiny bugs here and there throughout the playthrough, things that would have slipped away on any other game, but the quality of this game is so high that these little defects stick like a sore thumb. In conclusion, this game IS a masterpiece. It isn’t perfect, but no masterpiece is perfect. I highly recommend this game.
7104) Great gameplay & story. Super fun. Good message. Emotional ride. I got weepy eyed ngl.
7105) Loved the game as a whole,  went in with an open  mind  about abby but learning about her and why she did what she did its totally justified , not to mention it brings in a whole lot of emotion  early on which I loved it got me in because at first I wanted to see ellie destroy everything but again after learning the back story i really liked abbys character  im really hoping for a third  where possibly they could team up and a prequel !!i would love to see Tommy and Joel early years how they survived and met tess haha ,sorry for rambling but all in all the game was great ! 10/10  graphics  story and gamelan all 10s
7106) Loved it. From beginning to end it was a complete masterpiece. Don’t understand the hate
7107) I really have to say that I love this game. I don’t see the problems others have with it. To me this is a well written and well played game. Visually it is stunning probably the best looking game I have played. Naughty Dog deserves praise for putting this game together the way they did. Loved the first game and I have the same love for this one.
7108) rope to traverse terrain, a backstory extended for the Washington Liberation Front and Seraphites (who are at war with one another) as well as showcasing a new  extended gameplay f the ston,Ellie is fueled by hate, which will be a major theme within the story.[6] The game will also primarily be set in Seattle, Washington
7109) Awesome AAA game from a great studio.,Made in a way that leaves it to you, the player, on how you feel about the characters. Every character has their reasons for doing what they do, but how you feel about them is left to you. I loved it.
7110) Absolutley Amazing game! This game doesn't deserve the amount of hate it has received Anyone who reads this and is still hesitating about buying, if you've played the first game you need to play this regardless of spoilers because they're out of context you need to experience this game from start to finish
7111) Naughty Dog have set the bar for what video game storytelling should be. A perfect display of what this medium can be when expertly utilised. Nothing short of groundbreaking.
7112) This games story is garbage and it only serves to peddle PC bs. Can't believe they killed Joel and then Niel Druckman spit on him lol.
7113) That ending ruined the game for Sure. Man this game Made One of the Soest characters created abby.
7114) This game give me multiple strong feelings which only vedio game can offer. I think it is as good as part I.
7115) What a great game. If you have any doubts, just play it and disregard all the YouTube hate. I’m very glad I did.
7116) Rightly hailed as a masterpiece.,Look, it was clear that not everyone was going to like the story, it moves in a bold and stark direction but it’s real, visceral and painful and makes you feel it every inch of the way to the end.,This game is looonnng, but that playtime is absolutely needed to tell the whole story, please please don’t rely on the leaks or other people’s opinions to take the decision as to play or not.. You MUST play this game, even if in the end you don’t like it because even from a gameplay and design level alone it’s phenomenal.,This game will be marmite and that’s ok. Some of the best things ever done across media platforms as a whole divided their audience and this is one of them. Play it!
7117) The game is great, from it's visuals to its gameplay and story. Just because a bunch of people didn't like what happened doesn't make this a bad game, people are just being a bunch of ****
7118) I've got a lot to say about this game, but I'd rather say just one thing. I've been sitting and watching the ending scene with Ellie and Abby like Matthew McConaughey's character in that scene from Interstellar. I was in extreme cultural shock. Even the RDR2 ending didn't hit me that hard. Definitely one of the best stories I've ever seen in games.,Yes, the game has its issues with logical holes and gameplay, but the main idea and philosophy of the game are so much bigger, so I just didn't care about everything else.,There's neither Good nor Evil in real life. Just your choices and consequences, which may be good for some people and horrible for others at the same time. TLOU2 is not the first game representing this philosophy, but this is definitely one of the best realizations so far.,10/10 for me.,,I feel really sorry for all those people supporting that dirty trolling and behaving like that on socials and on Youtube. Just stop, guys. Most of you so upset by the game just because you all expected something similar to the first game, but it turned out to be different. I understand that we all have our favorite characters that we want to be alive forever. But good stories don't work quite like that (remember Game of Thrones for example). There's a much bigger picture in this game.,,ps,yes, I've registered here just to write this. can't look at all this madness going on around this game.,,peace
7119) 10 stars, THE BEST GAME OF 2020. The last of us part 2 open new quality of game, thx for "Only on PS".
7120) This game was amazing, sure it had some odd decisions but it played out brilliantly. Loved every second and going back on NewGame+ on Survivor difficulty to get the Platinum trophy
7121) 6 hours into the game, and i can say, dont listen to some kids that cant afford this game and are seeing some random parts of the game off YouTube and getting but hurt because of LGBT part of the game. It is fantastic, as good as 1st one. It is grim, sometimes too much, but still fantastic. Highly recommend.
7122) I got the game the day it came out and played it everyday until I finished it. The did break my heart and gave me a story I was not expecting, but in the end I love it. Game of the year contender for sure.
7123) Naughty Dog The Last of us Part 2 is a master piece and just the sequel we needed for the incredible world that Naughty Dog built for us. Not only are the graphics beautiful, the game play swift and smooth but the story is just as emotional as the first game. I loved playing Abbys part of the game and seeing her perspective of the story made me feel sorry for what happened to her, but I feel like it would've been better as a DLC as it seems to slow the flow and pace of the story at one of the most intense parts.,Overall it's an excellent game and a great way to end the PS4 generation. A must play for all.
7124) masterpiece.i think its a wonderful game. dont even understood why this game gots same hate around
7125) I got chance to get my hands on the game a day before the official release. And I must say that I've never experienced such an immerse and intense game ever before. I really expected a lot of this game and it just completely blew me away from the beginning. The game play is incredibly smooth, the story is really intense, well-written and caught me right away. Definitely a GOTY-candidate for me.
7126) This game is incredible and do not deserve this score. This game really shock my soul after finish the whole story
7127) An Honest 10/10. A game that makes you think a lot more about the consequences of your actions on a quest for revenge.,Gameplays is always fun and absolutely terrifying at points. The game is super long so if you give it a go make sure you haven’t got anything going on in your life for a week.
7128) The best thing I have played  in years. The graphics are great,the story is heartbreaking.
7129) It's still my favorite game even though some people weren't happy about it and stopped playing at the intro... We cannot judge a game until we finish it. the game takes 25 hours, the graphics, the storyline, the gameplay mechanics are insane, i loved this game from the beginning to the end. To be honest, If you wanna play this game, don't play it without thinking about the message behind it. Because the storyline may be disappointing when you don't actually understand the sense of it. So BUY IT NOW AND MAKE YOUR OWN OPINION! /!  SPOILER/! I saw a lots of people saying that this game was awful and bad... But you can't judge a game just because your favorite character is dead at the intro. I could understand some of you, but the game wasn't based on Joel so it's really sad that he died, i really liked him but i let a chance to the story... The game is literally 25 hours!!!
7130) This is more than a game and i would like to thank you for being able to experience it. Please play the game first before you rate it. We are all gamers and still want the same thing. This hatred deprives others of the opportunity to experience it and form their own opinion.
7131) A Masterpiece of Storytelling in Videogames. While the pacing is not optimal and some levels could have been shorter, overall this is the climax of Naughty Dog Games in terms of Gameplay, Enviromental Storytelling, Cinematography, Sound Design and Animations.,The Story is divise - you can hate it you can like it - but that does not take away from the quality of the game.
7132) One of the best games I've ever played... graphics are top notch, really good story. Don't believe the negative cry babies
7133) The game is simply incredible, incredible story, with new characters very well made, and old characters very well worked out, besides having good motivations for each character, the gameplay is very well done and realistic. The game is a roller coaster of emotions  and besides being heavy it is exciting and nobody would be prepared for this experience.
7134) The game plot disgusts me.I can hardly finish the game.,Compared with the previous work, the playing method has almost no essential change. Although the game is very attractive in terms of details, they do too badly in terms of core content.
7135) Very worthy. I don't understand those people who write bad reviews. You think about it. The story is told from two sides and each side can be understood and their motives understood. If you are single-celled and like a RAM rested on one side, it is better to just stay with your opinion and do not climb with your snot.
7136) Let me preface this with the fact I have never written a game review before, but I feel like with all the extremes of opinions people are taking with this game it deserved as many legitimate opinions as possible.,,SPOILER FREE,,Graphics and engine - 5/5,The visual aspect of this game is a triumph. It really is beautiful to look at. The environments built in this game take the core feel of the original and improve on it in every way.  I don’t think the PS4 is capable of producing anything that sustains this level of detail and beauty through gameplay and the “cutscenes”. I say “Cutscenes” because more akin to God of War these feel like an extension of the gameplay rather than the originals hard cuts to animated filmThe way objects interact is also a feat, with ropes of particular note.,,TLDR: The game is beautiful, and probably the most beautiful the PS4 is capable of.,,Gameplay - 4.5/5,The gameplay is the same as the first game with a few fleshed out aspects. There are more stealth options than there was, and they allow for a bit more variety on how to deal with situations. The gunplay is solid, an iterative improvement over the original game, but enough polish to make it fresh-ish. Most aspects of gameplay were used sparingly so didn’t get repetitive. I did feel like the gunplay sections were a little on the long side and over the course of my 25-hour playthrough it did get repetitive. Personally, id have like them a little shorter between cutscene sections and set pieces, but I’m sure some people would them complain it was just an interactive movie. Can’t win!,,TLDR: Much the same as game one, with added polish and mechanics. Sometimes repetitive due to game runtime.,,Story - 4.5/5,Ah, the story. The big divide. The controversy, the hatred.,,Me? I loved it. Don’t get me wrong, there are a couple of places I rolled my eyes, and things that happen that I wish didn’t, but life isn’t roses. The events cause me to have a profound emotional response, and to me, that’s the sign of a quality story, even if it wasn’t quite how I wished it would play out. The leaks were thorough, and accurate, but in so many 1 star reviews I don’t see any mention of the story aspects which aren’t mentioned in the leaks, which in my mind are some of the key parts that gel the story together. I get peoples frustration, and if you’ve actually played and still don’t like it then fair play absolutely. I get it, but so many people might see these negative reviews and not even give the game a chance, and that’s a shame. I think the direction they took for the second half of the game (where a lot of the hatred applies) was excellently pulled off. The game makes you more aware of the repercussions of actions and while its very blunt and on the nose, I think this is a good anecdote for real life. Whether that’s what you want in your video game or not is purely personal preference.,,TLDR: Some people hate it, I loved it. Its emotional, it’s a rollercoaster, and its (in my opinion) very well written even if its not what everybody wanted.,,Conclusion,I think the bombardment of 1 star reviews is unfair. It’s not for everyone and people are upset, but this game is a work of art. I hope that in time, when the world is a little less broken, and people are a little less toxic, more people will actually give this game a go and experience the story as it was designed to be experienced, not from some leaks.,,I personally loved the game. If you’re on the fence, give it a go, or wait till the inevitable price drops then have a go. It has its flaws, and it’s a very love it or hate it story it seems, so find out for yourself.,,Finally, if you are one of the people who hate it, refuse to play it, and reply to every tweet from Neil Druckmann or anyone else involved with the game or any tweet mentioning the game with absolute toxic hate. Go do the world a favour and grow up. You might be old enough to play the game physically, but I’m damn sure you’re not old enough mentally.
7137) Amazing. Terrifying. And story is incredible well done to naughty dog. Masterpiece.
7138) This game is a masterpiece. Period. But not for everybody.,First let me tell you what is undeniable good in the game. Then we can discuss the "bad" part. Graphics: It is really stunning, the lighting, textures, effects. You wont believe is still a PS4 game and pc master race boy is telling you.,Details: The detail on this game is gargantuan, Unreal. From every póster, every note, objects. You are not longer in a video game room pretending to be a real life place, you are in a real place inside a video game. Every place can tell you a story, each corner shows you how it became stuck in Time, but nature keep moving onward. I found  myself looking at every detail in every room and place. Ambientation: You go from breathtaking landscapes to nightmare fuel places, which they were once common crowded places now you have to explore abandoned in the dark. You can feel fear and danger on every step. No apocalyptic world feel so real like this game. Gameplay : Its brutal, dynamic and organic. Every move and Action your characters do has weight and reacts to her surroundings. I never felt safe or powerful, but always with the necesary tools to survive. Acting : yes Acting, since the characters has voice, facial expressions and body languaje, along with prime dialogue writing, sometimes you can forget that they are virtual characters. Now im going to talk about the controversial part. Story. So Minor Spoilers ahead and really helpfull clarifications.,First, there is no LGBTTIQ agenda. Yes Ellie is lesbian and Lev is transgender, not transexual. But these are character traits, a part of their whole and not a big label.,You are more into Ellie artístic and geek part, and Lev wisdom and courage and his grow Out of the Shell.,Second. If you want to play with the charming anti hero that kills every thing without remorse, this is not your game. Joel is no a playable character and the main characters are real people with flaws, but the will to survive. Third and  most important. These characters motivations are not clear as water and Their decitions will not be the same as yours, dont try to be rational, they are human beings in a apocalyptic World trying to do what is right or feel right to them.,That said, if you are mature enough to go along with a simple plot full of the best and the worst human feels, the misery of human nature and the consequences of your actions. Then the game is for you. The ending and the story as a whole will feel like your heart is ripped Out, then crushed  and craved in again by your guts. If a game can make you feel that, then is more than a game.
7139) Stunning. Ignore bad reviewers some of them even didn’t play game they just read leaked plot.,Gameplay, story, graphic, soundtrack all 10.
7140) This game is incredible, the characters and the story are of incredible complexity, so complex that this is a story with no sides there are no villains or heroes in The Last of Us 2, sure everybody likes Ellie and Joel but but Joel is not an innocent soul in the Last of Us, he kills and tortures people with no remorse or regret even people that didn’t deserve it, in The Last of Us 2 Ellie murders countless people in order to kill one person, while Abby did kill Joel, for the entirety of her gameplay she is risking her life to save others, I think that The Last of Us 2 is a story about consequences, Abby loses all her friends and the love of her life for killing Joel, Joel loses his life for murdering countless people and Ellie loses all she had forgoing after someone that spared her twice, I’m only 14 years old and understood this game a lot better than a bunch of adults that think that every story has a happy ending.
7141) THIS REVIEW CONTAINS NO SPOILERS!,,I am writing this review whilst listening to the end credits, which probably makes me one of the few who have actually finished the game before publishing a review.,,Breaking this down in segments firstly the game's graphics are probably the best I have ever seen if not top 5, everything you look at is just shockingly beautiful from start to finish, often found my self walking so I could take a look at everything.,,Acting/performances are just second to nun expect the same sort of quality as with the first game, simply outstanding.,,Gameplay and mechanics have massively improved allowing for much much more variety in attacking.,,NOW the elephant in the room.,The story, The last of us 2 tries to make some extremely bold moves right from the start and some work some don't, I think given the chance however you if you play the entire game your mind is changed..,The theme is Rage, revenge and forgiveness you are constantly second-guessing yourself throughout the game questioning if your actions are just.,The game really forces you to see both ends of the perspective, I do wish they allowed you to make some of the choices throughout as often you are forced to do some questionable actions.,I won't say any more than that.,,If you enjoyed the first game as far as I am concerned this is a must-play as you will get answers to some of those questions, we all had at the end of the first.,,I really wish the leaks didn't happen for this game as i feel people have jumped the gun read the story and not actually played the game itself.,,Naughty Dog has absolutely delivered a worthy sequel.
7142) its great anyways , TLOU1 was good and 2 is great as part1 , and great villians
7143) For the gays. Y'all **** can go screw off. Played through the game and it is great.
7144) I never thought a form of entertainment could make me so upset and emotional. I was connected to Joel from The Last of Us Part 1 and I in many ways agreed with everything he did. Questionable and unquestionable. When the game subverted my expectations and had me thinking that Joel would be okay, I was hit like a truck when he wasn’t. I love this game. It deserves better then the people who are trying to bring it down.
7145) This game raises the bar of what I thought possible in video games. The story, graphics, animations, overall technology are top notch. Do not listen to the homophobic trolls.
7146) Play the game, then decide your opinion. Don’t base if you play a game based off the Metacritic rating. This game is spectacular and an incredible technical feat, with an interesting story and greatly improved gameplay from the original, it’s a shame it has been review bombed.
7147) I get being pissed ellie didnt get her happy ending. Sp i understand the hate. I get them making us play as abby to beat up ellie was insane. But to take away from an amazing story and give it a low rating just cause youre pissed this isnt a disney movie. Ha
7148) (SPOILERS!!!) To be honest... I REALLY love the game... The way they mirror Ellie's story to Abby's and make you feel for both of them... Of course in the beginning when i was playing as Abby in Seattle i didn't like it at all. I was just mad at her for what she did, but playing more and more with her and seeing what gave her that kind of hate, i felt that for her as well... I am not saying i liked her more than Ellie, because Ellie is the character we all know and love. And i totally felt more for her with the things that happened in the beginning of the game with Joel's death of course (which really broke my heart)... But after playing through Ellie's part of the story made it a bit softer with every kill from the people of the group in Jackson, and by the time we were playing as Abby i hated her, but seeing the bigger picture and looking back after finishing the game i see why they both did what they did... So yeah... I LOVE THIS GAME... Everything is just so well crafted from how the story ties in to the game play... Just wow... Good job Naughty Dog!!
7149) I think this may be the best game I have ever played.  Don't listen to the haters, everything about this game is beautiful.
7150) I made an account just to say this. The complete **** reviews this game is getting by people who didn't even play the game is disgusting. I loved every moment I spent in this incredibly immersive world that Naughty Dog presented. If you support this game you are seen and an SJW. WHAT? what in this game is SJW? Same sex couples? If you are genuinely offended by that in 2020, then your life just be pretty fragile. First game to actually make me cry a bit since Uncharted 4. Didn't disappoint me at all. Kudos to you ND
7151) I legitimately feel sorry for the people who are review bombing only knowing a piece of this game without playing it entirely. You're supposed to feel angry about Joel, its part of the games progression to feel what Ellie feels and you're missing out on one of the most incredible games of all time by leaving it at your base level emotion. I've never felt such emotional change from a game. Play the game, get over your preconceived notions. Whatever you think you know, you don't. Joel and Ellie were NEVER heroes, theyre humans. And this game shows that humanity in a beautifully imperfect way.
7152) All i can say is that it is a true masterpiece. The characters and story all fantastic.,Thank you Naughty Dog
7153) So I am a huge fan of the original and absolutely loved the sequel. The main complaints I have read so far have LGBT issues. If you are a homophobe and didnt play the prequel then this maybe not for you. Also maybe try developing some tolerance its 2020 you bigot.,Next poor writing. Having someone close to the protagonist get killed is a weak way to trigger a revenge fuelled massacre... isnt it the only way? Literally a post apocalyptic world where people kill each other and people are crying over what to me was a very expected.,Enough about the hate.,Graphically its amazing, great visuals and smooth textures. Controls a lot smoother than the first one and the combat feels a lot more fluid.,Thr story is very well done, its heart breaking and heart warming all at in one. It creates drama and tension, makes you worry for the characters and even challenge your beliefs about well established characters. It is one of the most humanising games I have seen and really shows the effect of the characters choices.,All I can say is go in with an open mind, it is different from the first but not in a bad way. This deserved a 10 and naughty dog deserves more praise than its getting. Sadly in todays world people cant think laterally and when something doesnt go their way they jump on their keyboard and slam the hard work that was put in rather than trying to understand the message of the game.
7154) It was something very different from the Part 1, but it was unforgettable. It’s adult game with adult screenplay. It’s unique game that I’ve never played before and I’ve never felt such complicated and different emotions to characters. Gameplay 10/10. I can’t even imagine how you guys made it. It’s a giant work and I know that many of you sacrificed a lot to create this masterpiece. Thank you Naughty Dog, for this amazing experience.
7155) It's not a game for people who get nothing out of stories with unconventional characters. The story is something fresh. The ending is not as happy as a lot of people might want it, but it makes sense, cause Ellie gets what she deserves for throwing away her family and the life she had to hunt Abbey down. It feels a bit out of control, cause you can't really make a decision yourself, but that is also a good thing, cause it shows, how the death of a close character can change you for worse. If you don't like a game, that doesn't let you make most decisions yourself, don't play it. If you like an amazing and overarching story and also good story telling, feel free to try this game. It really reflects what loss causes for a lot of people and how it leads you to make decisions that are driven by anger and grief. And that is what this game teaches you. And for anyone hating the ending: a game doesn't have to have a 100% happy ending. Ellie gets what she deserves for leaving Dina and JJ to hunt down Abbey. And I think a lot of people are way too fastidious when it comes to happy endings and how they demand at least 50% happiness for a character. The game shows a sad truth about life: You don't allways get what you want, and not everything ends happy. Cause fu*king up and the cause of that happens in real life. And this is what naughty dog did so good in this game. Tell a realistic character development and a reasonable story.
7156) Best game since Witcher 3. Beautiful graphics, great acting and compelling script with amazing characters.
7157) Ok its the 23rd, game was Released on the 19th and i have put around 8 hours in each day to finish it, Thats hard gaming, so dont know how people beat me to a review especially when you can see some of the levelling trophies are still at 0.1% rarity, Plus theres their take on it, It dont add up, Sorry but it dont, take what happened in the game too much talk about Gender politics in reviews when the Game just skimmed on it ! These reviewers just aint played it, They took a knee jerk reaction and never pressed on, Their loss and what a Loss, So down to the game, All i got to say its an emotional roller coaster ! no Scrap that, an emotional space rocket to mars and back ! Wow, Its frigging Awesome, I’ve been gaming since the pong days in the 70s and trust me, this Games cutting edge, Sending you on a barrage of emotion and tingling your morales to oblivion, makes you think there’s consequences to my actions even when Gaming, It’s utterly epic i am in awe of this Game and in all honesty didn’t think they’d come close to the Original which in my opinion was the best game ever produced, but boy, they knocked it outa the Park ! Game play is great with so many accessible features for the impaired, They thought of Everything , Well done Naughty Dog in Dragging in dragging us all Kicking & Screaming into 2020 and beyond, 10/10 for  me
7158) I don't usually listen to the voices that say everything is terrible, and whine about how someone can ruin "Their" game when nothing that game companies create belong to them.,,And honestly I can understand why some people might be sour on this game.,,But it's not a zero, it's so far from a zero.,,The graphics are gorgeous, the combat is fluid, the atmosphere is tense and engaging. The story isn't even the worst thing ever. I can totally buy this is how the story pans out.,,This game is good, for me it was great, like the original last of us there is no happy end, and everything is finished but it feels empty, the same feeling I had after the first game.,,I very much enjoy this game, if you aren't sure you're going to like this game I recommend you just wait and buy it when the price drops.
7159) perfect game, perfect so perfect.,I think is the best game to I play but the haters dont like this game because the downgrade to give naughtydog of ps4 is not very special and the grafics that recive this game is no 0erfect. I think ps 5
7160) Naughty Dog knew it was a risky approach, but, in my opinion, this risk paid off. They did that haven't been done before. They wanted to create a real world where you can see no heroes and no villains, just people who try to survive and their bad decisions. Although, this game brought me a lot of tears and pain, I wouldn't have it any other way. This approach is very painful, but it's what makes it brilliant. Apart from the story, I can't believe how real this game looks. The graphics are just on point, physics don't even look like animations, all those new mechanics are amazing. The Last Of Us was always my second favorite game, but after the sequel it definitely goes to the top spot. Bravo, Naughty Dog, don't let those hate reviews scare you, do what you believe in. You've done an amazing massive job, hope to see and play more of your fantastic work soon!
7161) GOTY 2020!!!,I was disappointed when I read and saw the leaks!,It was very connected to the first story, and for me TLOUS was Joel.,....,in the first hours of the game I was disappointed with what I was seeing but thankfully I continued to play, it is without a doubt the best game I played for now!!! ( Not the best gameplay or performance ) yeah 30fps
7162) I give 8 points for the game, cause I think it's really good, and 2 for all the undeserved hate it's receiving.
7163) Genuinely one of the best games I've ever played. Perfect in every aspect. I found myself both with an ear-to-ear smile and heartbroken sobbing. This is art.
7164) The game overall imo is honestly incredible, GOTY. In My top 5 games of all time that I’ve played
7165) I honestly don't understand the people who rate this second part of The last Of US as the worst games of the year
7166) i have waited this game for years and,finally i played and it was so,great time for me. back in time of former game. the ending of last of us 1 gave so much deep impression,and i always imagined a sequel story about Joel and Ellie. after i finished last of us part 2 i feel like i just watched what i just wanted to see,first, graphics and motion is unbelievable and i have no idea how they can developed this.,to me visual of this game js most enjoyable thing.,second, the world of last of us part 2 is so amazing and it matched with last of us part 1 well,there is no awkward things. world is well expanded and new characters and new factions are fascinating.,and i know there are many negative opinions for this game. but i believe many of those based on political thought. i haven’t found any critical flaw of this game,almost everything was so smooth for me. thank you for let me leave my review here and sorry for my poor language skill. i just wanted to express my thought about this game. thank you.
7167) Please just play through it. I promise, if you can go in with an OPEN MIND, you will understand what the game is about. Anyone who already has decided what to think will be disappointed.
7168) I don't know about the other, but I liked this game. Graphics - Amazing,Story - interesting,Game mechanics - beautiful.
7169) What a game,the story is good but the gameplay its awesome thank you naughty dog
7170) Great game. I have spent 3 days on TLOU2. I wanted finish this game to know how all ends and it the same time I wanted this game to never end. The end of the game leaves you with your thoughts and you just sit and think "What developers wanted to say?"
7171) The best game ever and the game of the year . My 30 hrs of my life the other you can play minecraft and fortnite ..
7172) This game is hard, it ask so much of the player, I get why people could hate it, it provokes you to hate, to feel empty and full of rage. The story has some problems and I still doubt they chose the best way to tell the story some parts are insufferable to play through but if you give it a chance and heard what it's trying to say it is 100% worth it . They way I see the story if you care for the characters it could unfold in two ways 1. You feel the hate, emptiness and sorrow or 2. You feel the hate sorrow and final redemption letting go. It is an impactful story. Apart from that everything is excellent the gameplay is intense, the music is awesome, and every aspect of the game is polish. In my opinion truly a masterpiece.
7173) I'm verry sorry for the bad valutation of this game when i play this game i edit my valutation.
7174) I think it's amazing how the game can bring up the question of how far you go for revenge
7175) Simple and short review Story:8/10 Graphics 10/10,Mechanics: while frustrating at times Allow you to feel in control10/10 Sequel10/10
7176) The best game I've played in years, stop reading spoilers, stop reading leaks, stop reading reviews. PLAY. THE. GAME.
7177) Another fantastic game by Naughty Dog. Storytelling not as good as the first but still 10/10 for me.
7178) Just perfect, very exciting. One of the few games that gives the feeling of experiencing that reality
7179) I don’t get the hate this game is getting.  It’s a masterpiece as a video game. The point of the first two hours is to give you trauma and how to start your path in the road of vengeance. At the end of the game,the whole point is to break the path of revenge and have a little empathy. Hopefully people now giving reviews are just doing an instant reaction to the trauma and finish and reflect on the game after.
7180) Amazing gameplay and visuals, big step up from the original. Honestly incredible what Naughty Dog has been able to deliver on the PS4. Worth a play through for sure
7181) Masterpiece! Going from story all the way to small details that you can find while traversing the abandoned post apocalyptic streets it has all been carefully crafted to deliver a great experience
7182) One of the best game I ever played!!... Graphics are off the charts, the gameplay is great, the same goes for the music and sound altogether. In my opinion story is really good and the meaning behind it too...,I dont really understand the low rankings, because even if you dont like story why the f**k rank it 0-4? Well I dont care really...
7183) Masterpiece, through and through. Will stick with me for years to come. My single problem with it is pacing when playing as Ellie in some parts, especially when she’s alone, but even that is not enough to detract me from this beautiful story, beautiful gameplay, beautiful set design. Everything is amazing. Thank you, Naughty Dog.
7184) Obviously the game is not for everyone. I’ve enjoyed it so far. Although it doesn’t answer the questions I was expecting I still considered it a good game.
7185) A masterpiece that deserves more respect. The hate is unexplainable even if you feel negative thoughts while playing.
7186) In the end of game I just want cry its very emotional final ...,Game is a masterpiece. you will see later
7187) Great character study on what revenge does when a person becomes filled with hate
7188) There are haters and there are admirers of this game! I spent 35 hrs playing campaign! The story is great, but at the end you feel exhausted, emotionally turned out... For me this is a masterpiece and it ends the story of Elly... and Joel. Thank you, Naughty Dog! Love this game!
7189) The Last of Us Part II is a worthy successor to the original. It’s elevated gameplay mechanics and brutal narrative further reinforces the dark world these characters inhabit. Each action sequence can leave you making it though by the skin of your teeth. Characters in Part II are richer than they were in the first installment. By the time credits rolled I was invested in every single person that Naughty Dog presented to us. Naughty Dog was not afraid to make difficult decisions when shaping this story and it is incredibly impactful. Part II is a heartbreaking tale, but one that resonates long after the journey is over.
7190) The first TLOU always had been my favorite game of all time. Now, TLOU2 got the place. That’s enough.
7191) Don't listen to the Xbox fu$& boys. They are just pissed off they haven’t had a good exclusive title in years. Hahaha suck it.
7192) good game, everyone should play it, maybe is not better than the first one, but that was obviously a complicated task. sincerily a must play. it accomplished the objective of being entertain, for the time, and the music and sound effects on surround just awesome as the graphics. hope a remastered for ps5.
7193) BEST Game in da world **** Somehow, always haters gonna hate. Dont waste ur time traying to explain It. Just enjoy it.
7194) This game made me cry for hours, it's really exciting how it moves with you, amazing story, can't wait fof part 3
7195) This game is incredible, never have I seen such a salty set of fans.. stop review bombing this if you haven't even played the full thing
7196) part two is a great continuation, showing the story of Ellie in the search for revenge, thinking she is the best way, but losing everything in the end, it is a sad but real story. I've been a fan since the last of us 1, I played several times, I found part two infinitely superior in all aspects!
7197) Is an injustice that people that hasnt played the game gives **** reviews, metacritic needs to add more control to his system
7198) Such an amazing take on a revenge story. Tragic, beautiful and powerful. It never ceased to amaze me. Every negative review I've seen seems to either come from some bigot, someone who hasn't played the game but doesn't like what the leaks said, or someone who simply didn't like the game and labels it as "trash writing" or "bad story" with little explanation. Don't trust the mob hate mentality, play this amazing and unique game.
7199) An interesting second chapter to follow up what is one of my favorite games of all time. All of the characters were compelling and kept me interested, even as the story tool dark twist and turns.
7200) Have to play it with open mind and I think the ending is kinda beautiful for me and looks real
7201) Finished the game recently and have to say that this game is amazing from start to finish. I get why Neil Druckmam tried to do here and it worked.
7202) Simply extraordinary, deep story, interesting characters, groundbraking graphics and great combat. It's almost a perfect improvement over it's predecessor, some people may hate, but I assure, nobody is ready for this experience, that's until now, for me, the strongest competitor for GOTY, just saying.
7203) This game left me speechless. Incredible work of art.,It’s sad to see all this zeroes from people, who haven’t even tried to appreciate this stunning achievement in video games. Huge love to all the people behind this game.
7204) No other game have told a story like this one did. A story that could have happened in real life. There is no real villain or hero. Every one has his motives for doing stuff. People are so used to the cliche that they don't want anything different than that.
7205) This is just **** awesome!!!!!!!,I enjoyed every moment of the game. The plot is touching in places. And sometimes shocking. The gameplay of the game is very pleasing. All the mechanics are honed and polished. Graphic content so pleased. Great attention to detail and effects is very pleasing. The locations are very well thought out and implemented.  I don't want any spoilers. So I will say that the plot is just a bomb. And very serious. The game is clearly not for children. And also separately pleased with a special level of cruelty. ........................ ..................... .....................
7206) This is a masterpiece! The best game ever! Must play game! 12 of 10 rate! Thanks Naughty dog!
7207) A story about vengeance driven by guilt because the person whom she'd known for years and eventually grew closer to was killed infront of her. And she never even got the chance to thank him for giving her a second life or even to forgive him personally because of the secret in the past. Till she accepted the fact that whatever she may do, he is now a part of her memories and will never come back...,All in all, the question of the story stands,"What would you do?"
7208) Seriously I don’t get it why people are trolling this game...It is honestly a freaking masterpiece..even better than the prequel...This game totally deserves that 95 metascore...
7209) one of the most emotional games in the last half of the year, before that there was a game from Kojima and rdr2. The plot is interesting, the gameplay is super, and the graphics even on ps4 look amazingly beautiful.
7210) I have no idea why everyone is trashing on this game I found everything about it to be exceptional. From the gameplay the music and especially the story,it goes in a different direction that no one was expecting and it benefits from that for not being too cliche
7211) Cannot be happier with a game showing LGBT+ representation. Awesome and thank you!
7212) I don’t understand why people underestimate so much. due to plot twists? this is stupid
7213) This is not just a game. This is a incredible storm across our head, our heart, our stomach. Naughty Dog has pushed realism to its limits, I'm still awed by the fact that this game run on a PS4.,Although the world is desolate and abandoned, it has never been so alive, teeming with detail and near-perfect beauty. The development of the characters, in terms of modeling, animation and personality, is simply amazing. I feel like I could meet them around the corner of my street, and hang on with them a little while. About the story, don't be fooled by haters or by the leaks, just play the game, feel it by yourself and keep your faith in Naughty Dog. It will make you uncomfortable and angry sometimes, but in the end, you'll feel closer to Ellie than ever. It's a masterpiece of our generation, and those to come.
7214) Another naughty dog masterpiece. The amazing story telling to the incredible acting from ashley, troy and Laura. You have created another goty if  not something greater
7215) Fantastic game with a gritty and intense story. Character arcs developed really well. Combat is intense and makes you really think about your choices before making them.  Visuals are absolutely fantastic.  The music and ambience ties it all together. Love it!
7216) The graphics, gameplay, story, characters and sound are just to AMAZING! 11/10!
7217) Hello fellow button mashers. Can't get enough of this game. Loved the first one and the second is just as good if not better. I know you have herd things that people are saying oh I can't believe you did that? Why would you ruin such a story? Don't worry about any of that and think about all the reaction on this. If these moments didn't cause you a reaction. What kind of game would you be playing? The first game caught you. So would you want everything in this one to be easy and everyone lives happily ever after? Would Joel have a relationship with Ellie is Sarah didn't die. Tramatic events in this game has made it what it is today. If we don't feel.  How do we enjoy? Thank you everyone at naughty dog for such an amazing game.
7218) The game is just a AMAZING, the plot is very good, but is a hard pill to swallow, but is amazing and has a great message
7219) A very ambitious piece of work from one of the best companies in the gaming business.,,It takes gameplay elements from the first game, adds some of Uncharted 4's flair and raises them both to a new level of realistic movement and combat.,The motion capture, voice acting, audio and scripted action  are exactly what you've come to expect from a Naughty Dog title.,,Graphics are up there with the best of this generation. Weather elements are particularly well done and really help realise the hostile atmosphere they were going for. Enemy's are highly detailed and this makes the combat even more brutal than the first game.,,The story seems to have divided opinion but on closer inspection, this is clearly salty gamers who haven't played the game, but read the spoilers and are trying to make their 0 star review seem realistic. On top of this you have the homo-phobic, trans-phobic community desperately trying to make this game fail for having a muscular woman and a gay woman as the playable characters.,,There is absolutely no same minded person who would play this and give it a 0, especially if as they say, the story is the only part they hated. Just like any sane fan of the first game knows Joel wasn't a hero. Even if you genuinely hated the story twists, the other aspects of the game would make it at least a 6/10. But that doesn't drag the score down enough - so 0 star reviews it is!,,My personal take on the story -  I feel like the message would have worked better if Ellie had gone through with the killing.,She'd still have lost her fingers and with it her last link to Joel - thus showing her that revenge won't change the past and she lost everything she still had chasing it.,,I also felt it was a genius twist to force us to pay as the antagonist. Seeing things from her perspective, learning about her own good and bad traits, and her motivation for wanting to find and murder Joel.,We also see Abby once again rescued by a sworn enemy, but instead this time she vows to help them in any way possible. Clearly showing that her thirst for revenge has left her questioning her own moral choices and needing to redeem herself with a selfless act.,,This even caused some players to end up rooting for Abby by the end. Clearly not the terrible story line some try and pretend it is.
7220) The greatest game ever created I don’t have exact words to explain how I feel about the game
7221) One of the best games i have ever played. Simply a must have game for this generation of consoles
7222) The last of us 2 is a great game that sadly got hated on because of Joel’s death and by trolls who reviewed 3 hours after the game came out. I have mixed feelings about abbys chapter it was ok but the rest of this game is amazing to the gameplay to the emotion the graphics the songs and much more and I’ll admit it I cried once or twice. Thank you for a great game!
7223) Ok, my expectations for this game were very high, and there's a lot to say, but I will keep this short.,The gameplay is very similar to the first game, but it is tense and it is nerve wracking. I played on Moderate difficulty and it was never too easy or too difficult, but I had to either scavenge for ammo or be very stealthy if I wanted to have a fighting chance.,The sound design is perfect. No more to say. Play this game with headphones on.,Same goes for graphics, absolutely no complaint in that department.,Now the story seems to be the thing most negative reviews focus on, so hear this. This game is very dark. It is by no means a feel good game, and it never claims or tries to be. It will make you feel sad, it will make you feel very angry, and it will make you fell confused at times. This is not some brainless story where the hero is always right and the villain is always wrong, and hero beats villain and lives happily ever after. This game deals with morality, forgiveness, anger, and regret. I will say it again, it is not supposed to make you feel happy. You are not supposed to like all the characters, they are not perfect people and they do very bad things, but also some very good things. The ending is a lot like the ending of an art movie, it leaves a lot of things for you to think about and debate with yourself about. I will say this once more and stop writing. It is not meant to make you happy and satisfied. If this game makes you talk and debate about it, then it probably made you feel how the devs wanted you to. And I think that is absolutely perfect.,Thanks for reading my review :)
7224) I loved how they show the story from both side you can't hate both side because they have different reasons and backstory,The character development was brilliant who tough and bad they start and with the things that they do effect there personality and make them softer .. I loved the game
7225) This is a best game I ever play. It’s brutal, adult, interesting and very realistic. Don’t be a YouTube guys who never played it and writing negative rates.
7226) I liked the first game, and the second one is cool too, so any game deserve 0 points.
7227) Such a fantastic story with vastly improved gameplay from the first. Expect to be a broken person by the end.
7228) This game is an improvement and natural progression from its predecessor in everyday. This is hands down the greatest story I have ever played through. It is unapologetic, real and beautiful. This game is an examination of morality, relationship and the feelings that motivate drastic action. I am in love with everything about this game down to the last drop. Such an important and wonderful game for a society that can sometimes be too scared to starr our issues in the face. Thank you for creating such a beautiful game.
7229) amazing video game... naughty dog made a masterpiece again but in a different history. I love how they can create wonderful history.
7230) I have never written a review on metacritic before, but due to this game's controversy, and it being review bombed, I feel like I should write one now that I finished it. I'm no writer, so I'm sorry if my review isn't particularly well written.,It took me around 25 hours to finish it, spending a lot of time exploring as much as I could.,,The short, spoiler free review is:,,The game is amazing! It's hard to play like some movies are hard to watch. It's uncomfortable, it kept me on the edge of my seat for most of it and I really love it.,Play if for yourself, borrow a copy if you are afraid you might not like it, but I can't imagine someone not liking it. Yes, things happened in the story that made me angry and sad, but a good story doesn't only have things the audience wants.,I truly believe this game deserves a 10, but I understand not everyone will agree with me. That being said, I can't imagine anyone giving this game less than a 6. A 6 would be the score if the person absolutely hates cinematic and/or survival games, but if you hate this kind of games then you shouldn't be playing it.,,The longer, with some spoilers review follows (SPOILERS!! YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED),,I avoided any spoilers before playing the game. Even trying to avoid them I knew people were pissed because the antagonist is trans (although I can't understand why that's a reason for someone to be pissed) but I didn't know any details. Well, the game really does have a trans character, but it is not the antagonist like people assumed. People though Abby was trans, but she is just really buffed. There is another character that is trans, I really enjoyed his journey, but now I wonder if there were two separate leaks, one saying there is a trans character and another showing Abby with the gold club and people just made a wrong assumption.,,Anyway, I really enjoyed the way the story is structured. It uses it's two protagonists to show the player the same events through different lenses. I hated a character in the beginning, then later loved them because I got to see things in a different way. I got really pissed at characters I've always loved, but I "forgave" then once they found redemption. Everyone is the hero on their own story.,,The first game had some "nice" and "light" moments (like the giraffes), and this one does too, but on this game those moments are mostly flashbacks and memories. The present of the protagonists sucks most of the time, they are always under pressure, fighting for their and for their loved ones lives.,,The game is good I get why some people are angry even after playing it, hell I'm angry at the game, but It's still really good, it's supposed to make you angry, it reminds us that everyone has their own story.
7231) Wonderful story driven experience that delivers exactly what the fans of the series wanted.
7232) It's very good. Graphics and animations are amazing. I had no problem with the story, most people rating this game 0 have not actually played or owned. the game. If you liked the 1st one, you'll love playing this too.
7233) Best game of the generation PS4/XONE ? YES, GOTY, NOW!! WONDERFUL ART, I FINISHED THE GAME 3 HOURS AGO AND I'M STILL OUT OF BREATH, JUST PLAY IT!!!
7234) Best game I’ve ever seen or played. Wish Xbox would make something like this.
7235) It is an Awesome game, all in the game is Fantastic, the trama, the gameplay, and the soundtrack are unique.
7236) Best game on the ps4, graphics are 10, gameplay is 10, attention to details is 10, plot is obviously 10
7237) The Last Of Us Part 2 was such an amazing game with a uniquely epic storyline that shares it's ups and downs in a good way because not only that the story was filled with happy, sad, shocking, tense, and a variety of other emotional moments. But it was performed in a way that all fans are supposed to feel on purpose and to make this as spoiler-free as possible without giving away too much. Here are my pros and cons of what I think of this game as a whole,,Pros:,,1.) The gameplay is nice, fluid, and immersive to play,,2.) Graphics are nicely detailed and cinematically visual/appealing,,3.) Sound designs are amazing,,4.) The story is epic and unique in a way that you thought you could never feel with such a high variety of emotions,,5.) Acting is phenomenal and highly underrated,,Cons:,,1.) Part of the narratives in the story could've been changed for a better outcome,,2.) Some character developments needed some slight improvements,,Verdict: The Last Of Us Part 2 is a great game and originally I was gonna give this a 10 or 9 but with the story narratives making me feel bittersweet in some ways and thinking of what direction should the franchise go next if a Last Of Us Part 3 were to be made next in the future. Overall I give The Last Of Us Part 2 an 8/10 simply because of the fact that I still had fun playing this game and the experience that I had with the story was really interesting to see. The last thing I want to mention is that for this review on Metacritic I'm gonna put the score as a 10/10 since I want to be generous to show my support for the game and even though my actual rating is still an 8/10 for me but in my opinion, I thought this felt right to do.  :)
7238) Beautiful, challenging, tragic. Challenges the character's and player's empathy in ways I've never seen in a videogame before.
7239) Honestly I’ve read some of the reviews and I don’t know what game you guys played or if you even played it but this game was amazing  from story, to characters development, to environment, and engagements I highly recommend this game
7240) Love this game. The story is awesome. This game is the best graphics on PS4. Gameplay is great. It will be my GOTY.
7241) Story 9/10,Game-play - 8/10,Graphics - 10/10,World is brutal, history is intresting but  have sad moments.
7242) Best game! art. It starts where the previous one ends, it spins everything with great skill, the graphics are amazing, the gameplay of 10, in short, the best game of the generation
7243) Great game, the story is rough and that's why so many people didn't like it I guess. The graphics are amazing and the game-play is great. To appreciate the game you need to take a step back and think of the story naughty dogs is giving us. I loved it even if the ending can be frustrating for some people. Not everything goes as planned and not everyone gets happy ending! that's life ;)
7244) Perfect!    Perfect.    And Perfect!
7245) Its a great Game with excellent graphics, a deep story to tell, and excellent dynamics
7246) I was trying to sneak up on a enemy and just before i got to them they started turning around. Realizing I wouldn't make it to them before they saw me I full on sprinted and killed them with a violent strike from my baseball bat. The noise caused a nearby patrol member to start shooting at me as i ducked behind the trunk of a nearby car. The enemy then took cover at the front of the car whilst my partner joined me at the trunk. Now being as this car was next to a wall i couldn't flank them to take a shot. So being boxed in i decided i'm just gonna jump on top of the car and rush them, honestly wasn't sure it was gonna work. So i mount the car and run towards them then Ellie straight up flying kicks this dude in the face and while he's still reeling she crushes his skull with her bat.,This is honestly the best combat AI i have ever experienced in a game.  Every encounter is different depending on surroundings and  dynamics. It really shines.  I loved the first games story but i wasn't very impressed with the gameplay.  This gameplay feels fast, frantic, desperate and realistic in all the best ways. Straight up loving it.
7247) This game is a masterpiece and people who don’t see that must be very blind.
7248) People are destroying this game without even playing  it, just because of a few spoiler. Do I prefer this one? No, the first game was better in terms of storytelling.,But this one is awesome, we are looking at the other side of the story. Playing as Ellie and Joel makes us believe that they’re the good guys. Long story short: in TLOU world there are no good or bad guys, everyone just tries to survive. Joel and Ellie killed a lot of innocent people, just like Abby’s father. We are seeing the story on another perspective.,Did I like watching Joel die that way? No, of course. I cried my eyes out because I loved his character, but saying he deserved to die in a better way is far from the truth. He is not a hero, he is a survivor. We would’ve liked to see him die in a better way just because we grow closer to his character in the first game. Secondly, how can you say the gameplay didn’t improve? And don’t let me talk about the graphic, amazing.,So, in conclusion, I understand that you’re shocked because of Joel’s death, I understand you seek revenge towards Abby, but in my opinion Ellie did what was right, she stopped the cycle of violence. I liked also the reference to the first game, Ellie saying to Sam that what scares the most is ending up alone.. that’s the only thing I would change.,I think she deserves a happy ending with Dina and their son. She’s been through too much sh*t to be alone, again. Maybe ND could make a DLC or something.
7249) Easily the best game I've played in a very long time. A true masterpiece in interactive entertainment and storytelling. I cannot recommend this game highly enough!
7250) If the first game was like playing a hollywood-style movie then this one is a great drama TV-series in 3 seasons. Some games are just games and enjoyable fun ride, and some games are art. This one is art. You may not like it, but it still will have a thoroughly written characters, graphics, music, actor's work, combat physics and characters chemistry that will leave you in awe. This story is unique. It leaves you empty in the end, you just sitting there and looking at the titles. But it is a good empty, a lot to think about, and a lot to discuss. It makes you grow as a human. It makes you turn on your brain.
7251) the game is absolutely perfect in the way we can continue the best game ever, so there’s no words in fact to express all the beauty of this, you must just play both parts and have the best gameplay experience in your life
7252) An emotional and dark story the whole way through, showing the effects of seeking revenge. The game might not be for everyone, but I personally loved it.
7253) An absolute amazing game. You thought one was good, well two is even better! The graphics are insane, the story telling is beautiful. Honestly 10/10 game!
7254) In my opinion it is a good game. It has its good things as its bad things. One of the good things that I can highlight are the gameplay, the way to target artificial intelligence, among others. The graphics look great. Other things that I can highlight are the small details that nauthy dog gives that her games, this is not far behind, each stage, each climate were surely created down to the smallest detail. Now I will talk about history. Let's start at the beginning. It is quite good that they show the environment in which the characters live and show their respective indifferences. Ellie looks more mature but is still a teenager. Dina (her love interest) is very well added, since the dlc of the first game Ellie's sexuality is demonstrated. I have many more things to say but I really don't remember right now. Now I will say the bad or regular things. I start with the first most important death in the game, Joel's, considering that he is no longer the same as before and because not because he is the protagonist he has to be invincible, but even so they could implement this fact in the middle of the game (for example) even so what happened makes the players want to take revenge with all their forces. Another thing I didn't like too much was how much we used Abby. I know that somehow they try to explain the other side of the coin, but a lot of people already bored playing with the antagonist so much. Now I will talk about the deaths. To be honest I liked the deaths of Abby's friends, except for the pregnant girl, that touched me a little. Jessi's death was shocking, they didn't even give us time to say goodbye. I didn't like that much. Regarding the end, I would have loved that we could kill Abby or at least have been bitten by an infected person and die. In the end when Ellie leaves the guitar alone it seems to me that it is like a way to forgive Joel. In my opinion it was a great game, yes, not for any type of public. By the way, if I wrote something that doesn't make sense it's the Google translator's fault.
7255) What an amazing game! The narrative is perfect. The story is original. The graphics are top notch. The soundtrack is one time. Just buy it and play the hell out of it!
7256) The idea of this story was crazy. I just loved how brave they were to tell this story. Specially this way. I haven't seen a game doing this before. Just wow. You won't know how big of a game this is until you play it and see the care that has been put to making this game. ND really put all they had in this. It'll be too hard for them to top this. Part I and II sit together as my best experiences in life. The best way to get the full experience is to play Part I and Ii together to get the message.,,Other aspects like gameplay and graphics and sound design are top notch too. Classic Naughty Dog. And the music... you just to listen to them for yourselves.
7257) For the bad review without playing the game complete real note for me is 9 but i give a 10,Id you are a really fan abut the world characters and history od the game and the gamestyle o the first chapter this second part it that but better and more (homopobic people other user haters or people how cant understand the history of the game and the characters)
7258) This game is AWESOME in every way. There is nothing I would change except for close combat because Ellie feels a little too weak and dodging is not my style but except that, it is a masterpiece and most people who gave it a low score didn’t play it.
7259) Gameplay and graphics are awsome and story is good too.,Yes i agree we all wanted to see diffrent storyline but this storyline was not bad instead we can feel revenge this storyline
7260) The graphics are stunning, the story is gripping, dark and tense and the gameplay is perfect. I would highly recommend this game.
7261) Stunning and conceptually challenging. The narrative takes on a mature and sobering guise whilst still delivering some tense and frightening moments. This game will be being discussed for some time to come.
7262) People are idiots and just following a trend, its a fantastic game with an incredible story with gorgeous environments and incredible gameplay. It might not be your cup of tea if you don't enjoy games with a good narrative or espionage kind of gameplay at times but if you genuinely enjoyed the 1st game youll enjoy this one just as much or maybe more.
7263) Wow...I finished it this morning and I can't stop thinking about it.I've never been this invested and immersed in a game before, I can barely find my words.,The gameplay formula from the first game is much improved and the new mechanics, even if they seem simple, add a lot especially for stealth.Some sections from the second half of the game are peak survival-horror experiences.,The visuals are out of this world and envoirments are huge with an insane attention to details.Every few minutes I had to stop and take the view in, not to mention how every place is packed with notes/items that tell stories of the people who once lived there.,I was initially dissapointed with the story after reading all the leaks and the ending and even considered cancelling my preorder, but I couldn't because I pre-downloaded it, so I went into it expecting a great game with a terrible story.I was very, very wrong.Once I saw how everything unfolds I was blown away, the story is great, characters are extremly well written and even the ending, wich to me seemed irredeemable, turned out to be amazing.I'm never trusting leaks ever again, I can't believe I almost didn't play this.,To me this is a masterpiece that surpasses the first game in every aspect, and it's without a shadow of a doubt my game of the generation.
7264) Probably one of the best games I’ve ever played. They really knocked it out of the park with this one. Kudos!
7265) Just finished the game. And I have to say its probably the best game I have played in my entire life. I never felt so uneasy, so immersed before.,Thank you Naughty Dog
7266) So Damm good don't care what anybody say's now this days no body is happy I really enjoyed this game and going to play it again game of the year .
7267) Hands down one of the most emotional and gut wrenching game I ha e ever played. Lots of people give it a bad rating because lots of  characters end up dying. I think this game is a fresh air, were Naughty Dog wasn't afraid to pull any punches.  This game is just so raw and just an amazing work of art. The combat interactions are so realistic, you sometimes feel a sense of stress when playing. And don't get me started on the horror portion of the game around 3/4 of the game. The game really shows an eye for an eye can make the whole world blind. Dont be to quick to judge the game, follow through and at the end you won't regret playing the game. Just heads up, not every story ends with a happy ending, please keep that in mind.
7268) I loved the game ,people are just mad because it's not fan service.,It's a great story ,just not a happy one.
7269) Masterpiece every way. If you are a conservator person, this game not for you.
7270) When I finished this game I was mentally exhausted.  I have never been emotionally invested in a game as I have this one.  The story was great, not as great as the original in my opinion but still great.  Maybe because it was much more complicated, the original was much simpler compared to this sequel.  No one actually "wins".  This story is much darker.  Also, the jump scares were a lot of fun and stressful at the same time.  Some of the combat encounters were incredibly intense, especially if your playstyle is stealth.  This game is one of the best games I have ever played and I'm 47.  I've played games all my life and this one easily makes top 5, possibly top 3.
7271) Good gamplay, looks and sounds good, violent, great storytelling. I would give it a 9 but since the game isn't on xbox i give it a 10. F*ck halo, **** sh*ts of war.
7272) All that I have written is purely my opinion.,,Well, let's get started. Many people are currently negative about several things: LGBT propaganda, Joel's death, and Abby's muscular girlfriend. Let's start in order.,1. LGBT. Seriously, are you going to judge LGBT people now? My God, this is so low. It's 2020, damn it, when the peak of tolerance in the world should be raised at times. BUT ARE YOU SERIOUS?! Accuse the game of some kind of PROPAGANDA? This is very stupid. No one is telling you to become lesbian, gay, asexual, TRANS, or anything else. A story is being told, and this is one aspect. Attachment, emotions, feelings, Yes, there is such a range of emotions... And then they got hung up on it... A great society of people who can't even put aside those moments and delve into the very essence, the very plot and agenda.,2. Joel and his death. It all, sooner or later, overtakes. How do people die? As the heroes? All die in different ways. Have you ever wondered how many people Ellie killed? In front of friends, family, and friends. And they all had similar emotions. Joel died as fate would have it. And this does not turn back, the game clearly and clearly shows us that sooner or later a person dies, no matter what: from old age or from a bullet in the forehead, or having been hit by a club on the head. This was a turning point for the plot and its further movement, a motive for revenge. Yes, there was no revenge, but we will talk about this later.,3. And the most interesting, perhaps, muscular girl. Excuse me, what? Did you decide to blame her for her muscles? People, apparently, only the beautiful ladies and have seen. What about female bodybuilders? Maybe you should see some images of them both on the Internet and in reality? Well, as far as looks are concerned. And now all about this girl. Yes, the players have a right to hate it, that's the whole point. And if she was much more exposed as a character, then you would understand her. Why did she kill Joel? Revenge. For your father. Wouldn't you do the same? You come and see your loved one dead on the ground. And you know who did it. I don't know why. I will continue to honor it. She's the same person, Wake up. She makes mistakes, just like the rest of us. Just think how much she had to go through in the damn Apocalypse. No less than Ellie, one hundred percent.,,The ending... Oh, this is also a very controversial moment for all the people who shouted simply: WHY didn't SHE KILL HER?! SHE KILLED JOEL! BURN HER AT THE STAKE! Either people only watched the final and didn't pass the game, or they just weren't paying attention. Ellie saw Lev and Abby. As soon as the boy was put down, they started a fight, where Ellie almost won. But she remembered Joel. And just think... Ellie killed Abby. Escaped. And soon the lion wakes up, seeing Abby's corpse. What will he do? Revenge. And so the chain will continue. Ellie realized this at the very end. Why these liters of spilled blood, what good is it? Such were the thoughts that passed through her mind. She had destroyed her happiness, and she could have continued to live in peace, forgetting about it after a while.,,Finally, I want to say that the players ' assessments are not objective. From the word completely. And the critics have brains that understood everything and took it all in their stride. Stop this land, I'll get off.
7273) I don't have words to explain this game, the intense moments, gameplay, graphics, intense story,It's just not just the best game that I ever played, it's one of the best games ever made. Forget about any bad review, the last of us part II is an experience that every player should have.
7274) Phenomenal game. Absolutely loved it. So much richer than the formulaic first.
7275) i played the first game and didnt actually liked the gameplay, but the story is what makes that game still rumble in my mind to date. After reading the leaks, and watching the outrage when the game came out, i decided to watch some cutscenes on YT and i am happy i didnt preordered TLOU2. the only thing that made me love this franchise is now ruined.
7276) Great game, great graphics with a great story. Better than the first game imo
7277) I'm only giving it a 10 because people want to hate it and give it a 0 so yea. I do however enjoy the game and don't think it deserves even a quarter of the hate it gets.
7278) This is not a game, this is a god damn masterpiece. Just have no words, my deepest respect to Neil Druckmann and all Naughty dog team. Absolutely stunning experience.
7279) Absolute masterpiece. Haters are your typical easily offended white males. If you don't fall into this category, chances are you will love this gem.
7280) I actually thought it was great the way it played the new interactions it just felt right to me.
7281) Enjoying it a lot.  I can not understand the bad critics. Whats wrong with the Game? I was Waidring for IT dir years and it was worth it.
7282) Deeper than the first, refined gameplay, present and fun replay factor and the Graphics are a delight for the eyes.  The Last of Us Part II is an incredible game for those who are willing to not only play a great game, but to have an experience unlike anything that has been released in recent years.
7283) Very cool and beautiful game. Haters, I know what your problem is. Your mother does not love you.
7284) This game is different, in MY OPINION, this is a strange yet beautiful game, I won't go into detail, but there are some disturbing things in this game. So I like it and if you read this, just buy the game and decide for yourself. And don't say I have watched a stream this game is all about context.,,I am taking my hat off to the creators that have shown balls for making this game, and I will not lie I would like some things to be different but accept the choices made by the creators.,,When being on the hunt for revenge, be sure to dig two graves.,,Kind Regards.
7285) Great history, good gameplay, with simple mechanics and a new incredible feature never saw before in video games: you can play musics in the guitar. That is amazing. One of best animations in all time, and the best facial expressions ever. Great desing levels, and a big upgrade in the AI. Unfortunately, the characters development is not better than in Tlou 1, but the mechanic attribute is the best of all time. Tlou 2 is the best game I ever saw.
7286) Best storytelling, Beautiful pictures and a amazing world.,The last of us part 2 is still a good game
7287) When normal encounter with enemy feels like a scripted event. Yes it is 10/10
7288) A beautifully tough game to complete due to all the emotions that are involved with it. A brilliant storyline, showing us exactly what ND said when he says “No one is the hero.” The two playable characters are on a vengeance for what they believe is right. The graphics and new mechanics are unbelievable. Definitely one of the best games I’ve played. 10/10
7289) good game beautiful story beautiful graphics and well produced and polished
7290) Really good game, it shows how cruel the world can be, and for the people that says it’s bad cuz Ellie is lesbian, you’re all clowns, cuz it’s a fact from the dlc of the first game, it’s not for social inclussion
7291) The story was unexpected.I never understood how Joel was considered a hero anyways since he killed millions of people by not letting the fireflies get the cure.If he was looking for a porpuse, i think saving the whole humanity would be  way better than saving just one kid .He didn't do it for Ellie he did it for himselft his selfish desire doomed humans .Of course i didn't like to end up like he did but still it didn't ruin it for me.Excelent gameplay , story AI. Can't understand the rating of this game since its above most games in every way . I get you didn't like the story but you gotta apreciate the cool and action elements.
7292) An absolute rollercoaster of emotions and anxiety. You literally feel immersed into the characters and their lives / roles inside the incredible & beautiful environments. I believe it to be a masterpiece of a sequel, and the immense detail and design put into the game is phenomenal. 10/10
7293) Don't know why everyone is hating. The game is amazing don't listen to the haters
7294) Best game I have ever played, quickest I have ever finished a game also, graphics are unreal
7295) Best Game of 2020 i love his history and his playness and i dont underestand why people doesnt like it.
7296) Great! Can't say anything else .....................................m..mmmmm
7297) Spoilers Below,I loved the gameplay, locations, graphics, the new clickers beautiful *chefs kiss*,But the plot... Honestly up until I was forced to try to kill Ellie while playing as Abby I was completely on board with the plot. In a universe where it's impossible to define good/evil characters as it's a morally grey universe it's clear they tried to show Abby as a hero and Ellie as a villain because she held onto her grief and expected us to forget how Abby brutally tortured and murdered Joel like that. There is a clear plot hole from the first game where Marlene reveals they have experimented on other immune patients and all died without creating a vaccine this totally could have been a possibility for Ellie. It took a while for me to warm up to playing as Abby but by the end of Seattle day 2 I grew to like her , however I feel betrayed that we were advertised a different game. As we play through half the game as Abby it is ridiculous we weren't told that this would happen it caught a lot of people of guard and put them off .,Lastly we should have been given a choice as to if we wanted to give up Dina and JJ and go after Abby (and kill her )  or to stay with Dina and try to work through Ellie's trauma with her help.  I understand the message was revenge is not the right thing to do but it was conveyed in the worst way.
7298) Who gave this game under 8 they have even play this for 5 min. 100 % sure. They Ask god to play this but they cant
7299) All I have yo say is most people negatively  reviewing this game are just bitter that the critics reviewed it so highly even tho they didn’t like the leaks and some haven’t even the fineshed the game.,What I believe is this game is a masterpiece and a emotional rollercoaster which I enjoyed so so much. The ending has a deep meaning to it which most people didn’t get. Must play
7300) The game is bloody amazing and I hate how people are bombing it to act cool and ****
7301) People didn't like Joel's death, but what else would make Ellie go to Seattle to kill all WLF?
7302) Amazing story! I was amazed from beginning to end, with its fantastic graphics and unpredictable story. Honestly, best game of 2020 yet!
7303) While I’m not going to pretend that I’ve finished the game I’ve a lot of these so-called “fans” on here, I’m writing this review to combat the disgusting review bombing that’s been going on this weekend.,First of all, the game is BEAUTIFUL. Graphics don’t make up for poor gameplay but the gameplay is also excellent. The gameplay feels like the original but modernised and perfected. The story so far is fantastic and very well written - I don’t understand what people are talking about when they say it’s badly written, what do these people want!? Also, as a gay man, I love playing as a gay character, possibly for the first time ever without it being a choice: and this is what worries me; are people giving this game a bad review because it’s one game among THOUSANDS which doesn’t represent them. Am I not allowed to be represented for once, or is that an agenda? Honestly it’s laughable and really sad.,Well done to Neil Druckman and Halley Gross. This game is divisive, but when you create something that challenges bigotry, it will always be divisive. Thank you for letting us be seen in video games finally.
7304) This game is amazing. I didn't play the original, but watched a recap video by ThePatientWolf on YouTube (at https://youtu.be/4BKinK2Yu6U).,,My boyfriend played the original and started playing this one. For two days I just sat and watched like it was some kind of epic movie or TV series. It's so beautifully done and the story is gripping. Some of the game mechanics (even small things) are mind-blowing...like I haven't seen game play like this before. It feels like a new future of gaming.,,I finally started playing myself so I could fully enjoy it. Highly recommend.
7305) Best game i’ve played in 2020, wouldn’t say that this game is bad, better then past part.
7306) Those complaining about lgbtq agenda in reviews - you embarrass yourselves. The story has virtually nothing to do with being gay, or trans. Those are qualities within characters that don't impact the story in the least.,,it's unbelievably frustrating when you get to the midpoint of the game, because of an artistic decision to ... well, if you play it you'll see what i mean. But the frustration is short-lived and you're back to the main plot line eventually. It's one of the, if not THE, best games and stories ever. Can't wait to see how the HBO series turns out
7307) Where do one begin to even describe this game. I hated how it made me feel, since I probably spent 5 hours of my 30 hour playtrough crying. It have some heart wrenching, heartwarming and all In all so many memorable emotional moments I will never forget. It’s been almost three weeks since I finished the game and I am daily analyzing and thinking about the date of characters, what was, what could have been and possible what still might be. It isn’t often I have been baffled and thrilled by a game quite like this. The last time was probably part 1, red dead redemption 1 or even back in MGS3. I will keep things short; Part 2 is a worthy and true sequel! Excellent stealth gameplay, fun set-pieces and explosive joy from start to finish. Wonderful graphics, acting, music and the feel of the world is far beyond any other experience out there these days. The story is emotional and you are right to hate some parts of it if you want. But believe me when I say that there are so much meaning and beauty in those moments you might hate and if you open your eyes and think about human motivation and the justification of making this sequel, it will all make perfect sense.,This entire game is like a season of GOT, and then I’m talking about one of the food once. Do yourself a favor and buy this game. A true modern masterpiece.Say no more
7308) Truly the most impactful, heartbreaking games I've ever played. I suggest not listening to the haters of this game as they cant look past certain story decisions and leave bad reviews that are opinion based, not quality based.
7309) The story is a must, but apart from that, the game is really wonderful, I invite you to play the entire video game.
7310) One of the best games I ever played constantly unexpected twists and turns in the story... lots of shock and wtf moments.,Simple epic
7311) First off I have never rated a game in my life, this is the first game that ever gave me the urge to since I have just beaten it. The last of us part 2 was one of if not the best game I've ever played in terms of the experience I had with it, so much emotion and twist and turns that I did not see coming. What a rollercoaster of a game. I can see people not liking or loving it as much as I did but for the people who haven't played give this game a chance. I give this game a 10 for the experience and for being a game I give it a strong 9
7312) I never, ever except something like this this... This video game is total masterpiece. Love
7313) Most of the people rating it 0 either have no idea what the story of The Last Of Us was or just rushed through it without taking in the scenery or the story, same with The Las Of Us Part II, they didn't explore to take in the scenery and story(or the items that come with exploring), they're too lazy to read, too lazy to take in the full glory of the game, they mostly want action instead of a story, it's sad how many peoole are numb and don't realise how great this game is and how deep you have to dig to take it all in.
7314) The reviews are misleading. I get it. It's different. The storyline is haunting. So compelling and you cannot miss it just because some haters didn't get what they expected. Kudos to Naughty Dog for being so brave. I won't spoil anything. You just have to play it yourself. I've never played a game so immersive. Totally worth it.
7315) WHAT A RIDE. This game was beyond intense and emotionally draining from start to finish. The story destroyed me in more ways than I can explain and while I didn't fully agree with some of the decisions made with the story, in the end all I wanted was more and for the story to keep on going. I'm hoping Naughty Dog continues the story, either with a sequel or a spin-off. This series is amazing and must go on! Game of the Year.
7316) Best game ever, this game is amazing. 30 hours of play for an experience wich will remain etched in my memory forever.
7317) I love it really good game,It has amazing grafice and story,Welldone nauhgty dog
7318) * just finished the game *,Graphics-  10/10 Instantly one of the best looking if not the best looking game on ps4.,Gameplay 9/10- gameplay was pretty much the same as before with some clever tweaks.  I love how they changed their mapping system as well as tuned up their workshop, both feel very real and help engage you in the world.  Some areas had bugs where clickers would not react if you got past a certain point.  I also wish you didnt unholster your gun before danger all the time, essentially telling you when people are near.  That said it is intense, fun, and the right level of challenge in the options.  Loved setting up camps vs clickers.,Sound:  10/10. Some of the best sound effects in any game ever!,Story:  10/10. Okay here is where some people might end up not liking some decisions.  All I will say is I was very emotionally invested and loved the first game.  I finished the game with tears in my eyes and was clapping.  It was phenomenal.  I never read any leaks so it all hit me as I played the game.  Some parts are predictable obviously and I went in thinking I would be critical of this and not like it.  Turns out the end had a better pay off for me than even the first.   It will be an instant generational classic that will be talked about for a long time.,Ignore the fake hate the game is getting, go buy it and enjoy.
7319) The people who are complaining about the story are just children who don’t appreciate the value of good storytelling. They all want to sympathize only with the characters they knew from the first game instead of empathizing and learning about the newer characters. In the first game, obviously Joel made a very impactful decision to save Ellie. In doing so, he kills countless people who were really just trying to save their own loved ones. Now, years later, the children of the people he killed come back to kill him. It’s a simple ending of a story loop, an effect of the choices that Joel made. But instead of acknowledging this the viewers simply see a character they love being killed in a gruesome manner. It is a tragic end to his life, but at least now he is back with his family, where he belongs. He no longer has to live with that pain. Meanwhile, Abby has to learn how to live with having killed someone in such a brutal manner. It comes back to bite her as Ellie seeks the same revenge as her. The story is a very realistic, meaningful look at how all this death and suffering would affect people. Some choose to live in pain and seek vengeance while others choose to let go. If you can’t see the beauty and depth in that, then you just don’t understand pain.
7320) What a massive product! This game makes the original feel like a DLC! The attention to detail is on the next level, which explains why they had to push it back multiple times. Here’s hoping we’ll see more of these games in the series. It’s just too good!
7321) A great game! Imo it's far better than the first part. The gameplay, as well as sound and music quality, is just amazing. Stelth is a lot more thought out. I think the real score for this one is 9, nevertheless I'm putting 10 because I'm sick of this hatred!
7322) This game shows how childish, clumsy and unfinished the first part was.,She's no worse. She's different.,..And it's f**king awesome!
7323) possible light Spoilers!,,for me personaly it´s a masterpiece in many ways. the one thing happens in the beginning may hurt and is a bitter pill. But there is no good and bad, no hero and antihero in this game as you might think after the first view hours.,Every action has it´s consequences. The motivation for both is clear as you continue and a win for one site is a loss for the other and reverse. no black and white. This is a very deep message and not everyone will understand it, maybe too young maybe too naiv.,I finished the game and like i said i never played a like this, in a good way. but that´s just my opinion.
7324) Masterpiece! Firstly you have to play the game u piece of **** Hate this community
7325) It's a good game, all the post that give 0, are You okey?, The game it's not a 0 ir You don't like the story give a 6 o 5
7326) Its masterpiece . Game shows different reletionships and situations which is so good. Highly recommended to play.
7327) Game of the year. Not everyone are humanly prepared for this masterpiece, there is too much denial and too much hate in people to acknowledge the story of the game.
7328) Does this game try push a political agenda? No. This game tells a story about humans, and just because a character says or does something you don't agree with, that doesn't make it "unbelievable" or "political". Naughty Dog knows these characters better than any of us, and they are telling the story they want to. Just because we don't agree with something, it doesn't make the game bad. We're meant to disagree with choices they make, because believe it or not, these characters are flawed humans, just like the rest of us (yeah, I'm looking at you guys giving this game a 0 without even picking it up). I definitely didn't always agree with the direction the story took, or the decisions the characters made, but that's the beauty of it.. I'm not supposed to. It's not my story. It's Naughty Dogs, and man is it brutal, dark, and miserable. But again, that's the point. I'm just thankful they're not afraid to tell it the way they wanted it. As for the gameplay, I don't have much to say. Yeah it's more or less the same, but refined with an added layer. It worked the first time, and it's even better here. As for the environments, Naughty Dog has outdone themselves. The attention to detail is crazy. To think a designer spent weeks perfecting a room that I rushed through in 4 seconds blows my mind. The game does a good job making the environments open enough giving you multiple paths to an objective without the need for objective marker or a mini-map. I never felt lost, but at the same time I never knew exactly how I was supposed to get somewhere. Naughty Dog really found the perfect balance of making the game feel open without making it an open world game.,,I finished the game resonating with characters I originally hated, and hating characters I thought I loved, overall feeling like ****. It's a miserable story with the mechanics, environments, and acting to back it up. The game is a masterpiece. If you loved the first game and want to see how Naughty Dogs develops and punishes these characters for the choices they've made, play this now, before someone spoils it for you.
7329) People just hate on it because Joel dies and you must play as Abby. Even though i didn't like to play as her, Joel's death is not bad written, it's a cruel world, he is actually a bad person and this game gave him not plot armor. He actually got what he deserved, even if you like it or not. Don't get me wrong, it did hurt me a lot to watch him die like that, but I don't hink it was bad writing. Even if you don't empathize with Abby, the goal is not to make you feel sorry for her, but to understand her reasons. What Naughty Dogs did was kinda like playing with fire, and they kinda burnt themselves, but at the end I think they made one of the most memorable games ever.
7330) This is a cool game, with a cool story, gameplay, because of the injustice I had to register here, we should raise the rating to at least 7-9
7331) Y’all...quit your rage tears because this game is a masterpiece. Watching way too many reviews of people complaining about the lgbtq characters, playing as women, or “the moment” with Joel, and it’s almost laughable.
7332) One of the most profound games i’ve played. the storytelling is absolutely amazing, showing the duality and cycle of revenge in a way i don’t think i’ve ever seen. People on here saying it’s just a bad revenge story don’t get it, it shows the complexities of revenge and the different sides so beautifully. i havent cried so hard at an ending in anything ever really. i also start sobbing whenever i hear “if i ever were to lose you”. please play and decide for yourself instead of letting these reviews get you down. an absolute masterpiece.
7333) This game was a emotional roller coaster that will stick with me for the rest of my life due to the lovable characters and not so lovable. And to the greater message of the whole thing. This is an amazing play and one of the best games i have ever played
7334) Incredible game with great gameplay, amazing graphics and astonishing story
7335) Perfection. Seriously. Anyone who criticizes the story is someone who needs a happy ending with rainbows and unicorns and has no reason to be playing this game. You will not be happy by the end of the game, I promise you, but that is the beauty of this. ND doesn't want to treat you like a child, so don't expect that. Go play animal crossing.
7336) Naughty Dog’s bravest, darkest masterpiece to date and one of the greatest games of this generation
7337) This game has given me a gigantic moral lesson that revenge can destroy you. I'm seeing life with other eyes, this game has changed something in me. I can't explain it but this game is simply one of the best I've ever played in my life.
7338) People who are giving this such a low ratings are donkeys, they played the first chapter and started **** play the game to the end before reviewing anything... this Game is a 10/10 everything about it is great, Gameplay Mechanics/Graphics and Story is superb
7339) **** the haters, this game is just the most amazing i ve ever played in my all life
7340) Perfect balance of gameplay and story, excellent attention to detail and contains amazing polish
7341) This game is a masterpiece. All the critics about the story are just dull, especially because most of the people who wrote a negative review here did not even play the game. Play it, live it, take your time to understand it and only then, judge it. And don't punish writers for their bravery, because if they should ever decide to listen to your complaints the only thing you gonna achieve is boring stories with boring characters. But maybe you're boring people and that's just what you deserve.
7342) The game is even more impressive than its predecessor. Graphips are breathtaking. Emotion and impact.
7343) This game left me speechless and emotional at every turn, do yourself a favour and pick it up...that is all i can say.
7344) I found the game very good! and although many say that the gameplay is bad and the story too, I didn't think so. Incredible ambience and even with the non-linear story format is perfectly understandable. The outcome of the story is not for everyone, because, in my opinion, it requires the player to understand very well the message that the game wants to bring.,Note: this text is original from Portuguese.
7345) You people saying its a bad game are 1 of 2 things:,1: havent played the full game and dont get the history and the message behind it all.,2: felt angry because of the diversity of the game, which was natural and not at all forced.,The game has a complex story that goes full circle, it represents hate and how far you can go to accomplish it, how blind revenge is and how the cicle of hate continues unless its broken.,Not the game's falt for your lack of maturity.
7346) I would have given this a strong 9 but I don’t think this game deserves all these zeroes. so a ten just to help the overall score. yes just play through it you won’t regret it .
7347) great history and graphics, you can see the effort. The lgbt thread is a plus
7348) Reading half of the user reviews made me realize there is no basis for most of the scores. "I be honest I haven't played the game" I mean wtf that's like reviewing a movie by watching the trailer. Go play the game and see for your self, this is really the game of this gen. Also to people who don't understand how embargos and reviews NDAs work, ND actually delt with the leaks and reviews in a very good way.if it was for my company it would have been a law suit. Anyways, the game is 10/10 for me. I was seriously considering RDR2 to be the game of this gen.but after playing this there is no comparison, the emotional rollercoaster and the void I feel now makes this every bit as good as the first one.
7349) This game is great. Starts of with a similar theme as the first game, and then goes darker.  I wish there were little more different gameplay mechanics, but I still liked it.,,Do not look at the reviews that are scoring it below 6, I say 6 because that would make their reviews respectable, it is just hatred for how the game treated certain characters.  But that is how this world works, it is brutal and really makes you realize a sense of loss.  Something Ellie couldn't fully understand in the first game, but by the end of part 2, she realizes it.,,Unfortunate, that she took the path of anger, and no regard for human life to get there, its almost Walking Dead-ish in that sense with the introduction of Negan and how it affected characters we loved.,,All things said, with graphics, sound, animation, the world created, and just everything together its an 8 for me, but I will bump it to account for some of the ridiculous hateful scores.
7350) *SPOILERS INCLUDED IN THIS REVIEW*,,Ignore the obvious review-bombing by unhappy fans that were pissed about Joel getting a golf club taken to his head. If you're mad that a fan favorite character was killed, and you expected him to be a hero, you completely missed the point of the first game, and this one as well. Joel was a **** monster. He massacred an entire hospital worth of people who could have cured the virus, just because he couldn't bear losing Ellie. That's disgustingly selfish. With this game, while I do understand that playing as the character who killed Joel could piss off a lot of people, the writers intended for us to see both sides of the story.  In Abby's world, Ellie and Joel are the villains. Joel murdered her father, and she wanted revenge. The events of the first game set up this cycle. There is a proverb that states "When you embark on a journey of revenge, be sure to dig two graves.",,I also can't praise the environments, the lighting, animations, and design of this game. It is an absolute visual masterpiece.,,My final thoughts on this game are: It was dark, like Requiem for a Dream dark. It is not meant to be a feel good story. At times it can be downright disturbing. But at the end of it, I was left with a feeling of satisfaction. Do I think the ending made sense the way it happened? In my view, unless Abby and Ellie killed each other at the end, the way it actually ended was the only way it could have ended. I don't know what's in store for LoU3, but I'll damn sure be waiting with baited breath for what will hopefully be a fantastic conclusion to an amazing story.
7351) Very good game. For good reason so all lashed out with criticism on this game. Yes, the plot of course could be better, but the game itself is gameplay but also technically at a height. She is definitely worthy of getting her 9 points.
7352) The game is honestly amazing. The story feels that of a show from HBO, and the characters are life-like.,Don't let the controversy persuade you into thinking this game is anything other than amazing without playing it first! :)
7353) Excellent continuation of the first game, highly recommend! While I wish a couple segments of the story went differently, I was still very impressed with it overall. The message and themes of the game were very thought provoking. Would highly recommend!
7354) best game on PS4 since they remastered the original. people downvoting just because they can’t handle that the main character is a girl in an apocalypse and still gets more puss than them
7355) Its a good game the bad reviews are only for annoying check it out for what it's like to tell a story
7356) i really love this sequel the start was very emotional (I cried the whole time) and the next section's of the game have a really good narration and the graphics are extraordinary. Some zones are really dark and scary giving the right touch to the scenario.
7357) I believe The last of us part 2 does not deserve such a negative.  Yes, she is not perfect, but not terrible.  Ellie develops throughout the game and at the end realizes that revenge is the worst of her actions. Ellie lost everything to Dina, her child, Joel and her connection with the past, she can no longer play the guitar, the only thing that reminded her of the past with Joel. Letting go of the past, she begins a new, quiet life
7358) It's a masterpiece. From the beginning to the end it will take you on an emotional rollercoaster.,The environments look beautiful and all relevant characters have an interesting and well-thought of background.,It's a dark and twisted game that beautifully showcases how twisted a desperate person can become.,,i can only imagine the negative critics come from homo-/ transphobic people or someone that cant handle the death of a mayor character, which if you watched the trailers, is predictable.
7359) The best game of the year so far! Great story and stunning visuals. Its excactly what I wanted from the sequel.
7360) ı just dont get that why people are so f*ckin idiot    .........................
7361) Just amazing game,Is time to grown up and stop crying everytime you see a realistic final.
7362) It saddens me that so many people are not seeing the potential of this game and its message. Revenge is such a scary and dangerous thing to carry through. It's a vicious cycle. Hate destroys everything it touches - this game captures it beautifully. Do yourself a favor and play this game. It is a masterpiece. The people who are review bombing it just because of a certain event that takes place in the first two hours are need to get a grip.
7363) Amazing, it brought back the memory of what good games are. graphics, gameability, accessibility and although many did not like the story, if you see it from a different point it is magnificent.
7364) I love it, I was so impressed with the gameplay, and graphics, the history is so real because it makes us realize ourselves how cruel the world is
7365) The game os perfect, ir you are conservador, **** your self. Kisses and hugs.
7366) Amazing story and an amazing game. Don't understand the low ratings, it's a masterpiece.
7367) one of the objectively best games I have ever played, recommend this to everyone. Please don’t let other peoples opinion sway yours.
7368) perfect, the game of the history, realistic graphics, story is epic, Ellie is fantastic
7369) Very much enjoyed, this game shows that revenge is a never ending cycle. When revenge is achieved by you, the person who was hurt for you to feel better now wants that same vengeance at your expense.
7370) This score is based on the entire game. I just finished playing and this game is a masterpiece. I have been playing games since the ps one came out and I have never experienced anything like this game. It is one of the best games I have ever played if not the best. I have never felt so emotionally distraught after playing a game.  Dont let other opinions sway yours and avoid reviews. Also, I'm not a bot. I just made an account to review because I saw this game was being review bombed and I didn't think it was fair. People had expectations for this game and a lot of them were disappointed because the game was not what they expected it to be. A lot of people are upset based on the story and that is really a personal preference issue. Just play it. There is nothing else like it.
7371) An absolutely beautiful game. A masterpiece. I can understand why some people may not like certain character decisions, or how dark the themes were, but they are crucial in the overall story and message of the game. This amounted to an experience which ultimately elevates this game far above anything that any other piece of media I have consumed has achieved.
7372) this game is wonderful.,one of the best stories in the world of video games.
7373) Masterpiece. So sad it’s over. Don’t let anyone else or the review bombing put you off. You will enjoy this game tremendously.
7374) Made me cry.,Made me smile.,Made me cry.,Made me angry.,Made me cry.,Would experiece 100 times again if i could.
7375) with this title the videogames medium rises on another level. a level of deepness and maturity that has never been saw before. thanks
7376) One of the best stories ive played or seen in years. When all the bad reviews were on here and i finished the game... 1.1% of people had the trophy for actually completing it. Amazing game for people who've actually played it. I feel sorry for all the people that leave bad reviews just to hurt a games rating. Sick people in this world. Also, if you don't like gay people in your games, your opinion is useless. You're the last of a dying breed.
7377) You have the right to not like this game, but dislike it for the good reason, not because the story take turn that YOU don't like. This is a masterpiece, this game really explore what makes us human; emotion, psychology, mind state and what we do for what reason.,,Let me give you a small text that ND put on a Lithograph in the Collector Edition and believe me, this is what a lot of player should read before saying this game suck.,,'' What would you do if someone you loved was the victim of a cruel an violent act? How easily could one's mind tip toward violent retribution? How far would you go to bring the people responsible to justice? if you were successful, how would it change you? would ever be the same?,,With The Last Of Us Part II, we set out to create an experience that explore these difficult questions, the darkest sides of human nature, and the vicious cycles of violence that we witness in the world around us on a daily basis. The result is a game crafted by hundreds of developers that pushed themselves to create something more than a mere entertainment -a game that we're incredibly proud of an that we hope will enthrall you and challenge your own views of justice and empathy.'',,Whoever read this, play this game and still say they ruined the franchise and such, definitely doesn't know how human/brain work.,,11/10 would cry again
7378) One of the best games I've ever played in my life. Play it, you won't regret it.
7379) Best game I've ever played. Still recovering from it's sheer brutality, physically and emotionally.
7380) A true masterpiece. Must be played in it's entirety to be fully appreciated. Don't listen to the incoherent bots giving this a zero because the leaks triggered them or because they don't have a PS4 to play it.
7381) The game is absolutely beautiful and the gameplay is actually fun and enjoyable but the story I could not get into it I felt no sympathy for the new characters and I felt like this was being forced on me.With a game so based on story the story not being good is not acceptable.
7382) This game was able to show the reality that revenge is an inevitable path of destruction that only leads to more loss and suffering. A topic not unseen, but definitely not as grittily eye opening as what this game has done and for that it deserves praise
7383) This is an amazing game. Story, graphics, character development, player interaction. Buy it, play it, experience it.
7384) Nice game, one of the best of the generation, a lot of action and good graphics
7385) Emotional rollercoaster of what humans are willing to do when wronged. It is also visually stunning.
7386) best game I played! Ellie is simply incredible, one of the best protagonists.
7387) Graphics, gameplay, story. It’s a masterpiece, plain and simple. The story is bleak, violent and moving
7388) it's amazing how idiotic people can be, the game is perfect, unfortunately freedom of speech is everyone's thing, it's ridiculous how these useless people unload their frustrations and their ideals,on a video game, obviously sitting on their comfortable sofa
7389) Best game of this summer, actually. Technically it is the best game for my on this moment.
7390) Ignore these reviews. Ignore the critics that speak positively or negatively. Play and form your own opinion. I see this game as a masterpiece, and with great reason. All it takes is an open mind, and dedication. You’ll either love it, or hate it. Play it for yourself.
7391) Amazing game, the perfect continuation, incredible graphics for a PS4, better Gameplay and gunplay than in the first, and a darker story but well done, where a lot of unexpected events happens.,Incredible game again.
7392) I just finished this intense journey and can I say, it was wonderful. Hear me out.,1) Joel dying was a SHOCK, now, I personally was not too attached to him. His choice at the end of The Last of Us Part 1 made me think. He damned an entire world, off of his own selfishness to keep Ellie alive. She wanted to be there, she wanted to make a cure. His choice was to curse the world with a plague, continuing the evolution of post-apocalypse life. To me, I thought what would the world continue to develop as? And that’s what we got in Part: 2. A continually developed, post-apocalyptic world. We know what the zombies are, what they do. We know there is no stopping them now, it’s accepted. We still know that humans are the apex, at the end of the day, and must develop as people in this new world.,2) The LGBT stuff: HOW MANY GAMES, HOW MANY, have a STRAIGHT muscley man, and hot curvy woman at the forefront? HOW MANY?,Almost all of them. To me, it was REFRESHING, to see some character development that wasn’t a cookie cutter man, and a cookie cutter woman, trying to love each other with the inconvenience of zombies in the way. And it was beautifully done. The complexity of the characters, Dina being pregnant with Jesse’s child, the strong woman Abby is because of the loss of her father and Owen’s typical charm with his love triangle and Abby not having it. Abby showing her rough outer self, with her soft maternal need to take care of Lev. It’s a story about a generation of young adults, making their way in a world where acceptance is survival. It’s really brilliant, if you think about it.,3) Lack of character development? I feel like if you stopped clutching your pearls, for lack of cookie cutter protagonists and antagonists, you’d actually find there to be a lot. Abby grows incredibly by the end of the game. First appearing as a stone cold powerhouse, killing Joel, to becoming a maternal figure to Lev and his sister (who regrettably died way too fast after I spent ALL THAT TIME IN THE HOSPITAL.) As well as we see Ellie on a roller coaster. As well she should be. She was lied to about her encounter with the Fireflies, it was already shown she was a lesbian in the last game only for her to be confronted by that guy that all these people reviewing sound like. She wants revenge for Abby killing Joel, but at what cost? Dina getting killed, Jesse never being able to see his son? Going all the way back out to get the final blow, to find out Abby is bit, and she’s hung up to die. Still wanting revenge she tries, but at what cost, again? Losing her fingers, so the one thing she could keep from Joel, music, is gone. When Abby was as good as dead anyway. Bravo.,4) Abby’s character design? I mean **** it, you might as well say every girl has to have big boobs an ass and curves to be taken seriously. Her difference in design as a character is what made her stand out. Even her sex scene, I mean albeit real INTENSE, showed even more of how her strength was beauty.,5) Lev’s character, I don’t wanna hear any one of you talk about MULAN in a good way if you had a problem with Lev, in any way in this game. That’s all I gotta say about that.,6) LGBT stuff: I find it interesting that a lot of people are complaining about the LGBT stuff, and then say they have no problem with people being gay. But wish that this game didn’t have it in there. As if there’s hundreds of games with LGBT stuff in it. When would you find it appropriate? Should the gays wait for an OP called “Sparkle Zombies?” Is it cool as long as you don’t have to look at it? Get over yourselves, homophobes.,7) Lastly, if you had a problem with the game I think you should just stick to zombies in Call of Duty. Maybe Left 4 Dead. Because you’re looking for a cookie cutter zombie shooter, and not a game that’s willing to set itself apart from the rest. That’s what The Last of Us: Part 1, did. It made you think, it made you question what is right and wrong by the end. The same goes for this game, and they did it beautifully.,BRAVO.
7393) Amazing story, gameplay and visuals. What more could you want?... multiplayer?
7394) The story is pretty good. I personally enjoyed it (despite what everyone else says) even though I’m still devastated and shocked about Joel’s death. People just focus on the parts they don’t like about the story and just say the game is trash. The level of realism in animations are perfect. You can feel that the npc's are also people, not like other npc's in other games. So overall, this game is ART and it is one of the best.
7395) The best game play The best geraphic in this generation,The best game in this generation
7396) People just didn't like the game because it doesn't give what you want. It makes you uncomfortable at certain points, but the director said it would happen. The history is incredible and the game-play is awesome. The story is about revenge and makes you fell sad with just few moments of happiness, but the first game wasn't very different. It almost never gave you a break, bad things happen more than good. The infected are not the problem, they are actually a relief, the humans are a big problem, you have to learn how the different types of enemies behave. You won't be able to fight them in the same way, you have to adapt otherwise you will just keep dying.
7397) A long, haunting experience and worth every minute of it. I hope everyone can look back and see how ridiculous this drama was. The game is amazing.
7398) Simply perfect!,The game has evolved in all aspects compared to the first, but without losing its essence.,The graphics are beautiful, one of the best today. The game play improved in what it needed, without abandoning the characteristic elements of the first game.
7399) A simple but direct story, the action and the gampleyare very fluid, totally recommended
7400) Amazing game with an amazing story, graphics, acting, gameplay and so much more. PS don’t pay attention to butthurt reviews from people who didn’t even play the game.
7401) An emotional journey throughout. So many feelings you get playing this. You feel love, you feel affection, you feel hatred, you feel loss. It's essentially one of the best thought-out story ever written in any form of media. Gameplay wise it has the same tone but it's much more evolved. The AI is vastly improved. Graphically it's the best game out there. Naughty Dog has delivered yet again.
7402) Most of the review scores here by users are fake, they gave it all a 0/10 or a 1/10 immediately after the game got released.,,[SPOILER FREE REVIEW],The game's story is indecisive at large, a lot of people love it, a lot of others hate it.,The intro of the game is by far one of the most amazing entry's in video game history that I've seen with the amazing cinematography which seems to be inspired by Hideo Kojima's famous MGS5 one-shot cut scenes.,,The story itself is all about revenge, it's dark.,The game isn't meant for everyone, the story it entails is dark and heartbreaking.,There are some character deaths which has sparked controversy, which I myself personally found amazing as I filled up with hatred to continue the rest of the game.,,Personally, I love the story, but even if we take away the entire story and just focus on the game play, I would give the game a 7/10. The game on Survival is BRUTAL, It's exciting and makes you come up with hundreds of new ways to play the game. If you see a user score of 0/10 or 1/10, you should best leave it ignored, the amount of graphical achievements, art direction, game play, animations, they're way beyond anything I've seen in gaming.,,This game has surely surpassed technical leaps, to give it such a low score is disgraceful.,While I do think the first game is better than the second one story wise, overall my experience in Part 2 was a lot more fun due to it's flashed out mechanics.,,This story is all about moral choices in a world that is cruel and you should ask yourself....Would you personally end the cycle of revenge?,,Just cause the game has characters that you love, doesn't mean they're safe, nor should they be perfect as people want them to be, and that's the beauty of this game, it's real and raw with emotion.,,It's a masterpiece for me, not meant for everyone.
7403) This is the best game I have played on PlayStation. Yes, the story is brutal, filled with violence. Yes, Joel dies a violent death. Yes, Tommy becomes a cripple and Ellie never gets the chance to forgive Joel as she wanted to try. But that’s a bit like life, a rollercoaster of emotions and conflict. I was conflicted when Abby was bashing and wanted to kill Ellie, I was in controller until I wasn’t, I wanted it to stop, but I felt the same when Ellie finally went for her final revenge. Lots of lovable characters died, I like Manny too! And Owen was alright. But that shows you how unforgiving this world is. Maybe Abby’s and Ellie being able to let go set path for something greater.
7404) Really enjoyed it. I did not want the game to end.,Love the combat how I can decide to sneak about or just shoot things. Graphics are amazing.
7405) Totally amazing from start to finish.,The way of carrying the story, the characters and the interactions are the best. Gameplay 10/10 Characters 10/10 Story 10/10 Joel's death - 5/10 In the end though, it leaves an existential void
7406) Masterpiece of storytelling and gameplay. Not sure what all the hate is about
7407) Masterpiece ♥️,Amazing graphics Ellie badass than ever ♥️,Thks ND it's my goty this year ♥️
7408) I’m giving it ten because a lot of you are being stupid but it definitely deserves a nine! A game (or story in any medium) hasn’t made me think so deeply about human conflict basically ever. This story is challenging to get through but brilliant! Think about the fact this is actually what would happen in this situation. Everyone wants realism and you got it in spades people! An eye for a eye, and an eye for another eye. And another eye after that. And every eye would have been better off seeing the world. It’s sad.
7409) The game is years ahead of its time and it’s quite disturbing to see so many negative reviews just based on prejudice, it just makes the game that much important and necessary. The game is a gorgeous masterpiece, it doesn’t deserve the sexist and homophobic cohort of people trying to take from its shine. One of the best things I played. 10/10
7410) Forget the phony baloney low reviews. Brilliant continuation of the story. Very poignant and emotional. The best game of the PS4 era the same way it’s progenitor was the best of the PS3 generation. Bravo Naughty Dog
7411) Disregard the reviews made on June 19th. More than 20k reviews in a few hours after the game was released? It’s literally impossible that any of those people actually finished this 24+ hour game. And you can’t review a story based game if you didn’t play it all the way through, that’s stupid. Anyways i walked into this game ready to hate it, i was hoping i wouldn’t but i “knew” it was going to be bad. First act went by and i loved it, i was surprised. Second act had me more interested than the first even. And then the third act came and i hated it while i was playing. I don’t know, i just wasn’t enjoying it very much, but when the last scene played suddenly everything made sense, the whole game came full circle and i just cried all the way through the credits. The more i think about this game the more i love it. I like the third act now and i understand why i didn’t while i was playing it, it’s not meant to be something enjoyable and fun, which most of the game is, even though you’re facing moral dilemmas throughout the entirety of it. The spectacular graphics and playability contribute to make this game a 10/10 for me, i’m definitely replaying it soon. Now, that’s my opinion, maybe you disagree with me and you hate this game and that’s ok. But the overwhelming hate towards this game in just a few hours after it’s release is not fair and not realistic.
7412) I got really anxious about the hate this game got, because I really liked it, so I just had to come here and share my rating.
7413) Just finished the game. Amazing work!  Well-written plot, deep characters. Beyond all expectations! Love it!
7414) It breaks my heart to see people smashing this game in its face with their horrible scores. I think your knowledge of level design comes from games like call of duty (a six hour long cash crap with no replay value). this game is a masterpieace, surely those who can't resonate with the plot have built up their understanding of story telling around trash like MCU. After 30 hours of non-stop playing and wandering around each location of the game for more secrets and beautiful city-scapes, i was left paralyzed staring at screen with the shocking twist of story in the end. Would you rather play a battle royale game for hundreds of hours or give this game a chance to change your way of thinking with its mind-blowing story? A story i bet you havent even got to the first 2 hours and then came here and put these shamefull scores on metacritic. People who are extremely talented have worked on this game for more than 5 years, hours and hours of hard work and i cant even begin to imagine how disappointed they might feel after seeing these scores. If any of them is reading this i have to say that you guys are first in the line in game making industry, you are the voice of we, the gamers who are tryin to tell the world that game design is pure art. Thank you for making this genious and encouraging game.
7415) I really loved the game,But nevertheless it’s a controversial game and it all boils down to how you can relate to the characters if you do it will be one of the best games you have ever played if not you will probably hate it a lot.
7416) Well, the game is great. One of the best I've ever played and I don't think that a couple of old and stupid nerds that don't have a life should take out your atention of this masterpiece.
7417) There’s a bunch of incels who are too fragile and pathetic to enjoy a game where they don’t play as the macho hero they wish they were in their dreams or as the hyper sexualized woman they wish they would have sex with... so there’s a bunch of stupid reviews. It’s just so lame how mediocre and ignorant this guys are. DONT BELIEVE THEM THOUGH, they haven’t played this game. This game tells a story, it has something to say... and it does this through an incredible adventure, with stunning graphics (really, the best out there), great mechanics and amazing characters.
7418) It’s absurd that people is hating this game so much... It’s one of the best games ever and probably the best of this generation! Its critic’s reviews speak for themselves... The gameplay is amazing, sound mixing, the original soundtrack, both the map and level design and the graphic are the best in commerce and the story, the character's development is INSANE!! How can you give less than a 7/10 to this game? My 10/10 may be too much for some of you, but this game, just for its gameplay etc., deserves at least a 7/10!
7419) Game of the dead! I Love it. It very good am all, its nearly perfect really. Best game i played since years
7420) best game ever I've ever played.,Fantastic storyline.,perfect realistic graphics.,Great gameplay.
7421) The story is more mature that many people is willing to experience in videogames. I assume this is o e of the reasons for the hate.
7422) Honestly don’t pay any attention to the review bombers or the people complaining about terrible narrative it is just completely false, if you are capable of thinking for your self and have an IQ of over 80 you should be able to see just how much of a genius Neil Druckmann really is, I’m not saying you will like the game or what happens in it but I find it almost impossible to believe that you could deny the quality of the story and game as a whole, even if you’ve seen leaks believe me when I say context matters A LOT, don’t let some pathetic leaker rob you of this experience
7423) Don't know why people are intentionally bombing an amazing game based on the leak without even playing it. I hope it continues to break sales records so we can get a trilogy for this game.
7424) This game is marvelous in every way. The masterful storytelling, the next-gen like graphics, the incredible sound effect and the supreme gameplay. Every aspect of the game is out of this world. The last of us part II is truly a well deserved sequel to the legendary the last of us
7425) Understand this game has been review bombed by people, and judging by the quantity of these hours after release, seems rather unfair and weird. I have just completed the game, I’m a neutral gamer and flick between the consoles and PC. I absolutely loved it, I understand the story is not for everyone but without spoiler, I found it brutal and something not many video games try, it’s worked for me and left me thinking about the previous game and all the encounters I’d shared with the characters throughout. The game is simply stunning, and the gameplay, where sticking to the first game, and alike uncharted and tomb raider series, didn’t blow me away but I found myself loving it, as I always have. It’s a shame the reviews that purposely are just to hurt the games ratings are present as I’d be interested to see how it would have compared to red dead redemption. I don’t like placing a game which is so raw in my memory in any ‘top lists’ or ‘one of greatest games ever’ but I truly believe in 10 years time the last of us games will be looked back on so fondly, and will sure be one of my favourite games. As an avid gamer I often spend £50-60 on video games from release and it can end up being disappointing and feeling money could have been spent better elsewhere. TLOU2 certainly doesn’t go into that category. A game I truly loved.
7426) Best game I’ve played in ages.... people who are giving it 0/10 are literally brain dead
7427) This game is amazing ! After finishing it, I couldn’t stop thinking about it for a long time
7428) An unsettling, depressing, compelling work of art, part 2 builds on the first game without repeating its story. Graphically and technically impressive, with excellent music and acting - voice and motion capture.
7429) Glad they went a different way with the story and didn't just do a repeat of the first one. Some people can't accept change... Very good game.
7430) The best game.I love joel and the play every day. This is a masterpiece, it would be my nomination for the game of a generation, this was the first open world game that I played and what a way.
7431) This game is an absolute masterpiece. The review bombs are mostly from haters and trolls and anyone that is against lesbians. Do NOT take them seriously. The gameplay is much improved since the first game. The world is much bigger. The story is compelling and has so much character development it's insane. The game is beautiful. The reviews from all the people saying it's a zero are mad because they didn't get the happy ending they wanted where they all hold hands and sing Kum ba Yah at the end. It's an apocalypse, a dark world that has negative consequences when you do bad **** It's not supposed to be a game where they all **** live.
7432) Disregard the user score for this game as it has been bombed by trolls. Only way to get an honest idea about the merits of the game is to read an actual review. Sad ...
7433) I do not understand such a wave of hatred for this story. The story just perfectly shows the characters and reveals the main theme - the cycle of hatred. If you did not understand the main message, most likely you were attentive to the wrong things. Many thanks to Naugty Dog for the amazing sequel. Have a nice day, everyone!
7434) 10/10 game of the year, 30 hours of pure satisfaction. Haters shut up!!!!!!!!!
7435) Just finished the game, don't believe all the negative comments. Story, music, graphics and gameplay are amazing. Play it and see for yourselves.
7436) Took me about 28 hours to finish the game and I thought it was incredible from start to finish.  The gameplay is a big improvement over the first and now you can jump, dodge, craft more items, and obtain more skills.  The exploding arrows were personally my favorite item to craft!  The ending was sad but it made sense in my opinion.  It really makes you feel for every character and their situation.  No one is a hero in this game.  Overall this was probably the best game I’ve ever played and I highly recommend!  The people who give it a 0 rating either haven’t played it or are too immature and closed minded to understand it.  Highly recommend!
7437) Story was somewhat weak, but I feel like the game was still amazing and definitely a must play
7438) This game actually good, story, gameplay, and combat system is very very good. I think this will be a game of the year 2020. And the grafik very good and amazing. I don't know why the user score is 4,3
7439) Absolutely fantastic game.  The story is better in the first one, but this still has a great story and it is told well.  Not a perfect game, but all my complaints are small and nitpicky, nothing to drop a point.  The details in the game are amazing, so many unique assets make every room feel unique.  Definitely well worth playing.
7440) Awesome game. Music, gameplay, history. She doesn't deserve a low score. Everyone should play this
7441) So many trolls, so much hatred. No matter how terrible one might find the plot to be, the game surely does not deserve 0, with its tremendous achievement regarding sound, level design, gameplay, graphics and animation. Just ignore the haters and experience this awesome game. The plot is dark, brutal and unrelenting. It's what I was expecting. The final scene was quite sad, but not every ending is happy, it's just like real life. People claiming that games are not supposed to be about politics are frustrated because this game has so much representation and they can't accept that different people are represented. There is a black man who is a leader, a lesbian woman (Ellie), a bisexual woman, a trans boy, asian people, people with disabilities... I mean, the game represents life as it is. And yes, it's political. To represent marginalized people in games is a political act and one that hopes to make gamers a little more empathetic. By the way, empathy is key to understand characters' decisions and motivations. It's a game for a MATURE audience.,This is the best game of the generation. One that everyone should play. It doesn't matter if the plot will not appeal so much to you, you're still going to love to play this game. It's a majestic evolution of the first part.
7442) The Last of Us Part 2 is an amazing game with ''controversial'' topics that may trigger some snowflakes. If you don't like women or gay people or transgender people then don't buy this game. Go lock yourself in the closet as the world evolves without you. Anyway, this game is for mature adults. You will have to kill a lot of people and handle topics that might not be suitable for children. From the best animations I've seen in this generation to incredible gameplay and story, you really get why Naughty Dog is known to be the best in the bizz. Its hard to go into details without spoiling but I say this is really worth it. Do not be discouraged by the review troll bombing. I highly recommend this game for people who love post apocalyptic settings, survival crafting, and horror elements.
7443) This game does not deserve hate, I liked it although it is not perfect, but still it does not deserve a bad calification un the rating
7444) Thank you Naughy Dog, you've change me vision about world another time!! 11/10
7445) Fantastic game. Beautiful crafted and built to tell a story. If you’re expecting a groundbreaking mechanical juggernaut or choices that greatly impact the story then you will be disappointed. The best way to experience TLOU2 is to play the game and see what the writers want to tell you. Let them tell you their story and you will be very pleased with the end result.
7446) Hit all the right chords of my heartstrings. Amazing, compelling, solid and thought provoking narrative
7447) It's a good game for me, and I love the first part too. The Haters can lick my balls :v
7448) Best game I have ever played. When you go into this game you must have an open mind and be ready to get through some not so happy parts. Some are frustrating and some are so amazing you’ll be gasping for air. The gameplay is so smooth and the fight scenes are so real you feel like you can see every little movement with such detail. The story tugs on your emotions so much. I had some points I was jumping out of my seat and others I was grabbing the tissues. It is utterly beautiful and everything ND promises it would be. But you cant let the ultimate message go right past you. It is very thought provoking and really the ending is up to interpretation enjoy the game while you can still play it for a first time it’s worth it and you will never forget it if you don’t let one or two things prevent you from enjoying all of it. Sorry about
7449) It's an amazing game. And it's an awesome follow up to the first game! I would definitely recommend playing this game.
7450) At the start i had mix felings but when i saw the one i once hated story ever thing started to make sense and in the end i was very impressed buy every thing.
7451) Im rating it a 10 to pump up the user review, don't believe the low scores. people are just butt hurt over the leaks,spoilers, and quote SJW propaganda **** and crackpot conspiracies about the games development, play ot for yourself an see it to the end you will not be disappointed
7452) I started this game at 17 pm after getting home earlier from work and got captivated in that world. It was around 4 am I realised, that I didn't even eat and I was actually tired.,,Now after the weekend I'm 20 hours in the story and the game is amazing.,The graphics are beautiful, the details are insane and i really like how deep the characters are. You can see and feel, that this world is not just as black and white as it seems in the beginning.,I love how Ellie feels the need for this journey but detests the things she needs to do.,I love and hate at the same time, that this game manages to make me actually like the antagonist and I somewhat don't want her to die.
7453) While we are living in the world of such hate, where people spent their free time writing hateful reviews with swear words and death threats, it's so important for companies and smart consumers to not pay attention to inadequate behavior. Sadly, a lot of people can't control their anger and appreciate the game wisely. Maybe, there is not the best story ever written. Maybe, there are a lot of differences from the previous part (which is not a con, actually). But when I see the visuals, gameplay, when I pay attention to the details, I just can't say, that this is one of the most amazing games ever created. And girls are just the best. Thank you for that masterpiece. That was an awesome journey. Special thanks for the LGBT+ community representation. Love wins
7454) Brilliant game with stunning graphics and unique story elements. Game deserves better ratings
7455) Firstly, ignore the bad reviews. If you liked the first one, you'll love this one. A finely crafted immersive masterpiece that gave me exactly what I wanted and surprised me with things I didn't know I wanted. I can't praise it enough, simply spectacular.
7456) This is an amazing game with a great story to tell. Everyone giving it a 0 are trolls
7457) A perfect game!!! Story and gameplay are incredible. I don’t understand the hate to a masterpiece of game. All the last power of the PS4 generation is here.
7458) I don't understand all this hate. The game is amazing! The graphics are perfect and everything that i loved from the first game is here. I miss Joel too but i was sure he was going to die... Sure i would change some things from the story like giving Joel more time with Ellie. But still some bad choices in writing doesn't make a game that bad. There are far worst games that got better user reviews than this. Wake up!
7459) incredible and spectacular, the best experience in a video game.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
7460) Absolutely a masterpiece of gaming history, no doubt. I avoided all spoilers but had a good idea Joel was gonna die because of the uproar on the internet, though when I started playing as Abby I couldn't stand her at first, I was actually throwing myself off the top of buildings at first to get my revenge for Joel. First time I've purposely killed myself in a game! Ha. But I gotta hand it too naughty dog, by the end I actually liked her and felt for her, I thought the ending was sick and it was better revenge than killing her for Ellie as she killed everyone close to her  and left her alive with the guilt that they all died because of her revenge on Joel.,The game is **** awesome and to give it 0/10??? Wow u gotta be bad butt hurt over Joel for that ha
7461) Not that bad as people say. Review bombing is a thing unfortunately. Yes there are plotholes, pacing is messy, too much political crap. Still a lot better story than 99% of the games on the market. Gameplay is similar to the 1st game but the level design and fluidity of animations make it a much better experience. I would give it a 7, rated 10 here becauae the hatred of the disappointed whines is too much, tryin to balance it out.
7462) This game is considered the biggest game in PS4. I don't know if that's real, but the game is f****** awesome. The first one is better, for me, but the OST in this game is G-R-E-A-T. The story is something that I'm not going to talk about because much has already been said about that. The gameplay it's perfect if you liked TLOU 1, It's simmilar, but it's way better than the old one. Personally, I'm not going to listen to the negative scores 'cause I know, I'll kill my enemies, when they come...
7463) Absolutely fantastic gameplay. Beautiful graphics. Never a dull moment. It really shows how you need to see both sides of the story to come to a conclusion.
7464) The gameplay and graphics exceeded my expectations, the storyline may not be to everyone’s taste but don’t let that put you off this game is Incredible
7465) The story is incredible. I am fall in love in this game! For sure it is 10/10.
7466) *if it weren’t for the average score of 3.9, I’d give this game an 8 but I’ve chosen to change that to a 10 to help boost the rating more.,The Last of Us Part ii delivered a great gaming experience for me. Despite some very controversial plot points, I overall enjoyed playing this game. It took me a couple days to complete with a playtime of around 26 hours so I doubt a lot of the users giving this game negative reviews have even played through the game fully as they were only posted on the release day.,Story: 6/10,One of the weaker parts of this game. I questioned a lot of major plot decisions such as how the ending was left and killing off Joel. Joel’s death felt too rushed and insignificant for such an important character. It was sudden with not much buildup, and his death felt somewhat pathetic for such a strong character. It didn’t feel plausible, as I doubt Joel would usually trust strangers so easily. I felt this scene could’ve been handled a lot better.,The decision to let Abby live at the end left me feeling rather unsatisfied. For Ellie to go through all the effort of hunting her down and killing lots of people on her journey for her to NOT kill the very person who murdered Joel came off as strange. The message of revenge not being the answer is good but.. just not in this case.,My favourite aspects of the storytelling were by far the flashbacks with Joel and Ellie. These were handled very well and had me smiling all the way through. The bond between the two was shown perfectly. The pacing of the game was very nice (apart from Joel’s death feeling rushed) and left us with some beautiful moments like the first game did. A favourite of mine was Ellie playing the guitar to Dina.,Gameplay: 9/10,The gameplay was practically the exact same as the games predecessor, except with a few added mechanics. This isn’t really a complaint as I thoroughly enjoyed the first game’s gameplay.,Loved the AI, as it felt like I was fighting against real people. Their walk cycles weren’t as predictable and the fact that they each had names and reacted to the deaths of their comrades and pet dogs was a nice touch. This almost had me feeling bad for them.,Started off easy but started to incorporate harder battles about half way through.,Graphics and Design: 9/10,The graphics were stunning, as expected from Naughty Dog. Some scenes almost looked photorealistic. The lighting was especially great, setting a variety of moods for each scene.,Areas felt somewhat linear, but this doesn’t bother me much as it’s a game focused on story over exploration. Each area was designed very well and I loved the small details inside the houses.,Sound design and Music: 10/10,The best part of the game. The music was beyond beautiful, capturing the feelings of each scene perfectly.,Sound effects were also amazing and very immersive. Not much else to say here as it’s just perfect and I have no complaints.,Characters: 7/10,Contrary to popular opinion I love most of the characters. Ellie and Joel will always remain my favourites but Dina and Jesse were a nice addition to the game and I liked seeing them on scene and seeing them interact with Ellie.,Only thing that brings down this score is Abby. She’s a god awful character who even though I’m supposed to have empathy for, all I feel is rage towards her. Having to play as her was unbearable as I hold so much hate for this character. She wasn’t likeable at all.,Replayability: 7/10,Gameplay was fun and I love playing as Ellie, but having to see Joel die again, playing as Abby and knowing how the game will end sort of ruins the experience a little. Give it time and perhaps I’ll play it again on a harder game mode. It’s worth playing again just for that one flashback at the dinosaur park to be honest.
7467) Okay so this is my first time publicly reviewing a game, and i wasn't intending to do so but i feel like owe this game some justice and have to defend it since it's getting review bombed for absolutely no reason. This is a masterpiece, clearly one of the best if not the best playstation game of all time. A huge improvement from the first game, gameplay wise, graphics wise and even the story is better. We can clearly see the evolution of the characters between the first and the second game, they have matured and are far more complex than in the first game. I get that Joel dying in the first few hours of the game must be a huge turn-off. But this game is all about revenge and it delivers its objective. I found it absolutely intelligent and smart to let you play as both Ellie and Abby because in doing so, you can relate to them and you can clearly see why they both did what they did. Abby wanted to avenge her father. Ellie wanted to avenge Joel, each one of them clearly had a valid reason to justify the atrocity and brutality of the events that happen in the game. I felt each and every bullet coming out of my bullet. I felt every bullet getting in my body. I COULD relate to these characters. Now the infected added a whole thing to the game, killing them was as challenging and scary as ever, i still cannot get over the huge infected with multiple heads, i was terrified. Thank you Naughty Dog, thank you Neil Druckmann. You've made us happy in a really tough time. The game is polished as it should, and clearly looks great. I don't mind games getting delayed if the end result is going to be as amazing as this. A masterpiece.
7468) I don’t understand who are these people who don’t like this masterpiece of storytelling. Perhaps it’s because I’m over 40 that I felt the most emotional over this game than any other piece of media I’ve ever consumed. Throughout my play through I was constantly on the edge of my seat with my mouth open and butt clenched enough to turn coal into diamonds. By the time the credits rolled I, a 43 year old man was sobbing. I can’t wait for the HBO show so that more people would get to enjoy this unforgettable experience.
7469) I don’t get why the hell everyone hates on this masterpiece, it looks beautiful the story is beautiful, the characters each have there own stories that are explored throughout the game. The ending had me almost in tears. This is a once in a lifetime game.
7470) One of the best games ever, I don’t understand why people are so salty jus because Joel dies, but is the best in everything, just enjoy it
7471) Absolutely amazing game. Loved it. Was satisfied with the story and progressive message.
7472) I believe this game is one of the best looking games ever to come out. The settings,the monsters and charecters look amazing. There are several moments of actual terror and good jump scares. The story makes you think of the consequences of your actions especially when it comes to revenge. How many times have we murdered without thinking about it. In this game we see both sides and end up feeling empathy for both sides. I loved it from start to finish i really did.
7473) Really great game, excellent visuals, intense gameplay, awsome level design, and a deep story.
7474) [SPOILER FREE],Just finished this emotional rollercoaster of a game and I can say it has left me throughly wrecked. As you play through this game, you’ll begin to question your morals and sense of justice. It’s really an experience that’s all about perspective. However, in my opinion, a great deal of empathy is required to fully enjoy it. In terms of gameplay and pacing, it’s truly a harrowing journey which sometimes will feel like a never-ending series of encounters. For me, it made me treasure the rare peaceful moments even more. The combat system was really well done, making you feel every hit you take and dish out, melee or otherwise. Definitely would recommend getting this game, just for the sheer whirlwind of emotion it puts you through. Please ignore the bad reviews and give this game a chance. It’ll be one to remember for a long time. I’m currently at a loss for words as to how I feel upon completing it. Truly.
7475) The plot of this game is really amazing, unfortunately I was not able to play it because I do not have my own PS4 console but watching I felt a thrill.  I don't even know how to describe it, the character dialogues are very natural and sometimes I didn't even feel that this is a gameplay from the game just an action movie.  It really is a recommendable game.
7476) talking serious, that game (for me) it is one of those games that you play (or watch) and when it's over you question your own reality and you change your perspective of your own world. sure it is a real masterpiece.
7477) Plot, art, sound — all perfect. Thanks to the team of ND. Can’t wait to see part 3
7478) I will not spoil this game.  It is incredible how seamless the story transitions are handled.  There’s a tactile, visceral quality to this polished masterpiece.  You feel each pain, each passion articulated through pointed dialogue and beautiful affection from the characters.  As a sequel to one of my favourite games (top ten list) having played through it five times, this does not disappoint and half way through this continuation, has exceeded my expectations.
7479) At first: graphic, gameplay, sound - 10/10 no questions,I think the game doesnt deserve the hate cuz u have to play a (by the community) hated character. They changed it into an good and thinkable end.,One more think: After playing this game it made me really think about it after this ending. Feels like some Love.,Not many games did that. Also 10/10 for that, no other way
7480) Perfect as much as Uncharted 4.,Great gameplay and story. Can not wait to see how this game will looks like on ps5
7481) Finally done. One of the greatest games i ever played! Congrates to Naughty Dog!
7482) Brilliant, really unsure as to why this has such a low score. The story was captivating, and oooffftttt that hospital scene with Abby was insane.
7483) A masterpiece!!! Enjoyed from start to finish...Praying to god for a part three!!
7484) Just finished the game now.,I understand why people may not enjoy the story, it does slightly drag at times and the ending is going to divide a lot of people.,However I think by the end of the game I could see the story through both of the characters eyes. I think this is great story telling. I was very happy with the ending.,The gameplay is very much similar to the first game just more polished and refined. There is nothing more satisfying than having very little ammo left and planning your way through a bunch of Wolves or Scars.,Overall I really really enjoyed this game.
7485) DID NOT DO THE FIRST GAME JUSTICE,did i bawl my eyes out when joel died? Yes. Did I think he was killed off way too fricking early? Yes. Do i think they were pushing their leftist propaganda? No. Do i like Neil CukMann? No. Did i think the sex scene added nothing to the story and that they could have just be in bed after, like with Ellie and Dina? Yes. Did I hate how they tried to humanize Abby after every single thing she’s done? Yes. But did i end up kinda being okay with her character? Unfortunately. Were the fingers being bitten off necessary? I mean i thought she was still good at playing the guitar, so prolly not. Did i enjoy the new mechanics? Yeah sure, i actually thing being able to break windows makes things a bit more interesting. Should the abby chapters be shorter? Yes. Did it make any sense to humanize yet another enemy (scars)? NO, looking at you Owen, get outta here with ur world peace ass. I mean the only reason I’m giving this a 10 is because i want people to watch streams/playthroughs or just simply play it themselves and decide if it’s a shetshow I personally would’ve given the game a 7/10 but because they made me wait 7 years for this, because they forced me to play as Abby before we knew anything about her and because they killed off Joel too early on,,, i’m giving the game a 5/10.,I’d also suggest peeps would stop saying it’s shet and post golf memes (they’re big pp memes btw) and instead be more articulate as to why you hate the game. Because people like Troy Baker are getting discredited alongside the game. Also YOU ALREADY KILLED JOEL WHY KILL OFF JESSE??? TBH I THINK DINA SHOULDVE DIED AND JESSE SHOULD’VE LIVED. AND OH FUCME HOW DARE YOU TOUCH TOMMY YOU PSYCHOPATH. But yeah, ok game, v good graphics. i’d suggest waiting for the price drop if you kinda wanna play it but not really.
7486) Tbh, I hate Joel's death in the game. I wish it could be a brighter story about J and E. But I have to say it's still a masterpiece, at least for me.
7487) I love this game! it is without a doubt the best of the generation, the gameplay is perfect. The only negative point is that the Plot is inferior to the first, but it is very good anyway
7488) This is truly a masterpiece in modern day game development. Everything, from audio, visuals, storytelling, gameplay is excellent. It really is worth experiencing for yourself, regardless of what others might feel about it. Naughty Dog's knack for storytelling and amazing attention to detail have delivered one of - if not the best gaming experiences to date.
7489) Finally finished this masterpiece,And what a game it is, I have never had such an emotional journey in a game ever.,My thoughts so conflicted throughout.,People who say there is no emotional attachment in games are so wrong, this game proves it.,I cried, I laughed, I raged, I even got to points, where I was like I can't do this, while turning to my partner and saying what do i do, I don't want to do that.,Just epic, marvellous, magical, wonderful and a gift.,Best game I have ever played, and best story I have ever seen,Thankyou naughtydog, for giving us this masterpiece,10/10 all day long. Wow
7490) A wonderful walk in this horrible universe ;) I've love every second of the game !!! Thanks for all your hard work Naugthy Dogs !
7491) Since its release in 2013, The Last of Us has firmly held a place on my podium as one of the best games of all time. Having played through the first instalment 7 or 8 times over the years whilst I patiently waited for the Part II, its fairly safe to say that my expectations for The Last of Us: Part II were extremely high and I was NOT disappointed… What a masterpiece! Harrowingly beautiful and shockingly captivating to the end. I never read reviews on a game until I have completed it, so when I learnt from a follower whilst  streaming the end to our macabre journey last night, that the game had been completely bombed by reviews, I was stunned. Having now read a heap of reviews, a number of which came in just a hours after the games release, despite the game requiring 20-30 hours of gameplay; I feel it is imperative that the game receives the ratings it deserves. So here we go… (N.B. - Completed on Survivor Mode).,,The gameplay is excellent. A solid 3rd person view that sits in sweet spot to behind the character, not being to close to obstruct and not so far as to make distant targets hard to see and camera angles are reasonably flexible. Aiming and shooting were pretty standard for a modern 3rd person shooter. The enemies AI was outstanding, just when you thought you had their pathing worked, they would change it up on you as you got closer or moved to get a better angle. Enemy ‘tells’ were subtle and sometimes hard to gauge, making melee combat that bit more difficult (which is good). This leads me to probably my biggest pain point for the game… I expected it to be harder, particularly given that when selecting ‘Survivor’ you are prompted with a warning advising against selecting this difficulty on your first playthrough. In terms of music, the scoring for this game is in my opinion without rival from any game to-date (think this comment speaks for itself).,The graphics are stunning, despite the developer’s limitations on the PS4’s out-of-date hardware. It would have been amazing to see the potential with say, NVIDIA’s Ray Tracing. The environment is beautiful, amazing land and cityscapes that were well bordered so that you weren’t frustrated by the fact that the character was stopped by a brick on the ground that they could easily step over to move past into the area that lay beyond. Character design was excellent, even though it was obvious from the outset that developers had revisited Ellie’s appearance to remove further confusion between our protagonist and the actress, Ellen Page. Also, the design of Abby’s military muscle build was an admirable shift from the typical sexy/beautiful female characters, that screams “this game was designed by men”. That of course leads me to the final and most controversial point of the game, the story. (Warning: Spoilers ahead) As a true fan of the original instalment, I cannot fathom how people are attacking the story. Given that a large number of the negative reviews came hours after the games release, perhaps people were annoyed by an intro that was not huge on information, but what good thriller ever divulges the plot upfront. Jovial Ellie is now an emotional teenager with ‘daddy’ issues and as we learn, rightfully so. We are also confronted right at the start with a scene similar to the ‘Glen & Negan’ moment from TWD, were we come to terms that our hero from the last story will not play a significant part going forward; just as the ‘Glen & Negan’ scene did, this likely lost peoples interest going forward, but hey.. death is a part of life. As the story progresses flashbacks help stitch together the events of the past 4 years for Ellie and we are forced to understand that there are different sides to every story, as we play through the eyes of our new anti-hero, Abby.  Was it the story I expected? No… but it was a story of loss, heartache and revenge (with a serving of PTSD), which quite frankly makes sense for kids raised in a brutal post-apocalyptic world. Did the developers make our little Ellie a lesbian? Yes… But seriously, it is 2020 people, it is time to move on. There were of course bits that frustrated me with the way the story went, but that’s to be expected given that the story didn’t go the way I expected. Being forced to play as Abby in the theatre annoyed me, as I wasn't sold on her redemption yet, and found myself occasionally run at Ellie just to see her blow a hole in Abby’s face. The end also left me wanting, But expect this was purposeful to set up a potential Part III (i.e. Fireflies and Ellie's wish to save humanity).,,If you have not yet played the game or finished it; I implore you to STOP, get off this site, go to your local store, buy the game and complete it with an open-mind. Decide for yourself. At the end of the day, whilst this is a darker story, it now easily sits side by side with the first instalment on my podium as one of the top games of all-time.
7492) No words for this game, I can only say that this game ended my emoticanal state and my god this game is **** good, not just the game but the soundtrack is impeccable. I can't stop crying.
7493) I finished my first play through last night at 32 hours. The games environment is stunning, the story was one of the best I’ve played. The twist and turns of an emotional heavy campaign, had me on the edge of my seat & my heart rate up. Originally I wanted to kill Abbie more than anything, after the traumatic scene with Joel. I couldn’t wait to get revenge on the team. As Ellie works through, Nora, Owen the pregnant Mel, you can’t help but feel for them. Then their deaths dawns on you, when the shoes are on the other foot as you playthrough as Abbie, suddenly you don’t want them to die, Abbie herself I ended up warming to her character. As you play fetch with Bear & take Alice on your mission. The little moments that you find yourself smiling.  The part where you run into the aquarium & the truly horrific scene of Alice (the dog) lying motionless in a pool of blood on the floor, the room where Owen & Mel lay, it hits you differently.  It really is a dark brilliant written revenge story & nobody wins. Story aside, The games attention to detail is phenomenal, the world seems truly alive. The combat mechanics are something else. Every kill with every weapon truly feels different in each environment, never has a game made me struggle to kill, but I genuinely hated killing the dogs. (I’m a dog person) The soundtrack is amazing. The Gameplay on Scar island might just be the most  impressive thing I’ve ever done on a PlayStation console.,,In summary for me this game is nothing short of a masterpiece. It’s a must play for yourself, even if you’ve heard spoilers. Turn your sound up high & just enjoy.
7494) Best game ever. Gameplay is evolved and better. Protagonists are believable and well written. Puzzles are fun. The intro is amazing.
7495) I tried to give it a negative review because I did not like the game but it wouldn't let me me so I try a 10 and see if that works
7496) This game is not very good. Something about it just doesn't seem right to me. The graphics and gameplay are good, but the most important part, the story, is just bad.
7497) i liked Abby.I am sorry for Joel.This game be goty.You will see.İ think you should play this video game.
7498) Bottom line is that this is one of the most amazing gaming experiences that I've ever had. The Proudboys and other incel groups had a coordinated review bombing campaign. This is the second wave of gamer-gate and it is disgusting to see.  Maybe you won't like it, maybe you will. I loved it.
7499) Let's start with the elephant in the room. Following the leak, people of the Internet rose up to call out The last of us 2 for having a agenda. The introduction of Abby made those people lose their mind and the game was boycotted. (Fun fact: Abby is not trans like those people thought, she's just swole as hell and I love it!). Being a fan of the first game, I think it was only fair to give Naughty dog a chance and try out the game before judging. Not only was there no "agenda", the leak mislead people to think it was a way bigger deal than it is. Now the game is very similar to the first one, it plays almost the same and I don't think it is a revolution of gaming. As for the story, it is a pretty standard vengeance story. It even worried me while playing that it would be all it had to offer. I was wrong. I won't say too much as this game as it should be played the most blind possible.,,If this whole drama surrounding the leaks taught me anything, It's that you should make your own mind about games. Play it for yourself, or if you are reluctant, watch a play-through. I can say without hesitation that if the leaks didn't happen, this game would have the same user score as the critics. If you were a fan of the first one, the second opus is for you.
7500) This is a masterpiece, there are a lot of haters out there, dont listen to them, give it a try and experience a great paced adventure, this is an awesome piece of work. I loved it =)
7501) Perfect! Masterpiece! A lot of great questions about our humanity. That's such a necessary game.
7502) To those hater, play the game first then u can judges! Get a life loser!
7503) Not bad Neil. You ruined a game and turned it into a raging dumpster fire that will keep the homeless folks warm all winter long. Have a 10/10 for my subverted expectations.
7504) It’s been a long time since a game actually made you care about the people you’re murdering. Each shot, each scream, each decision is a drop of blood on your hands. If you’re a someone that would prefer a kid’s game, this game is NOT for you. Here, people die, choices have consequences and humanity balances on a cliff. Furthermore, the outstanding visuals, sound and playability will complement this journey from the start to the very end.
7505) The game is a great game, has a lot of different mechanics and stuffs compare to the first 1 but still both of them are great games
7506) An excellent creation from the naughty dog. Amazing sight, atmosphere touching story. Although I think Joel's death was early. If Joel had been killed then they could have done it halfway through the game or even later. Regardless, The Last of Us 2 is the greatest work of the Playstation 4 era, but perhaps the entire gaming industry, her greatest work The Last of Us 2.
7507) The story is made to stab a knife on you, it will destroy you, you will be angry for the things that happens, but you need to understand that this is a world where these and worse things can happen, the death of Joel is the consequence of the things he did in the final part of the first game, and if you think with a cold head, you know that Abby had more than one reason to kill him, i'm not defending her, i wanted her to die too and i was angry when Ellie let her escape, but then i understood why she decided this. You may hate or love the story, but you can't deny that the rest of the game (Gameplay, Graphics, Level design, etc) are the top of the industry right now.
7508) I had to make a metacritic just to vote and give this game the score it deserves. Metacritic, you guys need to require people to show a receipt as proof of purchase because look how unfair this is. This game is being blasted with negative reviews and scores by either anti LGBTQ bigots or Xbox fanboys. Really, those are the only people hating on this. So sad because it will make a lot of developers scared to show representation to all creeds of people properly. However, I'm proud of Naughty Dog. The Last of Us Part 1 is my favorite game of all time. Until The Last of Us Part 2 came out. The game is flawless, from the gameplay down to the story. Yes, it's shocking what they decided to do, but this game has always been grounded in realism. In real life, the hero doesn't always get to live. Deal with it, and move on. Don't sabotage the game because you're butt hurt over that, or because you're a homophobe
7509) Awesome game. I don't understand all the hate about the story, it's great. Play it!
7510) The best game of this year period. Graphics wise is a master piece, the gameplay is better than the fist one, and history wise maybe some people won't like it but it's great.
7511) The best game ever played. Have no words more. Naughty dog made a huge work. Waiting for the 3rd part
7512) I finished The Last of Us 2 moments ago. I am in tears. This game affected me emotionally in ways I couldn't imagine. The Last of Us 2 is incredibly heavy. I had to put down the controller for regular breaks throughout, but I would still play it again.,I knew about a lot of the bad reviews coming into the game. I even wavered in my support for a while about halfway through the game (those who have played will know why). But everything that confused me, agitated me, dumbfounded me, it all came together in the end and I think this game is a masterpiece, just like the first. Just in its own way.
7513) The best game ever, I have never experienced emotions that the game gave me
7514) this game is amazing. honestly ignore the review bombing and negativity, naughty dog told a wonderful story. it doesn’t leave you with a happy, campy ending, but it’s still a very visceral and realistic story told perfectly as only naughty dog could do
7515) The game is amazing. Gives an appropriate view on revenge addiction, which Ellie is blinded by. A perfect ending to a story with incredible storytelling order that makes you question your empathy and moral choices that have been made in the first part.
7516) Masterfully tied in to the first one, so many layers, so much emotion and heartbreaking
7517) flaming pile of turd. Would rather read edmons cookbook, absolute donkey sheeeeeeeeeittttttt
7518) I loved this game so much. I get why some people didn’t like it because of Joel’s and Jesse’s death. As well as Dina almost dying. I loved this game, the amount of detail they put into it amazed me a lot. I believe that the story was shaped very well and I was amazed.
7519) Please evaluate it objectively, it's really not that bad to be underestimated
7520) Great game, graphics are top tier. Gameplay is smooth and fluid. AI is the best I've seen in this type of game.  And the story isn't awful like many hage been trying to say.
7521) The story, the graphics, the characters development and the gameplay are amazing. This is the best game ever.
7522) This game is the best excluzive on PS4 and the best game on 2020. Sorry, CyberPunk
7523) I just finished the game today and now I’m writing my very first MC review. The game itself is solid and I love everything about it. There were a couple of minor issues that might reduce it to 9.5 but that’s it. I know a lot of people are pissed because certain character died and how they died. But you need to connect all the dots and enjoy the whole story from part 1 to part 2. And also so many people gave this game 0 score a couple of hours after the release. Some of them probably don’t even own a PS4 for god sake. Anyway... I’m extremely impressed by Naughty Dog. This is pretty much beyond video game. It has so much things going on from multiple angles. Every character is livid and different. I feel such deep connection with some of them. Joel, Owen, Tommy, and of course Ellie and Abby. Everything from the story telling to music to graphic to gameplay are brilliant.
7524) excellent game, within reach of the first without doubts but the end is not the best
7525) This game is simply a masterpiece.,Besides the obvious — that is, graphics are phenomenal, the dynamics of the franchise continues to be engaging, the soundtrack is amazing leaving you tense like a apocalypse should —, this game goes beyond anything expected because of its plot.,It is so well developed that I find myself feeling at a loss of words for it, like anything I would say, it would make it no justice.,First of all, it shows us that in a war, there is no right or wrong, no war is a justified war. All sides are cruel. All sides loses (not only their people, but their very own humanity). It talks about fascism, religion fanaticism, it talks about sexuality, includes different ethnicities (and particularly, as an asian myself, I was very pleased with fellow asian characters).,But Naughty Dog must’ve felt that wasn’t enough: I have never, in my life, felt so many emotions while playing a game. And not only that, how the game managed to lead my emotions exactly how it wanted to, the way it wanted to. And not just one at a time. A big ball of mixed emotions all together and bursting. I felt love, sadness, anger, empathy, compassion, horror to human cruelty... all apart and together at the same time. And because we, as players just watching those experiences, feel like that, we can understand how big of a mess must be the characters emotions, because theoretically they are living it. And besides all that, the human relations this game has built are so well put together and truly feel genuine. There’s no such thing as black and white. Right ou wrong. Perfect hero or monstrous villain. I lost track how many times my emotions were so all over the place that I actually cried (and not that rolling-down-cute-tears kinda crying, it was the ugly-cry kinda crying). Or how many times I was literally with my mouth open.,If it were possible to nominate a game to Oscar, I think The Last of Us Part II would deserve to be nominated. This go beyond the gaming world. This is truly a masterpiece. To be able to play it, it was an experience I’m sure I will cherish forever.
7526) This game is even better than the last. The mechanics of game play are awesome, the upgraded crafted is great. There are so many new tools at your disposal I love it. The character development with Joel and Ellie is heart wrenching all the way through and the twists are killer. To the people saying that this game is pushing a politics agenda... wtf? Ellie is gay, we already knew that, and there’s a trans person later in the game. Big whoop. The lgbtq community exists. Time to get over it. I think it’s awesome that there is representation for lgbtq folks in this game. The literal only thing I didn’t like what the listen mode didn’t work as well as the last game, and that’s only because I didn’t realize I could upgrade it until pretty much the very end. So that’s definitely on me. Overall, absolutely amazing game, and anyone who says otherwise is probably just an **** or a baby who didn’t even finish the game.
7527) One of the best games of this generation.,Truly beautiful graphics, gripping story, refined gameplay.
7528) Graphics: 10/10 Gameplay 10/10,Sound/Atmosphere 10/10,The game does make us feel angry about the way some things go at first,but in the end everything is explained and justified. In my opinion an amazing game, not deserving this amount of hate (most are bots or people who have never played it and will never play it). Go ahead and play it l,don’t listen to all this negativity, the game is amazing and I had a ton of fun.
7529) Thank you to the entire team from Naughty Dog and Sony. Red dead redemption 2, The Last of us, The last of us part 2, God of war - these are the only games so far that made me experience all the feelings in the world at the same time: rage, frustration, criminal thoughts, love, understanding, acceptance. It's not beautiful  what you  guys have created, it's something that made me feel alive. Every single person that worked on this game has my respect. Thank you.
7530) Must say i love the game. It puts me in a mood like no other game does.,,Never before have i experienced such a "thrill" to stay alive. The environmental storytelling is (again) on point and sometimes lets you forget that you are playing in a fictional world. All of Seattle just seems authentic and beatifully crafted.,,Admitted: revenge plots are not my favourites but i still think its done in a great way and the most overwhelming thing about the plot for me was that the game made me doubt my/Ellies motives and shows that there is not always just a simple "good or evil".
7531) Dont let all these bandwagon reviews from people who have probably not even played this game stop you from buying this. This game is an absolute masterpiece with amazing gameplay and storyline.. naughty dogg have continually proved they make the best story driven games and this is no different. A must own for any ps4 owner
7532) I'd go with 9, but I think, I have to balance those d*cks with zeroes and ones.
7533) The direction of this game is the persona of the moral panic living in US. It's a shame to see TLOU engaged as a political victim.,Other than that it is the best game of this generation. You should play.
7534) Best game ever made, starting with the grafics, then the plot and the sad sienes, all the game is a master piece that no other company but nauthy dog could do
7535) Masterpiece! All ps4 users must play this game! All of fans of the part 1 will be so happy!
7536) The amount of incels writing reviews in here is unbelievable. The story is the most well written story I've seen in any video game. Don't trust all these fat loser people that are scared of woman and give this game a shot.
7537) This game is amazing! It is never easy for a sequel to be better or even come close to living up the original. The game is graphically beautiful, exciting, fun, nerve wracking and every bit as well thought out and great as the original. I never review anything but, the negative feedback for this game seems to come from an unknown agenda and not an honest review if the game and that is sad. Never listen to the sheep and make an opinion of the game on your own.
7538) Perhaps the average ratings are unter 4 because when you open the Page with mobile phone you only see 1 to 4. Could be that some people are not aware that you can give 10points.  I like the game! Very good graphics and gameplay!,And also good story!
7539) This game is **** only main character from Last of us part 1 die.,But every thing I love it.,I played Last of us for 5 year.,I got many improve for this game.,felling when you use gun is better than part 1.
7540) One of the greatest games I played in years, I will start with the graphics it's beautiful in every way, the design of levels and to how you can use it in exploring and combat situations, talking about the new combat system with the new dodging mechanism it's gives a way more depth, excitement and fun over the TLOU 1.,Gameplay is always intense and let you sweat all the time, the game is So dark, So sad, So scary.,The story is perfection, it's like a novel, you see every group of people and the suffer everyone is having, it's apocalyptic, everything in this game have a meaning the guitar, moth, tattoo, self-forgiveness, revenge and loosing who you love.,In the end if you finished the game you will take sometime thinking and sorting things out.
7541) They have a reason for everything to do in this game. It’s perfect storytelling, just really hard to take in. Never had a game impact like this one did the day after and I stand by giving it a 10. Rip Joel.
7542) So glad I didnt have anything leaked to me, this game ties in perfectly after the first one and has such a bittersweet ending. Graphics are amazing, you can see little writing on fuel stations, actually read notes on whiteboards or posters. Gameplay wise the game runs fine, no game breaking glitches, afew good scares and panic moments; amazing story where I felt having the game show both sides to the story really helped show why each character did what they did. Honestly dont understand the hate or why people are hating this game, to me this can easily be GoTY. And for those those that have finished the game and didnt like it just think back to Joel's song "if I were to ever lose you I'd surely lose myself" and look at how she lost herself
7543) thank's a naughty dog. Thank you for creating a beautiful memory for me. This game has two groups of fans, one of whom loves this masterpiece and the other hates it very much. Please respect the opinions of both groups. Please vote fairly. The story is not the only positive point of the game, you should look at this game from all angles. In my opinion, the story of the game is very interesting and has made significant progress compared to the first version. The game in the second part of the story is much more complicated than the first version in such a way that it shocks the player at most moments. And last but not least, the game is a masterpiece. A masterpiece that will not be erased from my mind for a long time.
7544) I want to start off by saying that first and foremost that good art elicits an emotional response, whether good, bad, or otherwise. So in that aspect this game, although divisive, is already accomplishing what it sets out to do. Get an emotional response. From the time the game opens to the closing frame, I have to disagree with the others. I loved everything about this game. The combat was tight, tense, and frantic. The  pacing of the story, the gorgeous visuals. I think a lot of what sparked the outrage is the very brutal and swift nature of his demise. Everyone is quick to ask how could they do that to Joel!? He did what he did to save Ellie!? Ok, but that doesn't mean he's a good man. All of the characters in our story have grown to do heinous things for the ones they loved after society fell.. Violence begets violence and we know that Joel did **** that we never see that is pretty heinous. I loved seeing the way the paths crossed between Ellie and Abbey and at the end of the day I'm excited to see where the story goes from here. Calm yourselves neckbeards of the world's. Allow yourself to experience a great narrative about the cost of vengeance
7545) One of the finest pieces in gaming history. The visuals are breathtakingly good, the amount of details is unmatched and the story is bold and heartwrenching. Never felt so bad and torn at the final fight of a video game than this one.,Highly recommended for people who love to deal with complex characters and the motives.
7546) offers great gameplay and a great story. well done ND you really knocked it out of the park
7547) I'd like to say that though the story might be divisive to some people i absolutely loved it.,It's still presented in a really good way and a really good sequel to the first game
7548) This is a really game! Massive emotional experience! Don’t hate this game before play it until the end.,The best sound of all the times. Ellie is a awesome protagonist. I love this game.
7549) A depressing story doesn’t make it a bad one.,this was a great tale not only of revenge but of hate, grief, forgiveness and they managed to capture it beautifully!! it really feels like a double album.,crazy to think there are people who passionately hate this game, kinda pity their poor souls tbh. anyway, I’m on my second playthrough and i’m just taking my time grasping everything this world has to offer from amazing environments to creepy and sad collectibles.,this is 100% my favorite game of all time.,10/10 GOTG.
7550) Do not listen to haters. Interesting story, nice visuals and overall engaging gameplay. Improvement from first game in every way.
7551) Simply, the best game I've played in my life. The emotions I've felt during some parts of this masterpiece were amazing. No other game, movie or series has ever make me cry as much. Yes, the reason why people are giving this a 0/10 is the same reason I'm giving it a 10/10. Maybe it's just an opinion, or maybe people just have very closed minds. And well, if we are talking about visuals, details or gameplay, you just can't tell me this guys dont make wonders with a console. Cheers to Neil, Cheers to Naughty Dog, cheers to every single person working on this project, and cheers to every player who can enjoy one of the best games of the generation (if not the best) with an open mind. Thank you!
7552) Exelent game,beautiful graphic,strong story.I don’t know what is wrong in heads that kids which was gives review 0 or 1,2.....
7553) This game have a perfect story, great gameplay, and the easter eggs are awesome.
7554) Incredible graphics, improved gameplay and locations, amazing attention to detail.,Interesting and detailed characters that are impossible not to love.,And a heartbreaking story.,Thanks for this masterpiece. 10/10
7555) Completely in line with first one. Great gameplay, good storyline.. if you liked the first one, I'll love this one
7556) It’s a phenomenal game. Ofcourse they could have killed the Brother instead but nontheless a phenomenal experience !!,Must buy and must play!!
7557) Amazing! IMO better than the first game, they're both a 10 from me so I guess there isn't much wiggle room haha. Won't spoil, play  it! Its just amazing!
7558) This Naughty Dog masterpiece should have a much higher rating than it is now. This is truly a masterpiece of game art, I am simply amazed: by the detail of the game world and the plot, GOD THIS GAME IS THE BEST IN WHAT I PLAYED !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
7559) Im not homophobic but im totally disappointed from the gay agenda of the sequel to one of my favorite games... After all i hope they going to get the message..
7560) Rating this game off of 3 categories, 1) graphics, 2) storyline, 3) emotional connectivity to the character(s). As a colorblind individual with a steady decline in hearing the accessibility options reflected onto the game allowing me to hear cues and see more clearly as I was suggested to go either prone or run through the grass was amazing, I could feel each blade as I ran or hid. The storyline was a different than your normal this is what it is story. The out of the box thinking of the plot and sad moments in the game are the cement and foundation for the next story in the franchise if ever made and help build the characters to who they are, (some people aren't happy with something that happens early on in the game which I wont spoil), but let's be honest, what would the game be if it had not been what it was, more so upset that the incident happens and that you cant play as that character, it's a video game move on, life happens, would you want to play this game back in 2002 with the graphics back then? Probably not. Due to the storyline you feel emotionally invested in the character(s) and their struggle but the ability to have you see things from other perspectives opens your eyes to new ways of thinking and possibly changing your opinion on why something happens, the games themes of, vengeance blinding reason, karma will get you, acceptance and forgiveness are all clearly shown only if you analyze every emotion, every movement to determine why something is happening. This game is a great game and many are upset for the storyline, but that is one out of hundreds of categories you can rate it for, to me personally, I love this game. When you think you're rooting for one, you may suddenly root for another. Thank you
7561) I’m only 8,1/2 hours in. (8 hours and 30 minutes in) and I love it. The graphics are spectacular. People need to understand that Joel oiled a lot of people and what he did was wrong. Everyone knew that! Actions have repercussions. I love Joel so much but that’s what happens. But overall the storyline is amazing!!! Hopefully there’s gonna he a second one!
7562) I don't know how to describe how I felt, after playing the game. I know a video game has never made me feel it. This is a work of art.
7563) The game is really awesome, the most beautiful and savage gameplay I ever play, I really love it and don't forget about the history maybe it doesn't better than the part 1 but this one can stand alone
7564) Beautiful game, amazing acting, and the best accessibility setting out there. Love it!
7565) I would give 11/10 if possible. Perfect game on every aspect and probably the best story in videogames history.,Absolutely disgraceful seeing a 3.8 of the metacritic users, I honestly don't understand what's supposed to prove.
7566) Epic game! Epic story! Thank you naughty dog! Good job
7567) Gameplay awesome, history sad, lovely ans funny sometimes. Its a masterpiece.
7568) 10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only,10/10 for grapchics only
7569) This game broke my heart, I still can’t believe that Joel is dead. What for?
7570) Game of the decade Game of the decade Game of the decade Game of the decade Game of the decade Game of the decade Game of the decade Game of the decade
7571) Even though the spoilers all around the internet before and after the lunch it's still great experience
7572) The last of us 2 is a game that gets pretty dark, but tells a great story. The people bashing it just cause a character they loved wasn’t in the game much are just scared of changed. And anyone whose review bombing it based of someone’s sexuality is a garbage person.
7573) Heartbreaking, painful, beautiful, and outstanding on every artistic level. It is an experience I won't soon forget.
7574) About this game,I dont know how to express this in words, but the sea of feelings i had playing this game, is inexplicable.
7575) Beautiful graphics, satisfying combat, emotional story, and excellent score
7576) One of the best games I've played in a few years. Naughty Dog did an excellent job with this sequel and I find myself deeply immersed in the story everytime I play.
7577) This game is great having alot of fun with it. Looks beautiful. I loved the first one and this is there with it. So many salty snowflake xbox players just giving it a bad rating because they dont have any good exclusives is sad. That's what happened with Days gone. Do what I did dont listen to the ratings just play the game yourself and you will enjoy it .
7578) Can not believe that people are review bombing this game all because there little hearts were broken within the first two hours the game is about hate on both sides and no one can see that? Given what he did in the first game Joel did a very horrific thing and I for one loved that they actually added a end for his actions yeah it saddened me but play through the rest of the game and you will get the bigger picture the story is just as incredible as the graphics or game play you just need to put your dummies back in and actually play the game and not quit after two hours! Naughty dog you smashed it and I'm sorry that little children are bombing this game for you!
7579) I don’t know why the user rating is so low... the gameplay was slow and tedious at times but the story was great. That’s the reason I enjoyed the first one so much to begin with, and the game mechanics and graphics in this game are obviously way better. Overall it’s an amazing game and I think it’s a great sequel to the original.
7580) 10 for the haters ❤️ haters will hate, I 'ain't gonna debate...............
7581) A Brilliant game, a truely powerful and emotional story, and a very worthy sequel.  If for some reason you haven't played Part1, it's a must so it play first.  The game play kept me on the edge of my seat with every encounter feeling challenging and well interwoven with the story being told.  By the end of the story I have been left wanting more and constantly thinking about the characters and decisions made by them.  I'm an Xbox gamer and only purchased a PS4 for Horizon, God of War, Day's Gone, and Last of Us.  This game alone makes the purchase worth while.
7582) The best game ever made...,Incredible story and characters, unbelievable precision and smoothness in the flight's animation.,That's a piece of art
7583) Honestly most dissapointing game of the generation for me,The plot of the game is terrible and totally unacceptable. A mandatory ending that doesn't give the player a choice.
7584) Well I should just go with the flow and rate 0 because the Story is so Bad...but wait´... What is so Bad? That you are losing beloved Characters ... that you are getting different viewpoints not just "I am good" and the rest is Evil. I get that this Black and White is easy, comfy and probably helps getting better User reviews. For me exactly not doing this is genius.,So, I enjoy playing.  Technical it is a 10... for me also the Story is a 10 sorry for not going with the flow.
7585) This isn’t a 3-score game guys, people are reviewing bombing it because they either 1. Haven’t played it and heard backlash 2. There’s a gay character 3. There’s a trans character 4. A character they like wasn’t used throughout the whole story (vague to avoid spoilers) 5. Actually dislike it because the gameplay and story didn’t appeal to them, but if you genuinely dislike it for valid things, it’s at worst a 6. And I think you should play the game regardless of its controversy just to see where you fall and be unbiased. This just isn’t a 3 and I genuinely think this is a 10. Reviews have gotten so stupidly misleading.
7586) Allright...i'm too lazy to make a proper review but personally it's the best game i've played graphics, history, gameplay etc It s all perfect.,as far as I am concerned I have been waiting for this game for years,.  I have placed so many expectations .... and they have all been met.,That s It bye
7587) This game is just awesome. It won't get you hooked for hundreds of hours but it's definitely one of the best games I ever played in over 25 years. Impressive visuals & animations, as well as top-notch world & sound design. TLoU2 is gruesome without glorifying violence & offers a thrilling story with interesting characters.,Don't care for user reviews - over 90% of them aren't real anyway. In 3 days this game has 4x more user reviews than it's predecessor after 7 years.,The accessibility features should become a standard for all games.
7588) Absolute perfection. The developers paid attention to every detail and wrote an amazing story. This game is the confluence of great graphics, fun gameplay, and an exciting story. They improved on the previous game while staying true to it.
7589) Wonderful game, very engaging and beautiful graphics,  naughty dog did not disappoint,  if you're too sensitive about blood,  gay, mature content, you are not going to enjoy it,
7590) This game is a technical marvel. And is a perfect continuation of the first game. Anyone mad about the intro doesn't remember what the first game taught us. The things we love never last. No one complained that infinity war messed with their trailers so I'm not gonna fault this game for the same thing. It takes some leaps and the fact that the studio had the gut to take the story in this direction takes guts. I don't agree with everything but I can't hate it for the expierence it gave when you put your biases from the first to the side. Good job naughty dog.
7591) Amazing game, truly best finish of ps4 generation. Thanks Naughty Dog!
7592) No doubt, TLOU2 will be lorded as something special and will at least be nominated for GOTY and will likely win. To be fair though it's got very little competition because 2020 as far as years go is just awful. We started the year with China swinging it's cock around and stomping all over the rights of Hong Kong, so there goes freedom for one of the biggest economic centres of the world. We spent the next 5 months of it in isolation because of this pandemic; (and if you're in the UK, you're still in lockdown... because the bastard Virus won't go away here). We've had Antifa terrorist **** smashing up and setting fire to major cities across USA and now its spreading to other countries like a virus of idiot thuggery, (no I don't care what you have to say and will block anyone who posts pro-BLM responses, take that as a preemptive **** you" to any terrorist sympathising scum who want to justify the mobs who are smashing up my city, attacking my police officers, destroying my monuments, and doing this all while there's a ****ING PANDEMIC happening. I don't want to hear your **** Got it!). The rest of the year isn't going to get any better. Most economies are in the gutter right now and honestly gaming isn't a priority. Manufacturing is at a standstill, food production is right down so countries like India, Bangladesh, China etc. are going to really feel that as food shortages become a very real crisis. The OPEC trade fallout is utterly destroying the oil prices which is basically bankrupting Russia, Canada, Norway, and the Middle-East; the true extent of this is yet to be realised and my god it's going to be bad. The stock market crash resulting from all this is going to drive us into a depression worse than even the 1929 Great Depression so expect homelessness and unemployment to sky-rocket... and all of this is happening in a USA Election Year, so when the SJWs lose to Trump again they'll almost certainly riot like the petulant children they are; rioting because they live in a country with free open elections... it's disgusting but mark my words it'll happen. (And yeah, Trump is an idiot, but Biden has the personality of old dishwater, and genuinely looks like a confused pensioner half the time. I seriously doubt he had a realistic chance of the presidency). Given all of the above, and to go back to games... what the hell does TLOU2 have as realistic competition right now. Even political outrage is unlikely to dampen it as there's far bigger things to be outraged about politically as shown above. There's almost nothing that can challenge it.,Final Fantasy VII Remake,Marvel's Avengers,Cyberpunk 2077,That's literally it... that's all that's coming this year. FF7 Remake was a bait and switch that left people genuinely angry and with a sense of gaming blue-balls because it was only 1/3rd of the finished game, and it's not really a remake. It will get a few nominations at most out of auteur ego stroking necessity. Avengers looks painfully generic and will be unlikely to challenge anything for awards unless it's unusually good, like Marvel's Spiderman levels of good but moreso. That leaves Cyberpunk 2077 as the ONLY real competition, and honestly, it's just not going to have enough wide appeal to bring people in. As much as we may like it, large sprawling single player RPGs in a cyberpunk world are an extremely niche market.,Maybe there's a few that could be outside challengers. Halo Infinite, Watch_Dogs Legion, Ghost Of Tsushima; all could MAYBE get high acclaim if they actually come out this year. Doom Eternal and Resident Evil 3 MIGHT get some acknowledgement but they were generally considered let downs. Let's be honest here. TLOU2 was likely to win regardless of other games out this year. Only a Breath Of The Wild sequel would dethrone it. It could be a literal dog turd in a bag, and it'd still stand a good chance of winning, even in a good year because the system is pretty much rigged... in the uncontested **** of a year that is 2020, where most games are delayed or cancelled; it'll be almost guaranteed to win.
7593) The best story line of the videogame.,The combat sistem is very good.,And, the level design and the graphics is beautifull.
7594) The Last of Us Part 2 it's a amazing game! I don't understand why people don't like this game
7595) Games like that move the industry forward despite the hate and bigot resistance. The tone is darker, the scenes are well directed, combat is intense. It's not "fun" to play but it keeps your interest till the end.
7596) Truly a masterful piece of gaming, once again naughty dog has shown just how good they are at creating an amazing story with thrilling gameplay that has you engaged at everyone moment
7597) I put this game 10/10, because I fell in love with her.  I liked the graphics, gameplay and the same plot.  Many will say that this game is about LGBT and feminism, and I agree with them, but the agenda is very small.  Someone did not like the death of Joel, the ending, and to understand it you need to completely immerse yourself in this game with your head, you need to compare all the points above and.  Only then will you like the game and enjoy the e
7598) Goty 2020 ...much better then Any Xbox game ...hahahaha Xbox fans became crazy give bad reviews..I think Microsoft pay money for this
7599) I don't want to just compare it with TLOU1 but I think this will help some readers:,,Gameplay 10/10 - everything you love frome the first game, additionaly more enemies, added a dodge move as asmall mechanics for better expression of skill. melee combat feels AMAZING.,,Graphics 10/10 - just beautiful, haven't played a game with better graphics tbh.,,Leveldesign 10/10 - you still have the small linear parts like in the first game; so there is no going back. but the individual parts feel like an open world. sometimes I got lost after messy fights, but you get clues where to go pretty fast. Leveldesign is more diverse and got more interesting puzzle than "find latter and place".,,Game Feel 10/10: JUICY!,,Story and Storytelling: 10/10, I personally love how the world evolved, and i like the answers to open questions just as much as how you start thinking about whats right and wrong after playing it.,The Storytelling is just as beautiful as in the 1st game, thats for sure.,I found myself smiling, laughing and horrified while playing.
7600) This is just to offset the 0 ratings from bigoted snowflakes who can't handle diversity in video games. Grow the f up.
7601) Beautiful, tense and brutal. Definitely not for everyone but I think that's what make it special
7602) I'd give it a solid 6 or 7, it's an enjoyable game.,But I'm giving it a 10 on here to help balance out the review bombs
7603) Can you imagine having so much Cheeto dust in your neck beard or hating women because you’re unable to get a girlfriend / wife to purposely go online to negatively impact a games user score (pretty meaningless) on Metacritic? Well here we are people.,The game is amazing, if you can’t handle abstract deep story telling, or even capable of having multiple emotions, maybe this one isn’t for you.,The fact that the game forces you to play as the initial antagonist imo was a brilliant move, as I, originally could NOT WAIT to stop playing her cause I was so angry with her, halfway thru her story I realized what the writers were attempting to do and it was a brilliant piece of writing. I’m so impressed it made me think about revenge and when seeking it to may as well dig two graves.,Brilliant game / brilliant writing / Brilliant art.,10/10
7604) God damn. That’s a hell of a game. It’s astonishing the story the game tells in a way the utilizes the medium in a way I don’t think would be effective in other mediums. The game’s use of perspective in telling the story is incredible and makes for some of the best story telling yet in gaming.,All this while having engaging and fun gameplay mechanics that keep you in the world in a captivating  way. Well done.
7605) The game is just beautiful. Don’t listen to the haters, I bet half of them haven’t even played the game. try it yourself then judge it.
7606) Amazing game, totally worth it. The game is a must have for any kind of gamer, even for the ones not looking for a thriller experience.
7607) It's a great game. Don't listen to the haters, I'm a big last of us fan, and I can say this was an incredible experience.
7608) Tension! This is the best game of my life!,I don't think I can sleep tonight.
7609) This game is just amazing... the best part of this, is after 2 hours playing till the end of the story, every single moment is a life experience, the character are awesome, the city where you play is gorgeous, with a lot of details, and the story leaves you speechless, every second that passes it gets better and better, there's a lot of anger and sadness, there's a lot of blood and violence, and a lot of deaths... it's hard to say how shocking are the situations without spoilers, all I can say is that everyone should play The Last of Us, part 1 and part 2, because is one single story, you don't feel like you are playing different games
7610) One of the best playing game with different story not over repeated things inside.
7611) THIS GAME IS CO COOL!! I’m in love with gameplay and graphics, characters are really interesting
7612) The game is awesome. İgnore the xbox fans. They cant play and they are very angry. Give a chance this game if you are a real player and you can see how a masterpice of you are playing.
7613) I'm utterly confused. The story? What about the story is so bad? The gameplay? It's the same, just with with awesome additions for realism and immersion. Neil, Naughty dog, and everyone else that helped create this game, thank you, I love The Last of Us series, and I hope you bring us more awesome games. To those that say the story is bad, what EXACTLY is bad? If it's the reason I believe,  then clearly you didnt play the left behind dlc of the first game. I'm sorry that they have to go through this nonsense. Thank you for the game, it brought me tears and smiles!
7614) One of the best game in this gen. I don't know how people do to give 3.5 to this game
7615) An absolute 10 GAME!!! Just 3 hours in, but the feeling of playing Ellie again is fantastic. 100% best graphics of this generation on PS4. Gameplay is familiar picks right up were TLOU 1 left it, but with some new additons that make it more fun. Like I said jusf a few hours in but the story already got me hooked.
7616) As a gamer who actually played through the entire game before writing a review, bravo Naughty Dog.,,I'd like to point out that both The Last of Us and the remastered version have just over 9000 user reviews each since their releases, which are overwhelmingly positive, and somehow The Last of Us Part II has 41629 user reviews on the third day since it's release, which are overwhelmingly negative. And if you do some scrolling through the reviews, you'll notice that most of them were written on the release day. It took me 25 hours to plow through the story and beat it on the easiest difficulty with minimal sleep and breaks over the course of two days, so there's no way that all these people actually beat it on release day.,,The new game has improved on a lot of the existing features and added a few new ones. Weapon and player upgrades have been expanded. The listening mode has been improved. There's plenty of optional objectives that usually result in upgrade materials, collectible items, or even a new weapon on occasion. There's new terrifying infected enemies and a boss that I'm sure will cause some nightmares. The game also provided some of the most beautiful scenery I've scene in a game yet and I had to stop several times to take a screenshot of the moment.,,As for the plot, there's way too much unwarranted hate. I loved Joel and I hoped that he wouldn't die, especially after hearing about and avoiding the leaked plot and the outrage, but it would have made sense for him to die at some point in the story. I wouldn't have killed him off so early in the game, and I would've had him go out in a blaze of glory defending Ellie or something, with sad but touching last words to her, maybe in a letter if he didn't get to say them, but I'm not the writer.,,I also noticed a lot of hate, dislike, or contempt for the portrayal of LGBT characters in the game, which is funny because the first game already had that to a lesser extent. Now it's at the forefront and people have a problem with it? Remember when Joel and Ellie had to seek out Bill, and when Ellie swiped one of his gay porno mags? Or the DLC 'Left Behind' when Ellie has her first kiss with her friend Riley? Although, I wasn't the biggest fan of Ellie's love interest, Dina, because she could've done better, but it was her first love, so I'll cut her some slack.,,The story WAS GOOD. Maybe it didn't go into every little detail that I would've liked, or expand on certain characters more, and it wasn't how I would've written it, but it was a good story overall. Putting you in control of the "enemy", Abby, and trying to humanize them and explain their motives was interesting. At one point, you have to try and kill Ellie, and it was hard to do because I didn't want her to succeed, so I let her die multiple times and enjoyed her deaths.,,The game had some interesting characters and it did really well at showing that sometimes good and evil are indistinguishable, which is something they explored in the first game with Joel, the fireflies, and now with the new factions. Everyone was doing bad things for the right reasons. It was all so morally grey. That's part of why I loved the story so much.,,Overall, I give the game a 9/10 because of the lack of multiplayer and improvements that could've been made, but I'll make it a 10 to spite the haters.
7617) Loved it! I'll never understand how vile people can be about something over the Internet. ND talks about the game being about the themes of hate. How ironic that he in turn and Naughty Dog recieve so much hate from people who demand and expect something to be there way that they couldn't produce themselves. Great game
7618) One of the best games ever. If all of you haters wanted the same magic between Ellie and Joel, go play the first part!!!,The violence in this part is beyond everything. Neil Drackman is a **** genius.
7619) Memorable characters, moving story, beautiful graphics, and fun gameplay. The Last of Us 2, like its predecessor, shows how video games can be works of art.
7620) Awesome game, not as good as the first one, but still good,,Graphics awesome,,Ost perfect,Gameplay 10/10,Plot 5/10
7621) Closer to a 9. Just want people who disagree to tell me I’m wrong. Great game.
7622) The game is amazing, graphically impeccable, the gameplay has been improved and it flows very well the storyline manipulates you and you find yourself in doubt about who is hero and villain and question yourself at each different point of view of the actions so far Exciting and impactful, with many hours of gameplay
7623) Best graphics and gameplay. A fitting end to the PS4. Game is around 25 hours long.
7624) Best Ps4 game in terms of narration. Review bombers score can be ignored. All the 0's and 1's are posted by random runners. They haven't likely played the game. It is a big game for Naughty Dog, lengthwise. I spent my time searching here and there for all the collectibles as well as the tablets for player upgrades and tools for weapon upgrades. It took me 27.5 hours to beat the game. It was an emotion filled ride. Must play.
7625) Literally just beat the game. Not sure where all the bad reviews are coming from. Kept waiting for some crazy thing to happen like all these whiney babies have been crying about on the reviews. Remember 99% of them haven't even beat the game. It had some sad parts but that's to be expected, just like the first. Great story, amazing graphics, and had a lot of interesting twists and turns. If you liked the first, chances are you will like this one as well. Another masterpiece.
7626) Insanely hard story to tell, which requires a lot of maturity to understand. although at first it seems unbalanced, it manages to do what so many games fail to with so much gritty content; tell a complex story with intertwining themes so strong you not only see the reasoning of your characters actions but feel the consequences/guilt/shame of them as well.,Overall it was 2 sides of the same story, one of revenge and forgiveness, the other, revenge and consequences.,Masterpiece.,A shame there are sk many negative user reviews before people even finished or played the game, but i guess this is why 'user scores' are seperate. I have no doubt theyll even out over time and people review from experience and not leaked info without any context.
7627) This is a really great and perfect game, graphics and gameplay is really advance and great
7628) The Last Of Us Part II definitely did spur some emotions out of me with the death of Joel. But overall this game was a masterpiece! The graphics, gameplay elements, new enemy types, and combat options were superb. I kept seeing myself get lost in this post-outbreak world with so many things to collect, see, and do. I understand a lot of people are outraged by the death of Joel but if you look past that the game itself is a groundbreaking piece of art, and many game companies should look upon NaughtyDog to make there game as intricate as this one.
7629) I don´t know why everyone is hating this game. Is a masterpiece, people that put 0 in a review without have played the game. Really? Even the worst game doesn't deserve it. Please if you read this just play it and enjoy it.
7630) AWESOME!!,If you played TLOU part 1 and liked then this part 2 has no competition because Naughty Dog improved each area of this production, Thanks Naughty Dog.,,If you "did not like" (in way of speaking), it is ok, but if you are reviewing it:,1. Without even finish it.,2. Because it shows more inclusion (LGBTTQ),3. Just played a couple of hours,4. Because the release was delayed.,Well you have no objectivity or you may "only want to see the world burn".,xD
7631) So much love and hard work put in this game love it !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
7632) Last of us part 2 adds to the amazing original game with a tense and engaging story.
7633) Best game the naughty dog had ever created. It's breathtaking, maybe too much at some  moments, but still I got what they wanted to say to us.
7634) I don’t see the hate from playing the first one I think this is still great I figured it was going to be dark with no happy ending, if you were looking for a happy ending maybe don’t play it
7635) I LOVE this game... It has an open ending, for a potential Part 3 on PS5...,Safe to say: it's the best game I played since PS4 release... And I played a lot of games since then...,Mr Neil Druckmann; you and your team made a MASTERPIECE, Thank you, please stay true to what you do.
7636) 12 hours in,10/10,I am very much enjoying myself this far.,Graphics, audio, story, animation, design, controls.,It's all here.
7637) Amazing sequel with amazing pictures and details.,,The plot is very shocking and very real at the same time.,,Absolute 10 points full score, a strong competitor of the game of the year.,,My friends, lizh
7638) This game is a masterwork maybe abit to long but fantastic .now going for 2 playthrough
7639) I just finished the game, and during the game, I understood all the hate around the game, it's not about militancy, it's about the story, I thought the story was average, they didn't reach the feet of the first, but the hates came while only 1% of the players had the game trophy finalized. Now, after I finished and made my opinion, this became the best game I ever played in my life, the game plays with your mind and will make you think what it wants you to think, from start to finish. This is revolutionary. Keep going, you will understand.
7640) I changed my mind after passing it again . it so hard to realise that  Joel was dead. its a very deep game.
7641) Such an amazing game! Loved the story and game play! I also loved all the characters and the ending surprised the **** out of me.
7642) Despite the big spoiler of Joel's death early in the game (which is an incredible scene by storytelling standards y'all are just dramatic) this game holds up as a fresh new visit to the world of the last of us. the gameplay is touched up enough to be different from the first while maintaining the best bits from it.  The bleak harrowing story is told beautifully by the music and visuals alongside incredible performances by everyone involved.
7643) It is very difficult to start anywhere. Compared to the first game, it didn’t bring the level, at least certainly not in story. The characters and the atmosphere so much better on the first game.,We got two seperate story. Ellie and Abby.,I really like both and what they driven trought the game. But it is really sad Neil Druckmann killed Joel. Like if he killed Nathan Drake. The atmosphere not as good as the first game.,Troy Baker voice acting little bit disapointing too. That strained texas accent is too much. I never heard speaking like that in the fist game.,They over-separated the depressing and the happier parts.,The overall ending after the two characters met at the ending is lack of atmosphere. Ellie at the farm with Dina and after Dina is so empty... At least Abby give us some emotions.,,If they give us only Abby's story in this game without killing Joel and give her an other motivation to find the Fireflies or at least what was left of it would be much better.,And atleast we never know about Joel and Ellie and how Druckman ruined them in this game...,,The first game ending is so beautiful... Compare to THIS...,,Story 4/10,Gameplay 8/10,,Atleast Uncharted 4 has a great and beautiful ending.,And Neil Druckmann did not kill Nathan Drake.
7644) Definitely a controversial story. May be difficult for some people to really take in. Incredible gameplay and graphics. Another win for ND. When the dust has settled, this game will go down as one of the best in history.
7645) This game is long awaited and absolutely worth the wait. The first game didn't need a sequel but I'm so glad it got one because the gameplay had evolved and the story has progressed. It's dark, is gritty, it's very real. Thank you Naughty Dog for providing this work of art. Best movie I've ever played.
7646) Better than the first game  Good graphics and nice controls. The history is amazing!
7647) People took upon themselves to destroy the rating of this game. All because they do not like an homosexual character which is actually one of the most brave and strong characters I ever played with, a resolve like Ripley of alien.  People hate it because Joel dies, because the antagonistic is not likeable or for anything the game ends up with. Not sure why as I haven't ended the game and the 10 is to balance out other reviews with a 0. Gameplay is fantastic, huge improvement and very fluid, graphically stunning and huge areas to explore, enough to get lost. Characterization is fantastic and very deep. The game is one of the most defining ones for this generation of games, give it an honest try, I assure you thst is is a brilliant game.
7648) this low score is completely undeserved hands down this is one of the best games i ever played
7649) I have put 40 hours in this game, i have platinumed it to completion and fully finished it twice. The game is incredible, it does better then the first in every way. Game play is fun and exciting, story is gripping and emotional, acting is amazing. Graphics are beautiful and screenshot worthy. This game deserves to be recognised as one of the greats along with every other naughty dog game
7650) TLOU2... where do I even begin.,The experience of playing... no watching TLOU2 is on par with being forced to **** your wife in the ass, but the catch is she decided to never wipe again. it's like being forced to watch a women **** a dog in a porno and then write a 10/10 review for it because if you didnt you'd starve. swallowing Lester's ball sweat is far more enjoyable than watching this game. It feels like making every wrong decision, but there was always a glimmer of hope that you'd finally make a right decision and everything would be okay. But that never happens. Playing TLOU2 is like having that one friend you always picked for everything in class. But then one day they decide to pick someone else and you're stuck with the girl who constantly hisses at everyone and talks about wanting to be a wolf. 10/10 would recommend
7651) I was looking forward to playing Part 2 since ot was announced. I managed to avoid the leaks, but understood that something happens at the middle of the game that pushed people away. When I got to this point /spoiler/ and played as Abby I was pissed. I took a break and pushed throught the first couple of hours with Abby hoping to get back to Ellie soon. After a while I got attached to Abby and her companions. It just clicked. The narrative weaved its way perfectly and delivered an amazing story about the cycle of violence. Give it a chance. Maybe you won't have fun doing it but you will feel extremely powerfull emotions that go way beyond any other video game I've played.
7652) DO NOT USE THE PUBLIC RATING.,It’s just a bunch of virgin homophobes who think they’re being pushed into an agenda because a character happens to be gay (not even a big part of the story).,The game itself is wonderful. Better than the first, and just a great experience. Trust the Metacritic review.
7653) I wait to finish the game than rate it because I believed in director. The game is mixed up by  hatred ، grief ، love ، anger ، ...  . by far it's the best game I've ever played in my life
7654) Excellent game, the story is not for everybody but it's damn good and surprising. A real masterpiece
7655) Loved the game, and steamrolled through it in a few days. Graphics, world building, and sound design (especially!) were outstanding.,Unlike allot of the other reviews I’ve seen I enjoyed Abby’s chapters, and if anything would like to of had more time learning about the island, and the history of the cult & its leader. I found the gameplay fluid and the constant progression of the story to be well paced.,,The few dislikes I have of the game are way outnumbered by the great elements.,,The ‘take on me’ scene is one of my favourite ever video game moments. Outstanding.
7656) Fantastic storytelling. Engaging gameplay. Amazing environments. The game feels alive and all the characters have a clear arc. Completely immersive
7657) Disclaimer : this game is not a 10 but it is much closer to a 10 then a 0...,,I feel like giving this game o to 4 is totally not okay. I've seen much much much worse game with better rating.,,The last of us part 2 as really enjoyable gameplay (much better than the first one), amazing environment and graphics. The story isn't as great as the first installment but it is still one of the best games I've played in the fast few years. I honestly didn't see any of that "hidden agenda" thing people are talking about.,,Its a really good game but its a shame that people would give a ridiculously low score because they don't agree with how the story unfolds.
7658) The last of us 2 is awesome. I’m sure that most of these people that are saying “ Don’t buy it, it’s horrible “ neither played the game. I beat it yesterday , in my opinion The last of us 2 give us everything that a sequence would must be.
7659) The bad reviews have you guys already played? shut up you don't profiling other people who haven't played this game yet. finished the game and then commented on your experience. Another  F for you no respect.
7660) I feel people are being unfair to this game. I’ll start with what I don’t like. I don’t like the sections that you play as Abby. It’s not that they’re poorly written, I’m just uninterested in her life and finding out her backstory does not give me any remorse for her. It’s a sad world and bad things happen to good people. Although I do understand why she would be so upset, it doesn’t make me want to brutalize her and her friends any less. I don’t want to play as the villain who’s done such brutal things to characters that I love. I think some people are upset cause you play as a play lesbian. I don’t think everyone who dislikes the game is homophobic, I just think that if it were a man and a woman no one would bat an eye at it. I hear a lot of people saying things like , “I don’t mind that they’re lesbian I just don’t like that a gaming platform is being used for politics. “. To me that means that deep down you don’t like that they’re lesbian even if you don’t want to admit it. I’m also seeing people saying that this game is too dark. In the first game your daughter gets murdered in your arms, you almost get eaten by cannibals, and you doom the human race. I think people just aren’t used to see the characters they love die in such brutal ways and I agree it was awful. That’s what makes the game so compelling. I’ve been watching reviews online too and I can almost guarantee some of these guys haven’t finished the game so their opinion is really invalid, but they get to go online and trash it anyways.
7661) This game is an absolute masterpiece, kudos to Neil Druckmann and the Naughty Dog crew. Hands down the best, most immersive, emotionally draining, and intense video gaming experiences of my life. I can’t wait to immediately replay it.
7662) i dont know why these guys are giving low score for this game just because its a exclusive, this game is so good
7663) Probably closer to a 8.5 or 9 but these 0-3s are outright biased BS so I’m doing my part to move it back to a fair score. The games solid, playable, fun, and has an interesting story. At least play it before you give it a 0/10. Please grow up
7664) Gameplay graphics and animations  is top notch story kept me immersed   and it kept me entertained which is what gaming is all about  people cry about everything nowadays  for me it expanded the last of us world and hopefully  sony and naughty dog can make this a trilogy.I also look forward to factions 2 good work
7665) I don't understand this bashing this game is so good. playing at this game before to open your mouth
7666) After 25 hours of play I think I am barely halfway through the story. is a worthy successor to the previous game.
7667) I created this account to write that this game is bigger in scope than the original. Yes some events that happen in the story are too sad. But, this is the story the creative director wants us to experience and I respect that. I disliked playing as a certain character because that character didn’t matter to me. But that is the decision the game creators made and I feel it added to the storyline. The graphics were phenomenal and I can’t believe this is not a PS5. Once more, Naughty Dog has shown us that video games are perhaps the best tools for story telling. What a game! Devastating ending and fulfilling in its own way. The reviews that comment on the political statement can go play some other game. Crime and Punishment isn’t an easy read, but it expands your ability to appreciate literature and makes you a better person for it. If you can’t handle it, there is Marvel.  I wish the ending was different, I wish someone didn’t die, but that isn’t this game. And as it is, this game is a Masterpiece.  Masterpiece.
7668) The gameplay is fun. The music is great. The visuals are stunning. I'd bet half the people who are writing bad reviews haven't even played the game and just watched a streamer play it. The story is realistic and brutal. It doesn't hold your hand and expects you to understand how revenge works. A major theme in this story is that there are no heroes or villains in the real world. Just people who make good or terrible decisions. There is no main character and anyone can die anytime. In a world as brutal as this one, people rarely get a death that they deserved. If you can understand that, then you should like this game.,,In relation to other reviews. It's popular to hate on things in this day in age. It's ok to like things. But also, when reviewing a game it is important to look at it objectively. All aspects of this game are near perfect. The only thing that is controversial is the story. On that fact alone anyone giving ridiculously low scores like 0s or 1s obviously acting in bad faith because its fun to follow the hate train. Taking into account the quality of the game and my personal enjoyment of the story I believe the game warrants a 10/10. Regardless of the trolls and bandwagoners, those who are genuine about their dislike/hate for the game's story show that they care in some manner and felt some kind of emotion. A game that can draw emotion from people is proof that there is something to be emotional about. Therefore, If you're slightly curious, play it first then form your own opinions.
7669) A true masterpiece of storytelling. The people review-bombing this are fools. Joel was never a good person, he was always somewhat despicable, yet he loved and protected those close to him. To the Fireflies, Joel was a heartless villain. And this game aims to address that. You spend the first half of the game despising Abby and her friends for killing Joel and then you go on a killing spree as Ellie, slaughtering these people you see as monsters. In the second half, you play from the other perspective, and come to love the characters you spent the first half of the game murdering. They are good people who do bad things, just as Ellie is a good person who does bad things. Both Ellie and Abby are out for vengeance over the death of a loved one. Both of them are simultaneously wrong and right all at the same time. The game forces you to come to grips with the fact that the NPCS in video games that you kill in cold blood, have people who love them. And to them YOU are the bad guy. It's a lot to handle, and I can't think of another example where it has been done before. There are no bad guys, there are no good guys; it's all a matter of perspective.
7670) DON'T LISTEN TO THE REVIEWS HERE!!!,If you notice like 90% of the bad reviews are written the 19th of June, THE SAME DAY THIS GAME CAME OUT. People are just pissed for a major event in the story. It was out of nowhere right at the start of the game.,They didn't accept it, their mind exploded and they just decided to take down the game here. They actually haven't played it. They wrote the review the same day the game came out, but they also pretend that the game is 36h+. MAD,The story is very good, but if you can't get past THAT moment, you'll never understand it. Many people expected something else and when they got this their brain just went *puff*,,Listen to me, the game is good. I'm giving 10/10 only because i think it's unfair from us to take down a big work that took them 5 years to develop. It's not as good as the first, but i honestly think it's an amazing game, but you can fully enjoy it only if you played the predecessor.,,Btw about the gameplay: yes it's like 7 years ago plus some little new features... yeah, so is that bad? what you expected? a change like GTA from 2D to 3D? Guys, the gameplay of a sequel 99% of the times is the same as the previous game, it's logical. The new characters are good (not everyone is good as the older ones, but to be fair, even in the first one we had 2 elite characters and all the others were just good or average, nothing that good),,Story: 8/10,Gameplay: 9/10,Graphics: 9/10
7671) The best game of this generation!!,,Picture, detail, action, completion, game are perfect performance!!,,You need to be rational.
7672) This game was beautiful. I don't understand why people think there was plot holes everywhere and the backstory for Abby wasn't enough, I felt for her and I understood so much by getting to play as her, at first I wasn't so happy because this girl killed Joel! but in the end I understood why they did it.,The ending made so much sense, the game took such a crazy turn that I didn't expect at all. but in the end it broke my heart. But i'm so happy I got to play it and feel such strong emotions from a game. It had the same mechanics as the first game which I loved, and the character development from Ellie at the end of the game was outstanding. I was on the edge of my seat playing this game and just wondering how it was going to end. I truly am so satisfied with this game. In my opinion, this game was a masterpiece.
7673) A masterpiece,10 times better gameplay than TLOU Part:1 and a really good story that fits well with the story of part one With new lore and places to explore it adds a lot to the universe of The Last of Us.
7674) Hey guys, Miggy here!,I just got through the game The Last Of Us Part 2 & oh my... what a game.,Before we get into my review I first want full disclosure. This review is MY opinion and MY opinion only. Take it with a grain of salt and PLEASE play the game first before finalizing your opinion on the game. Also, please don’t base your opinions on my opinions, I’m only human after all. Anywho,,The way the world and story hook you from beginning to end is exhilarating! It literally made me feel like I was living, breathing, and killing inside the world of The Last Of Us. The story, although surprising and completely unexpected, has left me in awe. It truly leaves an impression. The new characters that we are introduced to add an extra level of depth to Joel & Ellie’s relationship and how that relationship is affected by the world they currently find themselves in, that really make you appreciate them ever the more. It is truly a masterpiece. The gameplay has left me constantly wanting more yet feeling guilty and with remorse for my enemies. It was an overwhelming yet satisfying fight for survival around every corner. You are doing yourself a disservice by not experiencing the feelings and emotions that this game can provide. It is truly Naughty Dogs best take at the 3rd person shooter style of gameplay since, well since Crash Bandicoot. Take that as you will. Overall, The Last Of Us Part 2 has met and even surpassed my expectations. Although I did experience a few minor graphical pop ins and the friendly AI did get in my way once or twice, it just wasn’t enough to dampen the immersion and the experiences I was having with the game. I highly recommend this game to anyone who was a fan of how raw and real the first game was. You will definitely fall in love with this one immediately & amazingly enough, it will make you fall in love with the first game even more than before.,The Last Of Us Part 2 gets a 10/10.,A masterpiece.
7675) One of The best games i had ever played! A game, what makes you wondering and thinking after you had finished it. Truly masterpiece!
7676) this game is amazing in graphics, well told story. Infected, clickers everywhere just amazing but if you have your mistakes and you can't deny it.
7677) I don't know what these 0 reviews are all about. Having played 8 hours so far, it's by far one of the best experiences I've had on PS4. Game looks amazing, worldbuilding is top notch, the story is logical and expected, gameplay is improved from the first game.
7678) There's nothing like the last of us 2, it's a magnificent game that's unique and perfect
7679) Good game good graphics really good storyline a really good challenging game
7680) A masterpiece in its own right. With multiple improvements from the previous game.
7681) Don’t buy into those pricks’ words saying it’s **** writing. They don’t spend 30 hours to dive in the journey, and they are not open minded enough for unorthodox narrative this game has. Seriously, they don’t deserve this. The game has elevated story telling to another level, and I hate to see ppl clinging only to the stuff they r used to. I have just finished the game and it was nothing but hysteria and devastation. Just as it should be.
7682) Amazing graphics. Story is just as engaging as the first one. Super fun stealth play.
7683) Ignore the negativity around this game. Having avoided any spoilers I started this game with an open mind and have loved every minute. Great storyline, graphics and gameplay
7684) This game is absolutely astounding. Those that are mad at the story, please cry all you want. Life doesn’t work the way you want it to. This games story is one of the most grounded and raw experiences I have seen. It’s an astounding achievement.
7685) Just finished the game, it's incredible. Don't let others ruin your experience.
7686) This game blew my mind. My husband is colorblind and cant hear for crap and the accessibility options are amazing. I am spectator to it and was so impressed with the darker storyline, the character development and the ability to traverse the environment. And the graphics, omg the graphics and animation are beautifully done.,After TLOU part 1 we were both so excited  for part 2 and it did not disappoint. The storyline is different, it challenges the player to see from multiple perspectives and the ability to play as different characters allows you to be submerged into each one's story. I wouldnt change a thing.
7687) Incredible story, it’s very different than the first but it holds up and is just as amazing. It’s all unfortunate people are review bombing this game and haven’t played it or haven’t played it in full.
7688) The last of us is one of the best games of all time already on the verge of perfection now the second is even closer to perfection, with an incredible story, with new engaging characters, and a fluid and dynamic gameplay being one of the most fun of the new  generation, another incredible point of the game are the actors who are amazing Ashley jhonson like ellie and troy beaker like Joel are fantastic.  Anyway, a more than worthy continuation for the first and certainly the best game of the generation.
7689) I think the game is great, there are some decistions that had to be made to create a true experience. I love the new game play, faster and really engaging. I love all the details that they creating making Seattle really beautiful, the game looks amazing, I love Ellie and when she plays the guitar is so great. Thank you for creathing a masterpiece.
7690) When I finished part one I was one of the people who said there should never be a sequel, it’s perfect as it is, or if there is a sequel it should focus on other survivors. I can remember where I was when I first saw the teaser trailer for this, I happy sobbed. All of that plus years of anticipation it would be totally understandable if it didn’t meet my expectations, but it met them and blew them out of the water. I can’t think of a game I’ve enjoyed more than this, and honestly I can’t think of any piece of media I’ve enjoyed as much. Perfect.
7691) Great game that improved on every aspect compared to its predecessor. Especially the graphics are amazing.
7692) I'm not fully finished the game yet and even though Joel died(he was my favorite character) I still love the game. The environment is great, I love the open world aspect and being able to enter random buildings, all the new game mechanics are great too, the story is also amazing. I'm not disapointed at all, all the people who are eating the game bad before even playing it or just eating it bad because Joel died shouldn't be playing video games. Characters die, it's not a reason to rate it bad
7693) Ignore all the negative reviews from people who haven't even played the game or have some sort of axe to grind. It's a masterpiece. Get it, you won't be dissapointed.
7694) Here’s the first and foremost. Joel’s dead, he paid for his actions by slaughtering not only many soldiers in the fireflies but their leader AND a surgeon and his team who are just trying to better the world. I understand he did it because he was helpless when it came to his daughter in TLOUs beginning. With that said, retribution was coming swift for Joel since that incident, it was just a matter of when. If people who enjoyed the first game understand one thing, happy endings aren’t always what happens. ND did a great job with characters in this game, development of mechanics and fleshing out of the world and exploration that grasped us in Uncharted 3-4 mostly. Ellie’s story, and Abbys takes us on a ride where we have no clue what’s going to happen, seriously, almost every character that mattered and was introduced died in brutal, quick fashion. This is not the life of the apocalypse or after every sense of normality is gone, but a tale of how revenge brings nothing but misery and pain to everyone around that person. Joel, Jesse, Mel, Owen and the rest of the Abbys friends all died because of the revenge they both sought. What impacted me was the cutscenes and when Joel had told Ellie, “you have to stop letting people get you so riled up.” And he was right. The ending is what struck me speechless, the fighting, Ellie’s missing fingers, and letting Abby leave after a quick flashback memory to Joel being in his element on the porch with coffee and his guitar. Ellie let go her rage at the end, and started taking his advice, in a way, forgiving him for what he did and hopes that she could be decent in some way. When Ellie returns home, it’s empty. This puts it and nails home the whole point of this game. Like it or not, it’s well written, composed beautifully from the character development, storytelling aspects, gameplay mechanics, graphically beautiful and most importantly a really good lesson hidden in plain sight, revenge is a fools game, and playing it hurts more then it helps. Play it for yourself, let everyone stay mad as small aspects of the game and the “plot holes” (which I found none), and form your own opinion.
7695) This game is absolutely amazing. If you are looking for a brilliant story with stunning visuals and pretty decent combat this is the game to play.
7696) This game is a master class in everything it sets out to achieve: story, character, visual fidelity, visceral gameplay, and more importantly the consistent reminder that the "soul" of a game can become much more than the sum of it's parts.
7697) It's just a perfectly made game! Graphics are good, gameplay is amazing!!!!
7698) "Everything is better than Part 1",Especially in story Part 1 was a bit cliché, but Part 2 was fresh.
7699) Xbox fan boys go rate your own games, if u want rate the game, buy a ps4 and play the game properly
7700) In my opinion, the game was almost perfect, after 50 hours I can say that The last of us part 2 its a goty
7701) This game is easily a masterpiece. Great story telling and character development. Love this game.
7702) Stunning game, excellent storytelling that builds upon the unforgiving apocalypse. Amazing gameplay. Another masterpiece by Naughty Dog
7703) What a banger! Plot instantly got me, getting revenge was priority for me after the first 2 hours. Graphics is insane, even on normal PS4. Love it!
7704) Absolutely incredible game that exceeded the hype and surpassed all of my expectations. Breathtaking gameplay and mechanics that feel eerily life-like. The character arcs were so complex and interwoven that I wonder how they were able to bring it all together so flawlessly. As a filmmaker, the gorgeous lighting and overall aesthetic really sealed the deal for me. True masterpiece.
7705) Nice game, say no to the review bombing. We can see again through the eyes on Ellie what is going on with this 2 part and I am completely hyped.
7706) Sorry for my English.,The Last Of Us Part II it's more than just a game. Naughty Dog, thank you for the sequel one of the most likely games in my life.,When I've finished part one I thought: oh, It's so confused. Joel made a too hard choice, but was it a good choice or not? Maybe the Fireflies could make a vaccine and save a lot of people. Yes, in this case, they are a must to kill  Ellie. Yes, we love this girl a lot. But it's just one life that can give hope to people be saved.,Unfortunately, we rarely think about the opposite side. We think: oh, they are bad guys. But are they? Not always.,Thank, Naughty Dog: you attempted to give people to see another side. And I think it was a great decision.,P.S. The LGBT line of the story mustn't be something unexpected for the followers of the game. It's a great game!
7707) This game and the story is amazing, do not listen to these rating bombers. This is a masterpiece, the combat, the gameplay, the story, and the graphics. People that complain about the graphics probably are playing on a old tube tv on and not on a PS4 pro. Even then it probably will still look good! People who rating bombed this should be ashamed, most of them don’t even own the game or own a PS4. It’s sad what a few streamers and autistic kids can do. The critics ratings aren’t paid for and if you look how they rate other games they are on par with how bad they are! https://kotaku.com/the-last-of-us-part-2-s-metacritic-page-shows-how-broke-1844106265,Read that article and it explains the rating bombers and everything! The game is great and a big F U to the trolls that rating bombed it. Also if you didn’t thing a main character would die in a zombie apocalyptic game with the series conclusion, you’re handicapped!
7708) The Last Of Us Part 2 was created to increase the deepness of this entire zombie world, adding some interesting points of view of what is like to become the villain of your own story.,The gameplay doesn't take any risk on making anything new, but it has the same mechanics and functionality of its predecessor. The only flaw that I was able to find were some minor bugs, witch could be easily fixed.,Something that separates this game from anyone of its genre, it's the way it shows dead on NPC's. It's suffering feels real and you won't be feeling comfortable killing others on this game.,It's story, the main focus of this game is amazing. Naughty Dog took a risky path by choosing a story that would make angry to any fan, but further than staying on a classic heroe theme, it goes further and deeper. Joel's dead at the very beginning of the game states the tone of the rest of the gameplay, and gives Ellie a strong reason to seek revenge, but after  some events on the main story Ellie finds out that love it's the most important thing, reflected on her finally forgiving Joel for not letting her die on the first game.,Although most fans didn't like the game on a first place, I'm sure that time will do justice on what was achieved on this game, and most players will some time be deeply in love with Ellie's and Abby's story. A must play for anyone that owns a PS4.
7709) I was waiting for the game and very satisfied you can complete the game and be satisfied. but play when you complete the first part
7710) Idk why people are hating
7711) The best game I ever played hands down, play the game for yourself I'll think you will enjoy it
7712) Did you guys even played the game???? Such simple minded people. Game was amazing.
7713) First off realise that PO'd fanboys are posting the same 0-3 reviews multiple times when it's clear that some of them haven't even played the game or don't know what actually happens. Also it's a game and even if you don't like the story the gameplay is amazing. TLOUP2 is an immensly dense game both in gameplay and story. The story is much more grand in scale comparitively to the first game which told a relatively simple story. This story examines the importance of those choices made in the first game and further examines the impact of a post apocalyptic world where murder and brutality is needed in order to survive. Here the story not only focuses on 2 individuals but looks at how these choices and circumstances effect everyone around our main characters. It's by far the most ambitious and satisfying game I've ever played. Now, some people obviously don't like the game and from what I've noticed is that people don't like it for one of two reasons: A. They feel the game Is pushing some sort of political agenda on them that they don't agree with. B. They're expectations of what the story should be do not match what the story actually is. Realize that this story does include LGBTQ characters, if you don't like that then this game probably isn't for you. I don't feel as though they were pushing an agenda these characters are there and they exist but there's not some grand message as far as they're orientations are concerned. They just are. Also Ellie liked girls in the first game so that shouldn't be a surprise re: Left Behind. Accept that what you want for the characters, and choices that you want to make are not what's going to happen because you are not them and they are not you. Drop all expectations of what the story will be and just let it happen and take in what it has to offer. These characters are not the same as the first game. 4 years have passed. They've changed, they've grown and they're going through something new. I loved this game. Is it the story I would've told? Probably not, but the story I would've told probably would've been boring and predictable. I appreciate that everytime I thought I knew what was going to happen next I was wrong. The characters made some choices I liked and they made some I didn't like but we're different people and we've been through different **** and we feel different things. Lastly it's just a game lol. Some people are acting as if their life is over.
7714) I'm not really sure why there are so many bad reviews for this game already. I'm about 20% done with the game so far and ,without spoiling anything, I've loved the game so far. The story is more fleshed out then it was in the first game. And thanks to all of the spoilers people posted in the reviews on this site without clicking the contains spoilers box, literally 5 minutes and 30 seconds after the game released, while i was still waiting to pick up my copy, I now know the ending. Even with this information i don't see how 0/10 reviews within minutes of the game releasing are justified before it is even possible to have played through the game.
7715) I CANNOT UNDERSTAND THE NEGATIVE RECEPTION OF THIS GAME.,,I am a bit over halfway through (I think) and The Last of US Part 2 is the best game I have ever played. I feel that nostalgic people were wanting to just replay a new improved version of the first game and don't like the shocking new direction Part 2 has taken the story. However, I applaud Naughty Dog for doing this. The story has been a massive surprise for me as I strictly avoided any leaks or spoilers before playing the game.,,I actually love how dark and bleak the world and the story line are. People really need to appreciate that the game is set is a post-apocalyptic world full of infected/fungus-zombies, which has continued to spiral into chaos since the infection began. Desperate human beings are committing horrendous acts in this desperate fight for survival. I played this game knowing full well that this is the context. I didn't play this game so it can make me feel all warm and fuzzy inside. I still support, empathize and care about Ellie and feel that given what has happened, everything she has done has been justified. I also feel that trying make the game overly positive or reducing the level of violence would just feel like a shame and would almost insult how horrific the world these characters are living in really is. The violence and the darkness make it all feel that much more real. Having said that, there are indeed many beautiful moments where life still has value, human decency can shine and the love the characters have for one another is clear.,,The story itself is very entertaining, dynamic, and unpredictable. I feel that Ellie is still the same old Ellie and the acting and character development is just as good as the first game.,,I am been so invested and on the edge of my seat since the first minute I started playing. I am just as attached to the characters in this game as I was while playing the Last of Us. I feel their pain and desperation. I feel so vulnerable while playing and every kill of both human and infected feels significant and like a real accomplishment contributing to my fight for survival.,,The game play is incredible, they have taken the Last of Us and pushed the PS4 to the limit. It is more challenging than the first game and the AI seem more lifelike and are more difficult. The fighting feels so real and intense and takes strategy and careful planning. I can't over emphasize the satisfaction that comes from setting up an explosive to have someone trigger it while you watch their limbs been blow off as they scream, or blasting off the leg of an infected person with a shotgun and watching them drag themselves around on their arms. Its full on and so much fun.,,The world is also incredibly beautiful, deep, and immersive. There are so many little hidden places and challenges throughout the game which you could easily overlook, and it just makes it feel that much more like your own special story. Combat scenes can take place over entire avenues, involving multiple buildings which you can be running in and out of. Combat can also involve the interaction of both human and infected AI which can end up killing one another while you remain hidden (if you help to instigate their combat). The graphics and attention to detail is incredible from start to finish. Wait until you smash open a vending machine or display cabinet while searching for supplies.,,From what I can see however, every person who hates this game has an issue with the story and not with the world, graphics, game play ect. I can’t give my complete opinion of the game until I finish it, but currently, this is the most I have ever enjoyed a video game and that is saying a lot. I think the critical praise of this game is spot on. I feel that most people are upset because they are so attached to the first game and its characters and just want an obvious continuation with the same vibe. Had the first game never existed, none of these people would be complaining. I also think that anyone who can't handle two girls kissing in this game needs to go and get F#*K*D.
7716) Just beat it. Not sure if it's a 10 or not yet I just felt obligated to score try and combat its baby-bomb score. A more mature and depressing game than its predecessor.  If you enjoyed the first one please do yourself a favor and don't listen to the review bombing (the game was doomed before it released) and play this game.  It will move you.
7717) If somehow the Lord gave me a second chance at that moment, I would do it all over again.
7718) Absolutely incredible game, all the hate is from either people that hate LGBT or people who cried the story didn’t go the way they wanted. The gameplay is just like the first and gave me a Metal Gear vibe with all of the stealth. Game will clock you about 35 hours to complete too, only issue is you think its going to end at points but keeps going, which really isn’t an issue. The cast and crew from ND nailed it again. The negative reviews show how much people can be swayed and become sheep to an opinion of an out if context spoiler when the game is just incredible. A lot of tear jerkers and anxiety driven moments will keep to hooked until the end.
7719) This game just perfect. History is a roller coaster of emotions, where there is no right side. Everyone is a hero in his own story.
7720) The Last of Us part 2 it is a masterpiece. People are hating because is to real. The game hit the player with the reality of death being personal. Hits with the reality that is nothing of glamorous in death at all and this is to real for people to handle. And the heavyset part is to admit that you favorite characters are selfish and the supposed "villain" are not that wrong. Is a hard game that was meant to be disturbing.
7721) We deserve a remake for the game Naughty dog should admit that they **** up in the story It’s like they were working on the graphics and gameplaye for 7 years and a week on the story ..,But i need to know .. how did they really think that the fans is going to like that? Ffs its joel,Naughty dog .. it’s an epic failure
7722) As a huge fan of the 1st game , beating it on every difficulty  level, the second installment has raised the bar on every facet.
7723) An incredible history with nice details, graphics and great gameplay. I'm ensure that you're going to cry and have too much fun with this game
7724) this is the best game i ever played you must play it everything is perfect about this game
7725) The game is complete, gameplay and history are awesome. Most of the people that make bad reviews didn´t even play it or are haters
7726) Don’t listen to people that rate this game bad because of politics. Very good storytelling and everything looks realistic. Honestly the only thing that I cared about is coming home from work and playing the game. 10/10
7727) Great sequel and very fun game. The gameplay is improved enough to still be great. Recommend for any true fans of the game series
7728) Amazing game, it is one of the best beautiful games of this generation..Amazing gameplay
7729) The more I think of this game, the more I love it, the characters act like real people and to understand the story you have to empathize with them in order to appreciate the message that Naughy Dog wanted to give to us. And yeah obviously graphics and gameplay are awesome but we know that.
7730) Don't listen to the review bombers. I finished this game about two hours ago, and have been sat deciding whether or not I liked it. I've decided that I do. I don't feel I need to mention graphics acting sound etc we all know naughty dog are the kings at all that. I'm just gonna dive into how good the game is. The last of us part two had me hating moments of play (only due to the story beats) and I found myself watching and doing things I didn't want to do! The key thing here is that by the end everything wraps up in such a beautiful way and as it sat with me, the more and more I loved it. I loved it so much in fact, I am just about to begin replaying again, just to see everything that happened with literally tonnes of added meaning.,None of the characters from the first game, especially Joel and Ellie, are diminished in any way, only improved. None of them are done a disservice either, some of you may know what I mean but I don't wanna go into spoilers. The end redeems everything!,In terms of gameplay I think it's tense, thrilling and engaging. It kept me going through the slower story beats and is a massive improvement on the original. I've seen people saying otherwise and I don't really get why.,I just want people to play this game and not dismiss it just cos of what others are saying about it. It's a fantastic story that hasn't been told in any form of media before (to my knowledge) and people shouldn't be put off by things they've heard! Give it a go
7731) The only thing that i can say about this game, is the best game that i play in my hole life
7732) obviously an incredible work of art.,you can say much about the game without giving anything away, but you'll just have to see for yourself what makss this game so amazing. every detail is so finely crafted and so perfectly tuned.,A true master piece of a game.
7733) Amazing! Couldn't put it down! Graphics are best to date for ps4. No glitches, framerate issues, or freezing. A polished masterpiece!
7734) People's stupidity been surprisingly increasing recently just because of this game. Some of them played the game on YouTube, some are disgusting homophobics, the others are close-minded kiddos who loves every Disney's movie though they have the same ending for years: "And they lived happily ever after". But for me, it's 10 out of 10. No more doubt.
7735) Thank you ND for making a great game! It was an emotional roller-coaster and it made me think about how people are. For a typical revenge story, you made it feel fresh and you took your time to connect the first game into this one. Was everything perfect? No, but the experience was. I never played a game that played with my emotions that much. Well done! And like the first one, I will remember it for a long time!
7736) One of the best games that I played. Graphics are amazing. Story is heartbreaking.
7737) STOP THE HATE !!,Please people, stop giving this game such a low rating, I bet more than half of the reviews on here are from people that haven't even played the game or are just trolling because that is what the internet does. This game is amazing, the level design ,the emotion of the characters, the graphics are the best I have ever seen it's insane the level of detail that went into creating this masterpiece.enjoy the game for what it is , a game! Most give it 0 rating .. like really ?? Just because you didn't like some of the directions the story took stop being so sensitive!! You have to appreciate the dedication it took and years of research to create this video game , crazy how most people don't see the whole picture for what it is ,they just nit pick something they don't like and bam , everything else is trash . We live in a generation where most don't get satisfied by anything, nor get impressed, so quick to judge and they just  move on , sickening . For those of you that really aren't hating and playing the game for what it is thank you .
7738) Very good game i really enjoy it.. everyone who like the ist game should try it
7739) Expectations subverted! This game makes you sick with character decisions ):
7740) Nice game, nice story, good graphics, well-chosen music. For me one of the best games I have played
7741) Simply incredible, visceral, unpausable, and engrossing from start to finish.
7742) I truthfully believe this game is getting way too much hate. I mean people are giving this game 0s and 1s?! Cmon now. This game is arguably one of the best survival games I’ve ever played. Yes I will admit naughty dog did have a very controversial story that upset a lot of fans but I don’t think this should distract people from the several positives of the game. For example naughty dog implements a open world aspect of the game which works absolutely flawlessly. Exploration will lead you to finding various upgrades , weapons, collectibles, and cutscenes that give you some more background regarding the story. The gun mechanics also work really well as well. While the story could’ve been better, people should also make sure to recognize the hard work and several advancements that naughty dog made in regard to this game.
7743) I've played through the game twice,because I wanted to make sure it wasnt just a fluke,that the first time playthrough was a mesmerising,truly outstanding,bordering on cinematic masterpiece experience!!! But sadly for all the haters,it was even better a 2nd time around,and Quite honestly I struggle to explain how brilliant the last of us part 2 is,from start to finish,hour after hour of relentless brutality,all bundled up in a ball of emotion,revenge,regret,redemption,fear,horror,love,cruelty,etc...just carnage! With a roller coaster of feelings whilst playing  it,I found I was completely immersed Into the story because of the writing,obviously,well also because all the characters are so brilliantly made, in every way,and naughty dog gave them a fantastic story too,I love the different perspectives we play from,the flashbacks and the action set pieces,all coming together beautifully,and all set in a world so graciously put together,either graphically,or through the story,or just the lore of the universe the game is set in,it all makes sense.,Truly the best looking game ever,graphically its second to no game,frim character rendering,gunfights,animation to the little touches, like backpacks swaying realistically,footprints in the snow,water effects,animals in the surrounding areas,and lumps of blown up flesh sliding down walls,and so so so many more all bring it to life...its such a beautiful and well crafted world,I'm so impressed and I cant understand the hate this game is getting,especiallywhen you see weak story based games not getting as much hate,really sad to see!! Perhaps those haters should go play minecraft or Fortnite,better yet,call of duty!!! Leave the adult games for the actual adults,who have been waiting for a game,of this fame and caliber anyway,that utilises,maturity,violence,epic stories and emotion, among lots of other reasons,all of their god damn lives! I cant reccomend this game any more than I already have done! Dont read,or watch the reviews from the haters,just play it,and fall into the game world,if you love mature,gritty stories,then look no further!,Best game I ever played,and I must say the elder scrolls and fallout games,and the star wars knights of the old republic games,were are my favourites,,so I'm not a part time gamer,and I know when I play a good game or not.,The last of us part 2,ticks all the right boxes,it continues an already masterpeice of gaming in last of us,the original game,...and dare i say it,betters the original! But then it's just my opinion i guess....please play it,before being a critical,band wagon jumping prick!!
7744) Triggered much.... pathetic to see the review bombing for a game of such high quality. First all of the xbox fanboys just man up and shut up..go buy a ps4. This is far from the only title your missing out on. Second, those upset over Ellie being a lesbian its clear you are lonely and miserable exhibiting rage over a fictional characters sexual preference...its sad, pathetic really. Keep in mind it is you who are the snowflakes. I'd like to thank Naughty Dog for a game which they clearly put their all into it. I'm only 9 hours in but felt compelled to put a review in due to the nonsense here on metacritic which is a display of ignorance. The graphics, story, dialogue, music and gameplay are exceptional and improve on what was excellence in the first game. The characters communicate throughout giving a better sense of who they are and where they've come from. Anybody who played the first and enjoyed it surely will love this game...of course that's said if your manhood isn't affected by the lesbian presence which is not at all shoved down the players throat as I've read in some of these small people's reviews. A narrow mind is laughable and also explains why many on here are lonely and probably miserable. I'm stunned in 2020 that you all made this "political", but I'm not surprised. Anyway... this game is phenomenal and to buy into a snowflake narrative would be your loss if these opinions do in fact dissuade you from purchasing this game. Character development is top notch..and humanity is on display moreso than part 1. The story can be ugly, but aren't we. It is what people are and if you can't handle the brutality and emotion its not a title for you. The environments are steps above the original and the music sets the tone. Reactions in characters us the best gaming has to offer...as is the dialogue which is to say well written. Only 9 hours in and yeah, this is your game of the year. Thanks again Naughty Dog fir attention to detail in the form of broken glass crunching under Ellie's feet and setting the atmosphere with the proper gloom. I'm 100% satisfied. And Metacritic please get this problem fixed...these user scores are a joke.
7745) Tldr: Amazing game! Big contender for game of the year for me.,10/10,I don't understand all the hate, I truly don't. To play through this masterpiece and not like it? This game is an emotional rollercoaster from start to finish. It really made me feel what it would be like to be in the apocalypse and I felt like I was a part of the world. They build on the last of us formula so well and make the game better in every way. Ellie is a great protagonist, the supporting characters are great. The UI is great, the action is fun. The puzzles are great. The cutscenes are amazing. It's a shame we live in a world where people leak information without context and others are review bombing the game for what seems to be no apparent reason. I am so glad I bought it and would do so again. I am definitely planning on a new game plus run through.
7746) This game is really good. Naughty dog created a breathtaking game. Best story telling in a game ever.
7747) Love it❤️ not a crowd pleaser! I it's a apocalypse game not a Disney movie!
7748) This game deserves to be fully played before making assumptions off the leaks I also didn’t think I was going to enjoy the games but I had already pre ordered it so I played it when I played as Abby I almost stopped playing I was so mad at naughty dog Bc they forced me to play as Abby but as I played as I saw what her back story was and how she was affiliated with Joel it’s makes you question who is the good guy and who is the bad guy and the answer is no one is it’s a story about humans who seek revenge but find regret and loss and deserves to be played for the amazing gameplay and story that could’ve been told differently chronologically then being split in two different stories that jumble up but it’s still a great story with beautiful scenery and with a story that will have you remember it for a long time
7749) The fuking best game on ALL the fuking earth, i cried and get angry, i can't Tell How this game os good, who botes 3 or 4 are wrong
7750) One of the most engaging stories I’ve ever played always keeps you on edge. #GameOfTheYear
7751) One of the best games this year. The last of us, part II, is the most beautiful game I've ever played. The details in the environment are crazy. I genuinely enjoy the story and the gameplay, which is exactly what it should be
7752) I am currently on my third play through of The Last of Us Part 2. A truly unforgettable and enthralling experience from start to finish. Intense gameplay, beautiful graphics, and an incredible story. The game is emotionally devastating however. Those without empathy and those looking for a happy adventure story may want to stay away. 10/10 easily my favorite game of all time.
7753) Amazing game. It's a shame some people try to ruined and say bad things even without playing. Really awesome game, the story and how it tells it.
7754) The graphics, animation, audio, game play, level design, and characters are top notch. This game is a masterpiece and is on par or even above the first. I think the story is really fleshed out with characters you care about and understand. This story is about revenge and it’s consequences. The cycle of revenge is often showed in cut scenes in other games, but The Last of Us Part 2 allows you to experience the entire cycle. From beginning to end.,,The game play is often disliked in the community, but as some one who liked the the mechanics, stealth, and action of the first installment, this game improves upon these elements immensely. The AI, addition of dogs, and certain crafting elements are tremendous.,,I would encourage anyone to get this game and experience it.
7755) Look through the comments on any The Last of Us 2 related article or video and count the number of times you read about a “LGBT/feminist agenda”. This, combined with the fact that most of them haven’t even played the game, should tell you everything you need to know about the naysayers and their credibility. Rest assured that TLOU2 is an absolute gem, not only in terms of gameplay and presentation but also story, world-building and character writing. Don’t listen to the review bombers. Do yourself a favour and pick up a copy.
7756) Execellent. From Animation to Design to Gameplay. All things in parallel with a great story !
7757) Excelent. Game of The Year, for shure.
7758) this is an incredible game, naugthy dog i like the evolution of ellie in all the hole adventure.
7759) Masterpiece with a great story, great graphics, great characters and a lot of other things that enrich the gameplay and not to forget that it is a great sequel to one of the beast games
7760) Great game. One of the best for PS4. The plot is very cool. Gameplay, graphics, atmosphere ... - 10/10
7761) For me it's the Best game of this generation. Better than first the last of us and better than every exclusive game on PS4.
7762) Loved how the sequel portrayed the cycle of violence and what it does to our characters , loved it from start to finish , probably better than the original
7763) beatiful, amazing.,10/10,,it is very good, each piece of the game is perfectly placed to be an incredible experience.
7764) I find it hard to believe that a game this perfect, both on a technical and on an emotional level, will ever be made again. This is the experience of a lifetime. I will never forget this.
7765) I don't understand players that hate this game. TLOU II is simply amazing. Story is awsome. ND delivered memorable experience. M.A.S.T.E.R.P.I.E.C.E
7766) I loved the game. It's definitely worth the buy. Naughty Dog had a near impossible task making this game as great as it's predecessor. And I believe they did a great job
7767) I loved every minute of it so many emotions!I started already my new game +
7768) The Last of Us Part II - Best game on PS4! Thanks Naughty Dog! Thank you Neil Druckmann!
7769) Love  that  druckman  doesnt  bend  the  knee  like  blizzrd or  other  companies  about  the quarterly.  Game  has  a  lot  of  soul  humility humanity...love. I think  it’s a  bit  harder  for  ppl  who  havnt seen  enough  hardship  to  take  in. sympathize with  that,  yet  its it’s nice  to  see  fruitcakes squirm  a  little.  For  all  the  gay  pride  this game  touts  it’s as gutsy  and gangster  as  a  Game  has  been  made  beyond gta.  Tlou2 defies  stereotypes  And  is  actually  a needed  reminder  that we  can enjoy  on  our  couch  for the consequeces  Of  the  roads  we can take. i think something would  be  lost  if  everyone enjoyed  the  game like  WOW  tried to  do
7770) The overall quality is astounding. The gameplay and scenarios are extremely tense, and the story has enough twists and turns to keep you invested and playing for hours. This is a once in a generation experience that will be remembered for years to come.
7771) This game is absolutely amazing.  Not just the game of the year, but of all time. Just Perfect.
7772) Very good game it’s masterpiece the story comes well together and makes sense I can’t wait for the third one
7773) Ignore the idiots review bombing this game. It’s fantastic, if you enjoyed the first game then you will have the time of your life. Everything you enjoyed before has been improved, and guess what...proper fans knew Ellie was gay anyway, and guess what, proper human beings don’t care anyway!
7774) The best opinion about the game will be yours. Don’t pay too much attention to users reviews. Cause a lot of them destroyed the game before play it , in consequence of LGBT content ( thats thing change absolutly nothing to the storie, if it was a straight love strory it will be totally the same. To speak about the game , emotion are really present ! Smile and tension never stop to appair allong the journey of Ellie. A really good experience that conclude the first part of à PlayStation Hit.
7775) The game is awesome, definitely a perfect continue ever with good story and well-developed characters
7776) The Last Of Us2 is Masterpice in gameplay and story and that game is crown of ps4.,Naughty Dog is Best studio for games.,I wish them all the Best in future. I hope there will be the last of us 3.
7777) The game makes some upsetting choices but in doing so not only tells a compelling story but stays true to the world and characters without giving in to fanservice. The gameplay, graphics, audio design, AI, score, acting, writing, and everything else are setting a new bar for games. Bravo, Naughty Dog!
7778) Like most when I heard about the leaks I was disappointed, but I decided to keep a open mind and purchase the game.Controls take time to get used to, and the pacing is a bit slow at times but the game is well worth playing.,In my playthrough a question popped in my head-WHAT IS THE PRICE OF VENGEANCE, AND ARE YOU WILLING TO PAY.I’ll start with Abby’s vengeance. In her pursuit of Joel she is faced many times with Owen attempting to build a relationship with Abby, each time Abby turns it down and continues with her “Leads” even though it is clear they still like each other. Eventually this leads to Owen dating Mel and getting her pregnant. Later in a cutscene, Abby and Owen have sex(keep in mind Owen is still with Mel) it was a long time coming. After the affair Owen wants Abby to travel with Mel and him, Owen says he’ll try to make it work, in his love triangle. Mel later reveals to Abby that, she never liked her(probably saw and Abby and Owen close still) Later Abby aids in finding Lev, Owen tried to join Abby, Mel strongly disagrees. Abby knows at this point, that the time for her and Owen has passed. She tells Owen to stay and get his priorities in line, ending any further involvement.,Abby lost her chance to grow a relationship with the only other person that she cared for. As well as losing her friends. And she also has a change of heart and befriends two seraphites, which leads her to kill her comrades(WLF),,Ellie’s vengeance leads to her being mentally and visibly shaken by her actions after getting Nora to “talk”. Later she shoots Owen and stabs Mel in the neck, in Owens last moments he informs Ellie that Mel was pregnant. This disturbs Ellie leading to her getting on her knees, breathe heavily, and wrap her arms around her stomach(throw up?pain?) she is snapped out of it by Tommy and is taken back to base, only problem is Ellie left her map, leading Abby to find her. We cut to the future(after Abby beats Ellie and Dina), Ellie is on a farm with Dina and, Dina’s child JJ, just like Dina wanted. Ellie walks around the house with JJ and has a good time, eventually she has to herd the sheep into the barn. While herding you hear winds picking up. Ellie locks the small door that holds sheep, only to find a lamb out. She approaches the lamb resulting in the lamb knocking over a shovel, which triggers Ellie.a flash of Joel’s dying face appears and attempts to get the lamb only for the door to close. You play in a small room with stairs that lead down, she hears Joel calling Ellie for help, Ellie reaches the door but it is locked, she can’t open it and starts yelling. It cuts to reality and Ellie is screaming and the baby is crying(Ellie had JJ in a sling) Dina tried to comfort Ellie. Tommy shows up(you find out he lived) with only one eye and his leg doesn’t work like before(from Abby and Lev) he reveals him and Maria are taking time apart. He came to inform Ellie that a informant saw a muscular woman traveling with a boy with scars in his face. He tried to get Ellie on board. Dina tells Tommy, that they are done with that, Ellie tells Tommy she is sorry. Tommy packs his bag, and tells Ellie,”you said you’d make her pay” angry he leaves and Dina has “parting words” with him. Ellie eventually decides she has to finish it, Dina tries to stop Ellie from leaving, telling her she has a family and that she won’t go through it again. Ellie leaves. Skipping ahead Ellie finds Abby and they fight(real gritty) Elle gains the upper hand, and starts to drown Abby while chilling music plays, the camera pans to Ellie’s face. Bloody and in tears she has a memory of Joel, and decides to let Abby live. She definitely had a revelation, but it’s open to interpretation.,,Ellie returns to the farm to find Dina has left and the house is empty and cold, in contrast to before, it was colorful and warm. She goes up stairs to play guitar, she plays the song Joel sang to her,”if I ever were to lose you, I’d surely lose my self” this hit me, she lost Joel, and lost her self figuratively and literally as she lost her left ring and pinky fingers, leaving her unable to play the guitar properly. Alone and changed, she has a look on her face I can’t describe(see model viewer “Ellie-epilogue”),,Ellie’s price was her mental state as seen after her encounter with Nora, Owen and Mel, Jessie dying, Tommy losing a eye and ability to walk properly, as well as him and his wife taking a “break”, Ellie’s ability to play guitar, last but not least- Dina leaving.,,It is a different game with a tragic ending, one that is welcome in a market of happily ever afters and fears of telling a story like it due to backlash(like right now),,I came in with a bit of disappointment but kept a open mind, and left with a amazing experience.Is the price of vengeance worth it? Are you willing to pay? For it not only impacts you, but also others.,,“Vengeance is a idiots game”-Arthur Morgan
7779) I have been a fan since the beginning and unlike a lot of other fans of it I enjoy the sequel. The story makes sense to me because I have read a lot of novels, and I understand the directions they took and why they took them. A lot of people were expecting something generally specific to happen, if that makes sense, and it didn't.  So they didn't like it. But I went into it expecting nothing, and was surprised at every turn.
7780) Love this game so far, 10 hours in. Grim and sinister. Darker than the original. Also, well written and directed. Great acting. Pretty sophisticated story telling for a AAA game... I wish more big budget games had this kind of adult focus and narrative ambition.
7781) I do not say this lightly. This may be the best game I’ve ever played. While yes, it is bleak and violent... the plot and character development are excellent. It’s beautiful. It’s an emotional roller coaster. 10/10.
7782) This game is just simply yet another masterpiece of Naughty Dog. It beats you and kicks you down to the ground with the horrific event that happens at the start. But as you progress throughout the game you then understand why it happened. It both puts you in the shoes of the protagonist and the antagonist to understand both sides of the story. If you have played the first game then this game would definitely be very, very divisive than it already is because of the weight it adds to the first game. If you would want to get yourself emotionally broken inside then this would be the right game for you. The fact that this game is so hated on by people who haven’t even played the game and are review bombing this game is just upsetting but I’m telling you, this game is a masterpiece worth experiencing.
7783) This is pure art. I don’t necessarily need to be happy with the events that happen in a game, movie or series. I was incredibly moved by the story, and have never been more invested in a game. And because of how much i care about this game, I will try to justify the two big events of the story that alot of people have a problem with. This is a story about hate and loss, and I think the choices Naughty Dog took with Joel’s death and letting Abby go, was necessary for the story. The death of Joel put Ellie on a revenge mission, and will kill anything that gets in her way. I think that is completely understandable, and shows her incredible loss. She goes on a journey of hate, and only cares about getting to Abby, and therefore not showing any emotion other than hate towards her fellow Wolves. Abby lets Ellie live when they met at the theatre, and therefore shows that she is willing to let go of her hate in order to stop the killing. Also getting to play as Abby, seeing her humanity, and symathizing with her, is a fantastic part of the game. After that, Ellie and Dina lives quite happily on the farm with JJ, but Ellie still has severe problems with Joel’s death, and has a firm belief that killing Abby will make it stop. Dina knows the loss of what a journey of blind hate can make you lose, woth Jesse getting killed. She understands that it is not worth it, and has perspective on what is important. Ellie has not yet realized that fully. She finds Abby on the pole, and is kind of paralyzed when seeing her so weak. When getting memories of Joel, she is enraged and wants to fight, and has the opportunity to kill Abby. When getting another image of Joel, she stops. I think this is because she realizes how much she has lost, with Joel, Jesse, Dina and JJ because of this pure hate. There is simply no point anymore, she figures out that it wont resolve anything. It will only create more suffering. It is sad that alot of people had to die by her hand before she realized, but i dont think it makes the story or the game bad. My perception is that Ellie was clouded by hate for very long, and with time and distance, she subconsiously left that hate behind her, and when she finally had the chance, her hate was gone. I don’t feel good or fulfilled by the ending, but it makes sense. This game moved me and made me think, that is what i think great art is about.
7784) Obviously a good game, not even close to the last of us 1, but, which game is?
7785) Its one of the best games ive actually played. The graphics, the quality of the animations,  the AI, everything is top notch.  This game has been reviewbombed because some people claim is "too woke" which it really isnt, or because they think the story had to follow the plot they wanted.  The story is actually thrilling, a quest for revenge like the best of them.  It kept me coming back for more. Im a 100% sure that given the chance,  this game will most likely hook you up.
7786) Very good gameplay. Best graphics i've seen in a game. I liked the first game. En loved the second one. 10/10.
7787) These reviews are garbage! I played the first game months ago and I played this game the weekend it came out. The graphics are amazing, characters are amazing, realism is amazing, story is amazing. it’s definitely not a game for close minded people.
7788) All of these idiots just review bombing. This game plays like no other game before it. I found it up there with the best cinema has to offer.
7789) The game is amazing and follows the story of the first one perfectly, it is all I could ask for as a fan. All the comments saying the game is bad are made by homophobic, misogynistic idiots who cannot appreciate a story that is not told by his white, male perspective.
7790) Seriously living up to my expectations took about 34 hours to playthrough. I liked the story a lot. Ellie is a badass. Idk why people are giving bad reviews. Absolutely awesome graphics. The combat is brutal. Great job Naughtydog!!! I found myself becoming emotionally invested in the characters as the story develops which i feel plays a huge role in how well the game plays and tells the story. Awesome game i loved it.
7791) Very good game I highly recommend the only thing I didn't like about the game was the death of Joel but it complements a lot of the story and I recommend playing the first one
7792) The Last of Us part 2 is an amazing game, the combat and the way the weapons feel are superb. Ever bullet or arrow that you receive and dish out has weight. The design and sounds of the infected/zombie like enemies will make your skin crawl. The human enemies are interesting because they all have names. Sometimes it was frustrating when you stealth kill an enemy with a silent range weapon (bow or silent gun) and the AI can instantly deduce which direction you are with with out checking the body. However that's the only negative thing about the combat in my opinion. My only other nitpick is that their was only  one part where you could freely roam a large map. I originally expected several sections like this but another one never came. Obviously the story and acting is amazing. The ending was heavy. This game is a clear 10/10. Not sure why people are review bombing it, this game is clearly brilliant. 10/10.
7793) This Game is by far one of the best games in the last 10 years. The characters are so good and lovely.
7794) i loved.,Amazing combat, sound and environment, all very beautiful, together with one good story.,And has also done groundbreaking work on accessibility options and tools.
7795) This is Amazing experience and no it's not a game u want to play to relax or have fun with.,But if u just wanted to play more of Ellie and Joel go play the last of us remastered.,It is it's own game and is one of the best interactive media of the generation
7796) **** the haters, actually play the game you dicks. I don't think metacritic will put this on their site, but whatever. Crazy ass game.
7797) It a fun game continues character development from the 1st and the new characters are good
7798) People who hate story probably don't fully understand where the aim of the experience is. Great game.
7799) The last of us 2 is a masterpiece. This is not a project. This artwork. Gameplay, physics, atmosphere, graphics, story. All this was done at the highest level!
7800) I personally loved it, but I understand why a lot of people would not enjoy it
7801) SPOILERS!!!,Throughout the course of this game you will feel different things that may be uncomfortable but stick with it, the new characters are wonderful additions and if you're invested in this universe you will feel a whole string of emotions towards various characters and as you understand the prespectives of both ellie and abby you begin to understand that they aren't all that different in some ways. As you begin to see why abby did what she did you slowly begin to sympathize with her and grow with her as the game progresses while also getting to know the people ellie hurts the game puts you in control of abby for the first fight between abby and ellie, this for me wasnt enjoyable but it was necessary for the storys progression, its necessary for you to understand that even though you want to side with ellie after what abby did you've grown to care about the people abby wants to avenge after ellie kills them and its painful to see abby grieve the way ellie does over joel. This is the point in the game were you realize that there is no good guys or bad guys, just survivors in a broken world and to get the full emotional pull of the second act you HAVE to understand this. Yet while I did grow to like abby I do believe that some of the best moments in the game are the flashbacks that host both a younger ellie and a kinder joel, they absolutely steal the show and while i morn the lose of joel gravely so and found it difficult at first to see things from abbys view i did enjoy story. Also abbys play time is just as long as ellies  though I personally(as well as most people i would assume) think ellie steals the show. You feel the characters emotions just by seeing their expressions and listening to the music which is furthered even more by dialouge and actions of said characters. At first you will absolutely hate abby as the developers surely intend you to but once ellies three day period is over and you play those same three days over as abby she may very well start to grow on you. The gameplay is smooth and combat and stealth are so much more tense then ever before as the enemy AI will find ways to outsmart you or outgun you and that only increases as the difficulty increases. The graphics speak for themselves as remarkable breathtaking feats and while the story may not be for everyone I fully enjoyed my time with this game and am already making headway in a second playthrough. By the end the game makes you understand that ellie wasn't after abby purely for revenge as the final flahback reveals that ellie and joel were beginning the roads to forgiveness after ellie had found out about joels lie in an earlier cutscene but just a short time after they have this discussion he is taken from her by abby and ellie feels that abby stole her chance to forgive and heal what was broken, while also realizing what this quest for revenge has turned her into and upon realizing this ellie lets abby go instead of drowning her. this story requires you to take the story as it is instead of what you want it to be and doing so grounds the universe even further as each character is more than true to who they were and who they've become since the time we last seen them. This game does not have a happy ending as ellie loses 2 fingers in her final fight with ellie she can no longer play the guitar, realising that her quest for revenge has also taken the last thing left she had from joel(being his lessons on how to play the guitar) as well as losing her relationship with dina in favor of tracking abby down. You the player feel this overwhelming pain as the screen pans out after she's set down the guitar and left the house and all that's left is to watch her walk away with this feeling of understanding that she's lost pretty much everything because of the choices that were made. These emotions may not be what you're looking for in a game and thats okay but to those who do decide to play it the story is great even in all lose and sadness.,If youre still skeptical I encourage you to look at reviews on both sides, get good and bad opinions and see if this is for you and maybe watch a playthrough if that doesn't prove enough, but please only listen to those who sound like they've actually played the game and be aware that there's definitely people here review bombing a product they haven't played. You may not be one who enjoys this work of art and thats ok but make the decision for yourself, don't let others tell you how to feel. To all incoming players be prepared for an emotionally challenging story that will push you to the edge and back. As I believe this story is closely on par with the emotional holdings of the first in almost every way.
7802) Its an amazing game made by naughty dog. Story is very good and emotinal. Gameplay and mechanics are incredible. Last of us 2 is running on ps4 slim without lag. **** those haters go and buy this masterpiece
7803) Great gameplay, beautiful graphics and a really good story make this game awesome.
7804) If you played for a few hours and watched the rest on YouTube, you do not understand the game, and it can't be otherwise. I was initially mad at the story and felt quite a bit of hate, but after playing myself for the solid 10 hours, I was surprised at how good it actually is. Do not listen to all those blind hate reviews, the game is astounding. It does not deserve the user rating that it is getting.
7805) This game it's not to be compared to the first installment. This one is it's own beast of a game. Naughty Dog have accomplished another excellent installment to add to their library of already awesome games.
7806) This Game shows us that Lesbians Can fight!!!! Nothing more... :/,What in the world must i say after 7 years???
7807) Play it before hating this masterpiece. It's an emotional adventure, which let's us gamers think about what's is right and wrong. Only because you don't like the story it isn't a bad story :)
7808) Haha the people giving this game a 1...,Stick to animal crossing you babies
7809) Perfect sequel, leaving a slightly more opened ending for a third chapter. Very interesting how it explored the storylines of ones we first called villians, to change our perception of them and understand them just as we did Ellie and Joel. Brilliant visuals and gameplay.
7810) Good plot, great graphics, the visual até amazing i like so much the characters
7811) The game, inspite of all the hate that a lot o people are giving it, is a masterpiece.. with a new thematic and story, showing us that desicions have concequences. is a real life history, not just fairytales. Love it.
7812) This game is amazing. I really don't know why people get so mad, just because Joel dies? Honestly, I already knew in the first part, that one of the two dies. Of course it happened brutally and very quickly in the game, but Joel's story is told. Every story is told at some point. This is called "storytelling". I'm not interested in this feminism stuff. I've been playing games since I was 7 and I play because I like playing games and not because I'm a big fan of the show or anything. I think this game is great, nice graphics, nice sound, the story is perfectly fine too. What happens here with the ratings is no opinion but simply hate and has nothing to do with the game. I hope for all these kids who let out their hate, this game will be game of the year. In my opinion, it deserves this. Nevertheless. Stay healthy
7813) Don't believe the crowd who have hijacked this for unrealistic and petty reasons. The game takes all that is good from the original game, my favourite game ever, and improves on all of it. The gameplay was really good and not clunky like the first game which was great fun despite the technology limitations. The music, backgrounds and story are all so good and better than almost everything you can compare it to. Naughty Dog killed it again. It is an absolute must buy and IMO is the best PS4 game of this generation.
7814) Its a good game,good graphic,good cinematic but medium history because its like a forced
7815) The game's not as bad as other ppl sayin'. I rly think ppl are over reacting at Joel's death , sure his death was bad and stupid but the game's just trying to feel like real life with not all ppl dying in dramatic ways , the game isn't as good as TLOU but it's def worth a try.
7816) TLOU2 is still a solid game. Having played through it in it's entirety, I can say that more or less with confidence. However, the story feels off. Forced upon us. Characters make uncharacter-like decisions for the sole purpose of furthering the disjointed narrative being written for us. Of course, the demises of certain main ensemble characters is upsetting, but if a game portrays them in a way that's both meaningful and true to the character, so be it. The deaths in this game felt so utterly heavy-handedly forced down my throat I shut it off and left for a bit.,,It is extremely obvious to fans of the first game that the writing has veered off into something else entirely this go-round. It's upsetting to see actual user reviews being ignored, and only have the large gaming journalists reviews be considered "valid" Meanwhile, when average gamers like myself try to explain our vastly different experiences with the game, we're considered "bots" or "review-bombs" or we're upset because of the sexual orientations of characters withing the game. This is insulting.,,TLOU2 is a solid game. However, it doesn't advance the story, the graphics, or the gameplay enough after as long as it spent in the oven. The game devs should be proud of the work they put in.,,The writers should be ashamed.
7817) PHENOMENAL game! That's all I need to say! I've been shocked, sad and happy, theses are the things that make a game special. The amount of attention to detail in the world to facial expressions is amazing! You can tell Naught Dog put everything they got into this game and it shows. If you own a PS4 you must play this game!
7818) I hate these review bombs more than anything, this game is absolutely beautiful! I literally just finished it, I’m crying but I’m so moved and still taking it all in. This is something that no game has ever done. If you are just bandwagoning on hate, please  play this game start to finish with an open mind. I was someone who saw the leaks and was going in thinking I’d hate it but came out loving it. This game has scenes that can cause a lot of anxiety and some scenes made me so angry I thought of stopping and chucking the game out the window but that’s part of the reason I **** love it, especially looking back on it now. The people review bombing have not played the game all the way through, there is no way this game is a zero no matter what people may think.
7819) It's beautiful, it's sad, it's nostalgic and it's everything I was waiting for! Some might not appreciate the direction in which it went, I mean I'm not afraid to admit I cried! But that's what happens with good story telling and in-depth character development. You become attached, you love them and hate them! It's the whole point of the journey! Don't hate on it just because Ellie's gay, or it wasn't what you wanted. If it was poor game play, crappy graphics or a **** story then yeah, give it a bad rating. But this game doesn't do any of that! There's so much stuff available to do in this game! New equipment, new moves and a seamless fighting system! I truly hope people will see what a gem this game is! Thank you Naughty Dog ❤️
7820) Naughty dog and Sony playstation continue to raise the bar graphically, mechanically, and with the story telling.. all who are involved with this game deserve all the praise and respect for setting such a high standard and helping the video game media grow and evolve beyond anything we've seen till now.. Thank you all @Naughty_Dog and @Playstation for continuing to make the best quality games i could ever imagine and continuing to make me laugh and cry more than any other form of entertainment has in the last 10 yrs...
7821) Despite what the trolls said, this game is truly an amazing game. The graphic, the mechanics, sound, voice acting are all incredible. The story may not be what people expected, but that's the beauty of it. I love every single second of this game!
7822) love this game,best in PS4 generation, it's a handmade game, millions of small details made with love.,story are awesome.
7823) Masterpiece! It’s Naughty Dog is there much more to say? Buy it and play it for yourself.
7824) Best game ever !,It's a masterpiece bottom LINE.,I know there is a Lot of haters on this onde, but the game is awsome
7825) I don’t get the hate the game is getting. I’m assuming it’s from the opening and Abby but I don’t have any problem with her and I usually don’t enjoy having sjw stuff thrown into games. The gameplay is amazing and I for one love the story.
7826) The game have a strong and extremely intense history! Ellie is a great and powerful female protagonist, she may be one of the greatest female (if not the best) characters ever made in all types of media (and one of the greatest characters made of all).... The way the story builds up and gets more and more intense gradually is bizarre and I love every minute of it! Abby, even though I hate her for what she did, is a great character as well, I love how they designed her and the gameplay using her is completely different because of her body structure and strength!,I love with all my heart all musics that plays throughout the whole game, they used musics  of three of my favorite musicians: pearl jam, tash sultana and Shawn james..... I can't even begin to explain how the tracks played throughout the game makes me feel,Well.... The game is incredible and I think everybody that haves a chance to play it should at least give it a try!
7827) This game is insane.,Story ,gameplay , graphics,sound, voice acting,tension , jump scares ,exploration, level design, crafting ,loot , skills , very smart AI never seen such one in any game , tons of options..did i forgot something? This game is a paradise for any gamer it has it all and done masterfully.,MASTERPIECE.
7828) People are punk ass losers that want to be apart of something and will give it a bad rating because people want to hate on something.
7829) Loved the game so much. This is in no way worth the low reviews from people who haven't even bothered to play the game and just want to see it fail.
7830) What an absolute mess. I feel bad for everyone else involved in creating this, that had to work with such horrible writing. Neil, this is going to follow you through the rest of your poorly-chosen career, you absolute dolt. As far as I, and many other people are concerned, this is a cringe fanfic, and in no way canon.
7831) An outstanding sequel to one of the greatest games ever made. The game makes your think about your actions and the consequences of it. No one is truly a good guy in this world.
7832) A lot of violence and lesbians what more could a man want. I don't know why the people hate.
7833) I Loved The First Part And This Second Part Is Better In Every Way...❤️ Thanks ND And ND...
7834) This shows how people are absolutely stupid, a wonderful game gets a bad score just because Ellie is a lesbian or why Joel dies, that's things they don't change the fact that the game is good or bad, but people don't care and criticize it badly just for that
7835) For me it has been one of the best games this year taking into account the playability, linearity, scenarios, etc. Some people will fairly judge the story, but it does not take away those little details that make it a great game. I would have liked another type of story but the game is excellent
7836) Such a beautiful (and sad) story and all the emotions. Totalt love it. Masterpiece
7837) A misunderstood masterpiece. Visually and technically the game is stunning. The fights are engaging and intense. The game is just a fun and enjoyable experience.
7838) I never wanted this game to end. I never wanted this game to end. I never wanted this game to end. I never wanted this game to end. I never wanted this game to end. I never wanted this game to end. I never wanted this game to end. I never wanted this game to end. I never wanted this game to end. I never wanted this game to end.I never wanted this game to end. I never wanted this game to end. I never wanted this game to end. I never wanted this game to end. I never wanted this game to end.
7839) Just wow what an amazing game naughty dog   is the best the industry have to offer.
7840) One of the best games ever made in history,  in fact probably one of the best cinematic pieces ever made
7841) This game is just great, the story, the scenery, the characters, everything about it is just amazing.,It's a great revenge story, and I don't get why people didn't like it.
7842) very good,Don’t believe other people’s comments,Only by experiencing it will you know how good the game is
7843) Don't believe those haters since you start to playing the video game is wonderful, yo be honest is last of us with a lot of upfrades, you will be happy with this game, greeting from El Salvador,.
7844) DO NOT LISTEN TO PATHETIC REVIEW BOMBERS WHO HAVEN’T EVEN FINISHED OR PLAYED THE GAME,The game is a masterpiece. Don’t listen to the people crying that Joel’s death wasn’t all sun shine and rainbows in a **** POST APOCALYPSE, don’t listen to the insecure and pathetic neck beards who are angry that gay people exist. The game doesn’t shove the SJW stuff in your face unless to you that means showing you anything that isn’t heterosexual. I am 12 hours in and the there was about three lines of dialogue where Ellie calls someone a bigot because they called her a dyke. Literally nothing else. If you are emotionally threatened by that, it’s your problem. The graphics: fantastic The locations: fantastic The combat: tense and thrilling especially at the hardest difficulty The characters: interesting and complex Anyone with a brain knows that no matter what this game doesn’t deserve a **** 3
7845) Having finished the game 20 minutes ago, I must say I really enjoyed this piece of art. It is a really worthy sequel that is even netter than the first game. I highly recommend it.
7846) One of the most intense and moving games ever made. A technical marvel and a new standard for narrative In gaming. I guarantee you the majority of bad user reviews are from people that haven’t even played the game.
7847) The game tries to reinvent a way of telling a story (just like the first), and in my opinion it succeeds, they make you hate abby with all your strength, so that in the middle of the game you control her and see her side , realizing that his revenge did not work, and that Jeol was also wrong. I literally loved this innovative way, and I think most people didn’t understand and that’s why this game is taking hate, My congratulations Naughty dog
7848) Like most of the people review bombing this game, I've never played it or the original.
7849) Beautiful as the first game...don’t mind about others bad review... it’s worth buying and playing it
7850) people are borring netflix like thinks,,trans character dosen't make special this game,,and why this game act like the movie,,and revievs writing by journalist this explain that game review
7851) All in this game is awesome. And its very sad, that 90 percent of the ratings here are from people who can’t afford to form their own opinions by playing and after watching 480p streams they run to put low ratings and hate the game. Shame on you.
7852) Best game ever, not for homophobic people, good gameplay, good history, must have
7853) Love the gameplay and story! Enjoyed the graphics, almost couldn’t believe it was not real. Had my jaw on the ground, along with the story, ND was bold with this and for me it worked.
7854) I don’t really know how to put this game in words currently but if you have a chance to play this game do so. Easily one of the best games ive ever played. Also be made homophobes and transphobes.
7855) Too many people have jumped on the hate bandwagon, and not enough people have stopped and formed their own genuine opinions. Not everyone will like this game, and if you are completely opposed to change, you probably won't either. The story is heartfelt and touching, the gameplay is fantastic, and the visuals are stunning. I enjoyed the **** out of this game, and there is a high change you will too.
7856) I cried, I laughed, I cried some more. Fantastic experience start to finish. Even being spoiled 2 months prior to release it didn’t ruin my experience. Story and gameplay are all S tier. Highly recommend if you were a fan of the first game.
7857) in every generation of consoles there is always a masterpiece. the last of us part 2 is the masterpiece of the current generation.
7858) I enjoyed it to be honest if you try to understand the story it actually shows a real life event. Not everybody get a happy ending.
7859) Tbh it really is a shame that a bunch of salty gamers and trolls would gang up to try and tarnish the name if this special game. I am a souls diehard and games like TLOU are not always my cup of tea but when playing this game it is honestly hard to critique it as it is one of the most immersive and detailed environments in have ever walked through in a video game. The story naughtydog seemed to somehow avoid what ever other company does and made it cringey and harder to fully get into. This game is an instant classic and in just playing 30 minutes of this games it would be easy to understand howdy the critics all gave this score what it deserved.
7860) Beautiful, heartbreaking. Story telling at its finest. Haters gonna hate, just play the game, go on the journey.
7861) Amazing! I think it deserves at least 8 I loved it! The scenario was great characters were great
7862) The last of us part II is an amazing game, as good as the first one! (Or better)
7863) The last of us part 2 is a generation defining game and the perfect follow up to the original title
7864) I'm terribly disappointed by the so-called fans of this franchise. As Neil Druckmann points out, TLoU2 has more than 4 times the reviews by users within 2 days of release than TLoU1 in seven years. Ask yourself: does any polish game, even with subpar story, deserve a **** 3.6 on average? If the answer is yes, maybe you guys don't understand how to review a video game. Boycott with your wallet all you want, but review bombing an excellent game in terms of technical standpoint just shows how immature the gaming community is.
7865) I started hating it right after they killed Joel in the most disrespecting way but let's just face the reality, we already knew it was supposed to happen any way and not everyone get to choose how they die. Joel's death was a big shock to me however I still continued playing it as the gameplay and graphics are 10/10 without a doubt. I seriously hated Abby so much but after discovering her side of the story I began to like that character, and I think she was way better than Ellie after how Ellie got annoying. No complaints whatsoever. Really liked Ellie in the end like she was so badass than ever before, and she let Abby go. Hence this shows no one was hero or villain, both continued to suffer as long as they kept stabbing each other's back.,Best game ever, really enjoyed every single moment of it except for Joel's death scene of course but could have give us more time to play as him. Definitely loved the flashback scenes of both Abby and Ellie.,I wouldn't mind if the game continues to get DLC featuring Joel as playable character, that would totally rock. 8/10 for the storyline and 10/10 for the graphics & gameplay
7866) A wonderful game.  the expression on the face of each person is great I have no words
7867) best game in the world these haters ought not to have played, and they are talking nonsense, all xbox fan boy.
7868) One of the best games ever.. great graphics and gameplay better than most games.. i am more than halfway through the game
7869) the game is quite good, the cinematics and the game mode is very well developed.,Even if criticism overshadows the game, we have to give it a try at least
7870) An incredibly worthy sequel to one of the best games ever. Try avoiding spoilers, they hold absolutely no value without the context of the game. Going in cold is very rewarding. The sound design, acting, graphics and animations are best in class and represent a great way to cap of the PS4 generation. A must-have game, especially if you liked the first one.
7871) I appreciate the creators' audacity to kill Joel, which got people so mad about this game, it's a bold move, yet necessary to give Eli the drive and the goal to fight, if else the game wouldn't be any different from the first part..
7872) Absolutely stunning from start to finish. Gameplay sticks to the principles of the first game but has improved on environments and combat. Storyline and character development have clearly been an area of,focus and the world was beautifully fleshed out in breathtaking detail. Definitely my game of the generation so far.
7873) Amazing! One ir the best games off all times!,I never imagined how a game could bê só intense!
7874) Hands down one of the best (if not THE best) Games i have ever played - and I startet with a NES.,,I never felt more attached to a fictional Character (straight male here). The story got me fulltime. It was a blast to play.,,Before you enter the hate-Train take your time to make up your own mind. So you wont miss one of the best Games ever made.
7875) Badass and amazing ! Only game i have ever bought a collectors edition for and worth it ! Should have got the ellie eddition.
7876) All i can say is the hype was REAL !!! Stunning graphics , Stunning Gameplay !!,As for the Story - Some people will not like it others will Love it .... And When i say Love it , it doesnt mean i m happy about it .. its just not a typical ending we see in all games .. This is not Uncharted ... Its the Last of us .. and its name itself tells you the sorrow story !!,In this horrific world therr are consequences to your actions , and it catches up to you . .  This is not for a casual gamer . . this is such a unique piece of art by Naughtydog . . Ita definitely the Game Of The Year and Game of the decade
7877) I don't understand how Joel believed Abby so easily, and Tommy told her about their place! In Part 1 Joel saved his life just by 14 years old girl when he was injured hard, but in Part 2 Neil just killed him so easily!  THAT'S UNBELIEVABLE & Don't make sense!, and letting the muderer run away just like that!
7878) This game is awesome, don't let the negativity of others ruin what is an amazing work of art. Naughty Dog outdid themselves on this one. The attention to detail and story telling are second to none.
7879) Lol those idiots who rated this game 0 need a psychologist. The visuals and details alone make you nut. What did they expect from an old man and a teenager? To survive in a zombie apocalypse and live peacefully while ignoring their enemies? The game would've been more realistic if one of them could die in the first game. Why no one gave a **** about the walking dead when you had to kill lee by yourself? Or when in the avengers the main character and a few more super hero's died? Grow up kids.
7880) very good game This is just a shame. I waited 7 years to play this game? I hope Neil Drakman realized that people are not idiots and will not use this **** that you did under the pressure of Anita Sarkeesian. They should already understand that her pathetic opinion,and lea
7881) What's the matter with you?  The best action of the best story of the graphic.
7882) Amazing, but isnt for everyone. For me, is a masterpiece. The gameplay is rich, and the history is cruel.
7883) One of the best games I've ever played just like the first game I don't know why people rate it so unfair it's a masterpiece.
7884) Masterpiece, from start to finish. The game is gruesome and show you how bad the world has become. Whatever  you think you know, you are not prepare for this
7885) if people would get their heads out of their **** and finaly play a game with no opinion to begin with, that would be great. Loved the graphics, loved that they kept true to the original mechanics , loved the story in all of its unpredictableness. people are here talking about social justice warriors, i get that.,it's an upcoming trend, but don't play your sjw card every **** time!!
7886) this game is worth being played no matter if you love it or hate it at the end It only means that you have a point of view But don't be stupid asses withe only hate in them
7887) last of us 2 best game ever i love it grapghics gameplay combat story everything is such a rush fun thrill and adventure
7888) This game makes everything else out there look like a joke. Even if your bothered by the story as a game this has no equal. Masterpiece
7889) Now,this is my favorite game(just like the first part). I dont understed why all this haters do this? They just  sow a few spoilers, and  makes conclusions based on this. You don’t even play in this game!!! And you spoils to everybody around and say thats you have a good intentions, but you just selfish people. You must, at least evaluate the unrealistic work of graphic designers and programmers. Be objective and don't act like stupid offended children. I think that this is a very deep game, when I finished the game I understand that it changed me in some things. I recommend it to everybody, don’t watch let’s play, pass it by yourself.
7890) This is the best game i've ever played!! PERFECT!! Better than the first one in every ways!!!
7891) The entire game is about how far we will go to find inner piece within ourselves and others. I'll start with Abby because I find her character to be the most interesting. We are introduced to Abby after she has just woke up from a nightmare. Remember this because it is the whole theme of Abbys story. Later on in the game we find out that the nightmares are cause by abby finding her dad dead on the floor. Abby is having these nightmares because she blames herself for her fathers death which is why she kills Joel. However, after she kills Joel, she still doesn't fins the inner piece she wanted, she still has nightmares about her fathers death. This is until we are introduced to yard and lev. After abby saves yara and lev, she finally gets to wake up from having a peaceful dream. She managed to find inner piece by helping 2 children. She saw hope in lev (remind you of joel). I'll talk about Ellie now because she is basically going through the same journey as abby. She is trying to find inner piece with herself because she blames herself for Joel's death. However, we see that Ellie is constantly questioning her actions throughout the game. She wants to find inner piece with herself and she thinks that killing abby will do that. However at the end of the game ellie spares abby. Why? Because all throughout the game, ellie keeps having these flashbacks to seeing Joel's dead body and the floor. She thinks that killing abby will make her find piece within herself. However, as soon as abby is about to be drowned to death by ellie, ellie stops herself from killing abby because she no longer has the flashback of joels dead body on the floor. Instead, she sees her and joels final conversation and how she really wants to find peace with Joel and forgive him. Which is the whole message of the game, finding forgiveness and pushing how far you have to go to get there. The game is a complex masterpiece. People are just blinded by their hatred towards abby.
7892) Don’t pay attention to the review bombing, this game is actually a gem. Epic storytelling and gameplay, one of the best ps4 games
7893) Although i dislike the ending the game and its main characters is still incredible, graphically it is the best game i have seen on the PS4, and gameplay wise it is one of the more innovative games, the concept art and the game itself are beautiful while there are also so many memorable missions like Ellie's birthday and Eugenes basement. No matter what anyone says i love this game and i will share it with everyone i can.
7894) This game is amazing! From the voice acting to the animation, gameplay, and story. I can't believe the user review is getting bombed the way it is, it's shameful! If you loved the first one than you will love/hate this game for all the right reasons.
7895) Amazing job. Maybe the best one so far in 2020. Gameplay graphics and story absolutly glorious.
7896) OMFG People who haven’t even played the game or finished it are giving it 0 just to bring the game down. The game is awesome, it does things what you wouldn’t expect and shows that there is no hero in the world of the last of us. Everyone, every character does what is necessary to survive and faces the consequences afterwards. People want to slam the game just because. Oh it’s SJW, OH IT’S ANTI-TRUMP, OH IT’S NOT WHAT I WANTED IT TO BE. geez, grow up. It’s a game. Play it, and stop trying to destroy it because of whatever. The game is deep, detailed, beautiful, sad, and passes a message. Everyone that played the first should play it. And even the ones that haven’t. Also, even if you don’t like the story review the game for what it has? Don’t give it a 0!? Have you ever played a game that deserves a 0? I have and ND games and always 9+ so “enough with the **** like Ellie says. Play the game guys. And let’s give it a fair score. Let’s show these haters they are lesser than us. Peace!
7897) I really enjoyed this game!, and I'm looking forward to see more from naughty dog :) people can't appreciate anything nowadays..
7898) i am very happy that I could buy the Special Edition before it was totally sold in Brazil. Thanks Naughty dog for the experience s2
7899) A great sequel to one of - if not the greatest - game on the last generation of consoles. Don’t listen to the negative comments because some online influencer or dumb friend told you to. The game is great. I think everyone who played the first one, & really enjoyed it, will definitely enjoy this one. Play through the game & make your decision upon completion or partial play through. I’m having a blast & Ive been getting the same feeling/feelings I had from playing the precious title. It feels great to finally have a game invoke this type of emotion on people again. I highly recommend this absolute piece of art. Trust me, the comments people are making are false. Just a bunch of haters on the hate train.
7900) Just rolled credits on this one. No doubt, this will be my pick for game of the year. An incredible focus on the justification and consequences of choices, and how those choices can’t be defined as “good” or “evil”. Absolutely incredible.
7901) I do really enjoy this game, except the part how Joel died. So far it’s a very interesting plot to say the least, but the relationship with Ellie and Dina was a nice relationship, very controversial but it was not a bad idea
7902) This game is amazing. It let's you view the story from the hero and villain's perspective.
7903) Very good game, spectacular graphics, excellent game design, menorable characters
7904) I still haven't finished the game, but I would, without a doubt, recommend it to anyone and just because Joel dies (which was sad) doesn't mean it's a bad game.
7905) This Game is absolutely fantastic. One of the best Games I've ever played in my life. 1110! Thanks @NaugtyDog for creating this amazing game and journey ❤️
7906) From the graphics to the mechanics, this game is amazing. TLOU2 has very few bugs that I've encountered, as well. The writing is perfectly fine, as well. Theres a surprise very early in the game, and at first it made me very worried for the rest of the game, but after playing through the game, I can safely say that I wouldnt have it any other way.
7907) Great overall gameplay. Complaints of the way Joel is killed is over dramatic. It causes emotion of sadness and anger, which is what I think Naughty Dog was aiming for. After Joel’s death it gives motivation to seek out his killers. The world of TLOU2 is not for the weak who expect fairy tale endings.
7908) Funny people are saying story must  takes defferent  way  what way?  The way you like? Great game dark brutall   balck as  it is get. 10/10
7909) I was wrong about rating the game through reviews and feedback from other people.  To be honest, I was initially charged with the negative regarding tlow 2. But, after a couple of hours of gameplay, I realized that I couldn't tear myself away!  The plot, live characters, deep LIFE questions, emotional intensity, everything is there. I burst into tears at the end of the game ... honestly, I just could not contain my emotions ... For myself, I understood what this game is about.  It's not about pumped-up women or same-sex love, no.  For me, it is primarily about forgiveness and cruelty. Do not listen to anyone and be sure to try to plunge into a world where it is so hard for people to remain human.
7910) reading the other comments here on the website I realized that the players were not really prepared for this masterpiece. the last of part 2 expanded the first in all aspects. impeccable graphics, gameplay and facial expressions. best game I've ever played. The history is incredible.
7911) The best game I’ve played ever, I understand the other critics for the history but I can’t criticize Naughty Dog for this because they took risks in this and made things nobody would dare in videogames industry. Great graphics, great sound and great history that will open new doors in future games. It’s a must play.
7912) Absolute masterpiece.,Visuals-the greatest graphics alongside with RDR 2 yet,Gameplay-if you love the first part’s gameplay you will be absolutely impressed.,The plot-it’s great but not the level of deepness from the first part. Nonetheless one of the best stories in this generation.
7913) Heartrending. Simply the most impressive piece of videogame narrative I've ever experienced.
7914) Incredible game. I loved everything about it. The story is great and the gameplay is awesome. The story isn’t quite as good as the original but nothing is and the gameplay is so much better.
7915) I believe that this beautiful game does not spoil the first part and is directly related to it. And those idiots who rate at zero do not even understand what it is like for developers to see such ratings. I believe that this game is the best in the last 5 years. I advise everyone to go if you're certainly not an idiot who believes that the topic of homosexuality spoils the game, in my opinion, it only complements it and fills some colors. I am not a very tolerant person (I am from Russia), but I like the theme of homosexuality in this game very much, it is not propaganda, it was presented very smoothly and correctly and this theme fits perfectly into the entourage of the game. To be honest, what about the tears, I let a tear for the game about 3 times. Be reasonable and do not put a score of 0, not playing this beautiful game, think about the feelings of the developers! Thanks for your attention!
7916) Incredible game. Story is phenomenal, like a gut wrenching, heart stopping, action horror movie with real emotion. Don’t believe the low rated reviews — it’s just salty gamerbros who are upset the main character isn’t a straight white dude.
7917) I think, this is the most important and interesting storytelling experience for years!
7918) I seriously am in love with this game so far. I’m about 20 hours in, and while it does have its flaws, I still adore it. The dialogue is wonderful, the motion of the game is engaging, and the worlds are incredibly built. I don’t understand why so many people dislike this game, but I personally think it is a fantastic and engrossing ride so far.
7919) Excelent game, It is a very polished game and with quite good mechanics, both the setting and the landscapes are very well made and the characters are very well developed.
7920) If you participate in the review-bombing, **** you. You can't look at this game and think it deserves a 0. Even if you personally dislike the story, there are so many redeeming qualities about this game like the world, the visuals, the acting, the servicable but still enjoyable gameplay, the music, and the absurd attention to detail. Be genuine, and maybe your bad review could make some sense and give others a reason to reconsider.
7921) The game of the year. Graphics, plot and characters are awesome! Creators made this game with love.  10/10
7922) +Graphics,+Gameplay,+Story (sad but great),+++Graphics! They are stunning. Kept me awake just looking and running  around
7923) Actually, this review bombing without playing the game is awful.,Can't judge a book only looking at the outside of it
7924) Visually stunning. Story is top notch and has some serious twists. An emotional rollercoaster. One of the best game series.
7925) I think many people appreciate this game without completing it. Many will agree with me. Dear users and players! Please be literate and objective. Appreciate the game. The fact that it is not on your devices is completely your problem. All the best.,The game fully met all expectations. NaughtyDog again showed the level. Of course, the game has an LGBTQ agenda. But she cannot overshadow everything that was done by the Druckman team. Huge work has been done. This is unbelievable. I put 10.
7926) This is a great sequel and worthy of your time,from gameplay to story and everything in between .Lots of negative reviews posted within 5 or 6 hours yet it’s a 20 to 30 hour game ,so obviously trolls and haters on here .Solid 10/10 from me.
7927) A masterpiece! Don’t believe on people saying otherwise. This is a story that makes you feel everything the characters are feeling, I just loved.
7928) Gorgeous graphics on my 4k television. Great characters. Tight controls. Been waiting for this game forever. Finished part one the same day I started part two. Naughty Dog is the MVP here. Damn good game and I'm only 2 hours in
7929) Good game, but too much LGBT and they repeating thang again and again. Technically it is perfection
7930) Don't lissen to the infantil haters and review bomber. Obvisouly it's not a fairy tale, and i feel sorry about some characters. But this game is f*king awesome. Recalled the best moments of Game of Thrones and The walking dead. But still The Last of Us.
7931) Its brilliant! Such a great game. 10 of 10. Good work of Naughty Dog doing this game, perfect characters, amazing history. The game feels awesome
7932) It is intense, the story is beautiful and the gameplay is great. Best game of this generation
7933) After seeing all this negative reviews I still decided to buy it on the release date and see for myself. OMG, this game is so good gameplay wise and specially the graphics, presentation. The story was sad and some parts a little disappointing but that doesn’t matter because the gameplay is what really matters. Breath of the wild’s story suffered by not being as deep as it’s predecessors, but was universally praised for its good gameplay and presentation. It is the same thing here, a very good quality triple A title here so good you will want to play it again once you beat the campaign. There were some slight changes to the gameplay and combat system but not big changes but is okay as the first game mechanics were near perfect so it wasn’t necessary to completely change the combat system. What we got here is a good game that deserves a chance as NaughtyDog keeps doing what it does best a very fun game that really entertains you, as that’s what the video games are in the first place, to have fun. Please play this game is very fun, you might not like where the direction of the story goes but the overall game is what really matters. Stop listening to those haters who negatively reviewed this game and they haven’t even played it or even completed the first five hours of the game. Or didn’t even like the first game in the first place as they suck at it from the beginning. If you like the challenge in a game and using your head often this game is for you, you won’t be disappointed. This is a masterpiece that will be talked forever as one of the most controversial games in this decade. Worth the wait.
7934) Game of this generation well done naughty dog,It has best graphic best gameplay and unforgettable story. Playing as abby is not bad idea for me it is a great idea and unique thing in video games playing as a villain too to know the story of her too there is nothing wrong in that.
7935) So I'm just going to talk about the story, gameplay and graphics are already a 10/10 for me. And I'm sure most of yawl may share the same opinion till here.,Now, where you all will disagree is this. SPOILER ALERT.,I do understand why people wouldn't like this game. But I'd also say or quote Troy Baker, "keep an open mind".  If you actually look and understand the story closely, the writing does induce the feeling of loss of a loved one in real life. I mean, to be honest, I've never actually felt such anger for some character dying, that too in a game. The game makes you feel 'Hate'.,Well yeah, anytime anyone can nitpick this w being 'overly complex' just to keep up w the 1st one. Eventually, inducing hate in audience for the series. But if you do look at some avant garde film concepts, you'd definently realize it's not only about relatability with audience's mind, but also about making them 'feel' the emotion. (Wouldn't be a right example, in comparison. But may prove my point for you, only if you're interested in the avant garde),I mean look at films by Andre Tarkovsky, they make you feel 'time' or by Carlos Reygadas which make you feel 'a perplexed individual's reality' or even by Quentin Tarantino which make you feel comedy in absurdity.,Now talking about the complexity, (just my opinion) I felt it was perfectly balanced out. Neil Druckmann didn't force you to 'empathise' with Abby. Coz if he did, he wouldn't have gone for an aftermath ending where an older Ellie takes an effort to take revenge and looses all she had; my man could've simply made this game an Abby biased game instead of keeping it 50/50 each character perspective with Ellie biase. I mean, I'm damn sure even Druckman knew nothing can account for Joel's death. So what he did instead is show you a 'perspective' of a villian (and not her side of the story by forcing you to empathizing with her). And to keep that 'perspective' interesting he uses the concepts of 'war' during the Abby sequences to elaborate how everyone has an internal war. Abby's internal war is guilt, Ellie's revenge, Lev's sexuality.,And just like a war to end all war does nothing but creates more, the ending sequence where they both fight like beaten up pigs is just so you see this situation from an objective yet ellie's POV.,Well, at least to me (call me an opem minded naive) but honestly... by the end of the game, I felt Joel did have to go. (Though it's a personal biase) But w the concepts of war, space and ocean the game did get meexistential and made feel Joel's death as a trivial part of survival. Yet I cried when he did. (Well, some might've felt it's a drag.. but I just simply loved the game),Thanks for reading this far and wasting your precious time :P
7936) Amazing gameplay and I actually like to story.  Dont listen to people review bombing to be popular.  This game is fantastic
7937) Safe one of the best games ever on ps4,A must play for all ps4 users ;)....
7938) Despite the review bombing **** here this game is absolutely astonishing. Within two hours my heart broke but filled me with rage, rage to literally kill everyone and everything I see . They pulled no punches I mean what did you think was going to happen to make Ellie snap her new gf dies **** no use your heads if you didn't see this coming you're just not observant look how the first game started... This is a once a generation game it's leaps and bounds above anything seen before the mechanics to the way Ellie moves and the contextual awareness is truly something. On a nice tv in 1000 but HDR glory it's eye meltingly delicious and I can't praise the team at naughty dog enough for the script the execution of everything it's truly a wonderful visceral violent in depth hate machine revenge story it's amazing. This is a 10/10 make no mistake people are 2 hours in and review bombing that's just ignorant and you didn't make the game the creative choices here are bold new scary and ****ing intense. 1000% a must play experience both games.
7939) This game is beautiful, the movement, the main protagonist and the plot are perfect. This is the best game ever exit for ps4 exclusive. Perfect
7940) Best game I have played in my 20 years gamer career (I’m 30). Nothing more to add.
7941) Great follow up. One of the rare games which pulls you deep into the story. Gameplay is fantastic.
7942) Amazing. People voting like fascist is embaracing. An incredible game. I’m loving it
7943) People that are review bombing the gme after getting too 2 hour story mark are dumb, this game is amazing.
7944) I'm not gonna say much... only this. you can really see the stupidity of humanity when you look at the ratings and comments
7945) I like the new storyline, I think it provides  a fresh air to zombie games, in which they only focus on the zombies and leave behind the characters. Awesome game, I'm alnost done with it!!
7946) The guys that says this game is a lame are mostly haters and the guys that didnt even finished the firs chapter of the game . I enjoy spending my time on even walking in this wonderful game
7947) Nice , **** trump. Beautiful game. I cant understand why people is ofended with politic antifa and antihomofobic, all right in home guys?
7948) This is a once in a generation game that sets a new bar for narrative in games.
7949) The sequel of a legend goes without saying, those who score low are not aware of playing games.
7950) This game is just beyond special. You get the feeling of being there, especially while fighting. You can see their hard work in every step.
7951) I support this non-bigoted game creator. Everyone should feel included and represented.
7952) Amazing survival horror with an incredible plot. Once again, Naughty Dog brought us a pieces of art.❤️
7953) This game is STUNNING! The hate for it is from people who did not give the game a chance to begin with. It is a great story and the gameplay is top notch. Naughty Dog did it again! Go get this game...trust me...you won't be disappointed.
7954) Even better than the first, its so good.,Dont pay atention do the bombers, focus on the amazong game and story,AMAZING GAMEPLAY
7955) I'm only a few hours in and this game is fantastic! A beautiful addition to the world of The last of us and Neil Druckman has pulled out all the stops once again. With gorgeous area design and characterisation, I cannot wait to keep playing
7956) The game is incredibly good!!! The story is amazing for several reasons, one of them, is the inclusion of a LGBT character which represents loads of gamers. On top of it, the way the game involves the player makes us feel part of that world. Congratulations!!!
7957) Great game and best experience ever,Graphically is gorgeous,Gameplay is awesome,Story so dark and tragedy,Yeah I wouldn't like to see LGBT eliminate But still it's so awesome and fun, one of the best game you may play,One thing they improve among all other thing is the puzzles And somthing they removed, it won't rowing the experience but it was coll to see and that is the reflection of the light... In TLOU 2013 when the light hit a red wall the reflection in the edges are red unlike TLOU2 this cool detail has been removed
7958) I am only 5 hours in but had to put the rating in when I saw all the hate and fake reviews, the game is very emotional and the controls and animations are exceptional. I will put a final rating later but up to this point the game is masterfully crafted and beautiful. Avoid spoilers at any cost.
7959) A CONSEQUENCE,Like the title says there’s consequences to people’s actions they might think they’re doing the right thing or selfishness Kicks in that’s the big question at the end of Part 1 what happens now what will be the outcome of a persons choice im here to tell you Part 2 you find out this is story telling at it’s finest this is what Naughty Dog is known for they have you get attach to the world and characters this game is not bad like everyone has been saying people just get attached to the characters and that’s what you want in a game like this Ellie has always been the bigger picture it’s always been her story it’s the truth I’m telling you right now to play this game it’s an emotional story of revenge and it’ll break your heart Simply a narrative masterpiece what you come to expect from Naughty Dog
7960) so epic !!!!! the game is very well done in every detail. manages to be intimate, but also with a lot of action!
7961) I was deeply bound with the characters in the first game. Absolutely loved it.,First part of the game - beautiful and stunning. But second - is too much for me. I simply couldn't handle the soulless second half of the game.,9 as a game,0 as storytelling.,Overall 5 is all i can give. Im so sad, almost feel pain for the game.
7962) This plot is a mockery of the first part. The gameplay has gotten worse.,Left-wing society puts pressure on the game, and why, why do you support it? It's pointless. You dig a hole for yourself. If you justify the apocalypse - then why the characters do not have a "mustache"? Why are some parts of the body logically groomed, and some vice versa?,(Translated by Google Translate)
7963) Terrible game. DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY. IM SERIOUS. I really wish i had my 65$ back
7964) This Druckmann's master peace just blow my mind in positive sense! I'm a huge fan of first part and I have defently to play part 2 again!
7965) Lackluster story, incredibly boring uninteresting and unlikable characters. Gameplay largely unchanged from original game. Couldn't bring myself to finish it. I can only post positive reviews for this game but this game deserves less than 3/10 rating
7966) The low ratings are really unfair, I but most haven’t even touched the game. I’m about 10 hours in right now and the story thusfar is amazing and so is the gameplay. But i’m of the opinion that we shouldn’t judge a book by it’s cover so a rating of someone whom has played an hour of the game isn’t really fair is it?
7967) Game is great in spite of what toxic homophobic and transphobic gamer culture would have you believe.
7968) Is great sequel have  a great story and graphics is a nice action  adventure game is emotional  and imaginative  ,have a great narrative atmosphere
7969) So this game is VERY OBVIOUSLY getting review bombed. I see review bombing as an extremely distasteful and immature practice... First off, there is NO WAY that this many people finished the game after only being out a few hours (when the negative reviews started popping up), therefore they're basing their reviews off of hearsay, political views and/or very initial opinions at the least - which is not fair.  Admittedly I'm only about 5 hours in and I'm working from home if that tells you anything - I gots the time to put in and I've barely grazed the surface. I mean are all these people just like "F$*% it" and staying up to play for 30 hours straight ignoring the rest of their lives? I don't think so...,,The story-line *5 hours-in* is emotionally charged, the characters are ok - not mind-blowing but also not worthy of a zero... The very first thing that caught my attention is the graphics. Now I'm a PC gamer and I originally only bought the PS4 for Bloodborne.  I've come to appreciate the PS4 as it's opened me up a whole new category of PS4 exclusives which are mostly top tier quality games.  Within the first 20 minutes I got used to the 24fps @ 4K on the PS4 (down from 144fps @4K on my monster PC) and in all honesty I was pretty blown away...  (•_•) ( •_•)>⌐■-■ (⌐■_■),,I think the problem of the blatant review bombing stems from within two areas... 1) there have been some leaks and some of these story-based leaks have been extremely unpopular with hardcore fans and 2) The use of LGBT characters is seen by many in gaming culture as a sneaky way of forcing a political agenda onto the audience.  This kind of thing definitely happens and it can ruin a game if it's over the top, but IMHO it's NOT the case here.  Before even giving the game a chance many stubborn fans are screaming "SJW! SJW!".  For myself, I appreciate diversity in both life and in games.  I love seeing/hearing a story from someone who doesn't make similar lifestyle decisions as I do or maybe belongs to a subculture that I don't have much knowledge of.  It's eye opening and by having some diversity in games it only helps the community.  I do admit that I don't like political agendas shoved down my throat either but that is NOT what is happening here.  She just happens to be gay, that's it, end of story - get over it.  I honestly think that by continuously bringing this up it only makes the gaming community look like we're bigoted/closed-minded and I know that many of us are not.,,As I stated, I'm only about 5 hours in and I've been trying not to catch any spoilers... I will come back and write an HONEST review once I have finished the game but for now at least, take user reviews with a grain of salt.
7970) This game does everything right.,From a technical standpoint, this is one of the more ambitious games out there. From the graphics, to unprecedented rope physics, all the way to a fully functioning guitar - Naughty Dog surprises with an unbelievable level of detail, without ever sacrificing the game’s performance. The story is what you’d expect from the next title in the installment. With that, I mean that the story meets (and exceeds at times) the unreasonably high expectations anyone may have had after playing the first title. It’s original, heartfelt, and sincere. The characters are so well written that their adventure feels like your adventure, love and heartbreak, and all.,The gameplay is a perfect extrapolation of what made the first game great. From combat, to stealth passages, to small passages of open world exploration, it doesn’t do anything incredibly new, but it does everything incredibly right. Who should play this: If you’re a person with a heart, and you love heartfelt stories driven by sincerely written characters, you should definitely play this game. It does stand on its own legs, but to understand the characters’ motivations, you’ll need to have played the previous title.,Who shouldn’t play this: If you can’t stand blood and gore, and strong language, you might  want to be careful. This is also not a game for children. Additionally, if you have a problem with the creative director denouncing Nazis, or there being gay characters, you shouldn’t play this game, and instead take the next rocket heading straight into the sun.
7971) Finished the game in 45 hours and i couldn't get enough of it i am playing now on the survivor mode and its a blast, its simply one of the best games of all time, i adore the story the animations the graphics the gameplay the sound design and Abby.
7972) On my third run this game is an art what can I say goty contender for sure also hats off to naughty Dog for this masterpiece game of the generation
7973) The Last of Us Part II is easily one of the best looking PlayStation 4 games. Transitions between cut-scenes and gameplay are practically unnoticeable, with lifelike faces and animations that raise the bar for interactive storytelling. It does come at a slight cost however as it’s capped at 30 frames-per-second, dipping slightly below that in very rare instances. Music plays a central role not only enhancing the mood, but also humanizing the world and characters. If you manage to find a guitar lying around, Ellie can practice for a bit, offering a nice distraction from the unforgiving elements. Like the original, companions accompany you periodically on the journey. During combat they occasionally help out by dispatching enemies, but problems similar to the original game are still present. While partner movements aren't as awkward as before, they still feel artificial as they bounce around in an effort to follow your lead. When not engaged in combat however, they offer touching moments, levity, and insight into the world. Countless conversations range from mundane to deeply personal and further contribute to the incredible storytelling. The Last of Us Part II presents an absolutely crucial and challenging narrative about love and hate. Characters have convincing motivations that leave you thinking about more than what’s in front of you. The places it takes you to are awe-inspiring to explore, with unrivaled attention to detail, and although the combat is somewhat forgiving, it remains thrilling throughout much of the harrowing journey. The Last of Us Part II leaves a deep, emotional impact, and this unforgettable continuation should not be missed.
7974) A real step back from the first game,If you liked the first game AVOID this one, do NOT waste your money on it,For the record I am not against the LGBT community but when you attach those subjects out of nowhere to a series that was not leaning in that direction in the first place it just seems very forced and inserting "anti white" propaganda out of nowhere too is just dumb (let me remind you that racism isn't one sided)
7975) The best game, those who give bad marks did not play this game, these are all owners of xbox and PC, envy silently.
7976) Game of the year!!!! Incredible gameplay. Amazing visual content. Impressive Story.
7977) This game, which I have been waiting for so long to receive, was not disappointed.  It is a masterpiece. Must have
7978) Keeping up to the standard of the last of us. The graphical power of the PS4 is truly shown in this game.
7979) Really great story, gameplay, camera work and sound. All negative review are fakes.
7980) This game is almost perfection... the story is amazing; the characters well thought of... gameplay is fluid and very polished.  This is a story driven game, and even if I don’t agree on the way one of the character dies... the context of it all... makes sense.  Don’t pay atrention to those 0-7 reviews those are people who probably didn’t buy/play the game and are basing everything out of the leaks;  you can tell by their repetitive bits they mention.  Play the game with an open mind and be amazed!  9.5 out of 10.
7981) Awesome game , they did something completely different and I can understand why some people might be mad but when we look at it from an outside perspective we realise that our beloved characters are part of an unforgiving world where revenge and survival are at its core. Love it or hate it but saying its bad because you didnt like the way it went is not a valid argument. Good graphics , levels design and awesome perfomances by the actors.
7982) What a masterpiece of gaming. Gone are the dreary environmental puzzles. Instead there is a fabulous story that everyone can relate too. Ignore the haters. They are most likely Trump supporters!
7983) SIMPLY incredible, a unique and priceless experience ... intimidating environment and each character very well developed
7984) I have no words to describe this amazing game, Above ratings! Best game of the year like always
7985) Bought 2 copies to piss off all the snowflake gamers who are scared of girls. r/banvideogames is right.
7986) This game is beautiful, raw, and flawlessly produced. Don’t be swayed by people bombing the user score. They are just immature, ignorant people who can’t accept change. Life changes, and if everything was the same in this game, what would be the point exactly? You’re supposed to feel uncomfortable and feel like you’re wandering into the unknown because, well, you are. Pay attention the the critic score on this one.
7987) a masterpiece, and the total score is only low like that because of homophobia
7988) Idk why people keep hating on this masterpiece Like seriously grow up people most of you didn’t even play it yet
7989) Good game. Graphics are great as expected, combat was enjoyable. People are just jumping on the hate bandwagon and overreacting with biased opinions because they want the game to be bad, accessibility options offered is amazing, should be an industry standard.
7990) what the hell is wrong with ya'll? I understand that you may not liike a game but giving 1 point? it's obviously you do not think
7991) Best adventure ever! So much fun, very good story!,Graphics is a amazing! Visual effects so juice
7992) Such a immersive beautiful game with a fantastic narrative. Would highly recommend to anyone.
7993) fantastic gameplay and story soundtrack powerful this game is not for kid...,.,...,.......
7994) Breathtaking! Dark, cruel, real. Ignore the incels--this game is wonderful.
7995) Well for sure not everyone will like this game..i don't hate it but im content with how it ended..there is a deep meaning of why it ended that way why ellie had to let abby go if you will focus on that last exchange of words of ellie and joel..where she said she think she can never ever forgive joel for what he did..but she could try..that part right there and maybe she realized that abby had spared her for 2 times now at the joel scene and at the theater. She knows abby is a good person and ellie killing a pregnant person is what really strikes her as abby spared her girl who is pregnant. And if ND never showed abby's part of the story this ending will be much worse or this gane will be much worse it will not justify joel's death..im not saying joel deserved it..but he had it coming since the end of tlou1..im glad we got to play as abby..it shows that part where ND always says there is no good guy or bad guy in this game..and that is the truth in life too. It is our own belief that makes us believe about tye good guy and bad guy oart..and that part is wrong.im content with how this gane ended hope for a sequel though. It's a fresh kind of story for me and im glad it is not ot what i expected
7996) this game is a masterpiece, the ending couldn't be better.The gameplay is incredible, the story is incredible everything is incredible actually.
7997) I just want to say this is a wonderful gorgeus game that naughty dog has ever made.  Good Job
7998) How many times a game can make you cry and play with your emotions? This game is a masterpiece. In all of aspects such as the gameplay, the level design, the story ,the graphics It is the best game that I have ever played.Thank you naughty dog for your care.
7999) Let's support the developers, they now lack this and support for: Pro-labor brutality and the smallest details. The plot is not bad, the gameplay has not changed much. And the summons, well, it didn't bother me.
8000) Absolutely amazing. Gameplay is way better than TLOU 1 and the atmosphere and storytelling is stellar. This kind of cinematic experience is rivaled only by Rockstar's RDR2.
8001) A piece of art, so good as the first one ! The people problem is that the game was so good and they do not espected this to be like this, haters gona hate ! Always !
8002) Some of the best gameplay and graphics of all time. Very cool!! Idk if it’s 10/10 worthy but the majority of the people giving this game 0 haven’t even played the game yet and just decided to give it a 0 before it even came out. The reviews are full of pure hate, spoilers, homophobia so be careful. Never have I seen a community of people work so hard to band together and go out of their way to all create Metacritic accounts just to review bomb the game the first second it was possible. It makes me sad I had to make one to defend this game.
8003) What game were they playing? This is nothing short of a masterpiece. If you played the first game and fell in love with the characters then you will find no shortage of tear jerker moments. The action is great, the characters as strong as ever and the story is engaging as hell. Screw your 4 star ratings. Actually play the damn thing and stop being biased.
8004) Masterpiece shame people are review bombing the game who have never even played it
8005) The Last Of Us Part II is an amazing and beautiful journey while deadly as you move on. The story is great, (not perfect), however the gameplay was MUAH. The combat is just GREAT, every time I deal that finishing blow with a baseball bat or pipe I yell. The immersion is just great, the game is awesome. Definitely a GOTY contender and possible winner! Ignore the low rating cuz their just haters trying to do something. HOWEVER, if you are not ok with seeing limbs getting shot off, blown up, etc, this game may not be for it as it is VERY violent. ND made a great game, and a GOTY winner.
8006) Absolutely incredible game, the story was emotional and engaging, gameplay was phenomenal, characters were memorable and the graphics were jaw dropping!
8007) Actually amazing im adoring this so far, ignore all the fools rating it bad they're just complete idiots
8008) It's really great game.
8009) I think in my opinion this is naughty dogs best game.people need to grow up and stop **** on this gem.when Joel dies, yeah it pissed me off but this is a story about revenge.i bet the majority of you **** haven’t even played the game.best story telling in my opinion
8010) Fantastic game, don’t listen to all the morons who haven’t even played it. It’s a masterpiece.
8011) Great game! f*ck the haters (a.k.a sexists, racists, and bigots).,,The Last of Us Part II is probably one of the most polished video game experiences out there and it’s pretty easy to give it a great score and call it a day.
8012) The last of us part 2 is amazing, this is Godfather part 2. Better than the original.
8013) Don't miss on this Masterpiece many people are hating on it just because their favourite youtubers said that
8014) Great game i love graphics ,story ,atmosphere ,emotional moments  ,is great story with a great mensage the end of the violence cycle
8015) Masterful storytelling and gameplay, I personally cried 4 times during the campaign. I truly believe is a game that everyone should (with an open mind) play. Let’s all hope the vicious cycle of hatred stops one day.
8016) Another great masterpiece by Nati,The game was great, I will play on Sunday, the graphics were also great,Excellent excellent excellent
8017) the story is disappointing, but..... i couldn't vote negative for this game
8018) I think that is a great game, mabye is not the best game of the year but i think is a game very cool about grafics, soundtrack, gameplay, mechanics.,The story that they want tell us is no mabye the best story to tell but it have so much things that we don't know about what happened  5 year ago the last of us part l.,4me is a game of 10 other games have the same 4 only nothing.
8019) This game is just a masterpiece.  Graphics 10/10 Scene 10/10 From the sphere 10/10.  In short, I recommend
8020) tl;dr: it's a cult classic. Just like the first game.,,Now to elaborate, first let's talk about TLOU1:,,- You start the game as Joel's daughter. Then she dies. In the intro. Brutal. To the hands of a main human antagonist (authority). Sets the tone for the rest of the game. Revenge. Anger. Violence.,- She gets replaced by another character. Ellie.,- You get hurt really bad mid-game. You get to play as Ellie. Just to be in her shoes, and realize how badass she is, and how much you/Joel care about her.,- If you're a fan like me, you got to play a second time as her in the DLC. Explaning further what she did when joel was hurt. And she did that to save him. You also learn that she is a lesbian. Her first love dies.,- Some other loveable characters like Bill and that woman from the beginning die during the game. Including the Head of the fireflies.,- Joel kills hundreds of people not to save mankind, but to keep Ellie alive for him. That's beautiful, and this is why people (like me) love that game. But also, from a humanity perspective, he did that for nothing.,- You stealth kill with a bow and arrow, fight clickers, or just walk beautiful nieghborhoods, and cuddle giraffes.,,=> GOTY. best game ever. People like it. Nothing to say storywise, or technically speaking (music, graphics, gameplay mechanics, fun, narration, escape factor, etc.,,There was four-chan in 2013. But no alt-right vs. feminism civil war yet.,,Now TLOU2:,,- You start the game as Ellie. Then Joel dies. Early. Brutal. To the hands of a main human antagonist (Abby). His lies just caught up to him, tbh. Sets the tone for the rest of the game. Revenge. Anger. Violence. (You were deceived, judging by the trailers, that maybe Ellie's new girlfriend died early. Oh, and you knew she was a lesbian, remember?),- He gets replaced by another character.,- You get to play as that another character at some point. Just to be in her shoes, and realize how badass she is, and how much you understand her.,- If you're a fan, you probably get to play as other characters in upcoming DLC. Explaning things further too.,- Some other loveable characters die during the game.,- Ellie kills hundreds of people not to get Kratos revenge, but to realize that Joel is alive in her thoughts, and that killing some more won't bring him back. That's beautiful, and this is why people (like me) love that game. But also, from another perspective, she did that for nothing. As she doesn't kill Abby, and ends up dramatically hurt.,- You stealth kill with a bow and arrow, fight clickers, or just walk beautiful nieghborhoods and sceneries.,- And a few more surprises,,=> GOTY. best game ever for the press and the professionals, the ones deemd controversial and the others. But some people hate it. Nothing to say technically speaking (music, graphics, gameplay mechanics, fun, narration, escape factor, etc.), so they spit on it storywise.,,Four-chan is overtaken by alt-right vs. feminists drama, and a Y Generation that find everything "cringy" and violently hate anything within minutes, as if it was the end of their world.,,Welcome to 2020.
8021) Awesome and beautiful game, the story in great and the gameplay top notch as usual.
8022) The reality of personalities, hurt, pain and life is expressed in a such a gorgeus game like this.
8023) The Last of Us Part 2 made me cry twice. I dont cry when I play videogames, and have not cried in years. Playing the first game is an absolute must before playing this one. #TheLastofUsPartII  is something special. Game of the year, game if the decade, and better than the first!
8024) ITS BEST GAME EVER 10/10 AT YOUR FINGERTIPS HATERS SUCK PUTIN PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD
8025) It's a shame many people posted a bad score for this awesome game. I honestly don't think that any videogame deserves such a bad score for things that really don't care, such as political or ethnical matters. Videogames are made to have fun and to excite everybody, and this game certainly does that. As the first one, this second part of is a masterpiece, no matter how many flaws you try to see, there isn't any.
8026) Don't believe the nonsense negative review...us ps4 gem..and clearly whole noughty dog team out there heart in it.. A must play game...weather you like the story or not...u can't hate it....,Graphics and smoothness of game play is beyond anything out there...and acting is one of the best....
8027) ,The 1st couple hours are slow then picks up in action. Its the same formula as the 1st game that we all loved.
8028) don't know why this game is getting so much hate, im a straight guy and this game had lesbians in so instantly I wanted to play it
8029) Great game.
8030) The best experience I've interacted with this generation. I was worried after hearing negative things on youtube, but it seems like they were WAY off base.
8031) **** the haters. This game was incredible. The first 10,000 reviews were posted by people who don’t even own the game.
8032) It's sad how many people are review bombing this game. There is no possible way thousands of people played a 25+ hour game and beat it within just a few hours of its release, much less played a game this long to its end if they thought it was actually a 0/10.
8033) Excellent game a must play it is so enjoyable naughty dog is truly one of the best studios out their.
8034) This game is absolutely beautiful and amazing, the controls are really good, and the story is also good except for when they killed Joel but let Abby stay alive. Other than that this game absolutely amazing.
8035) Don’t believe the reviews and the hate. Play the game and then form your own opinion. For me I’m loving it and I can’t put my controller down
8036) Amazing gameplay and graphics,the story might not be to everyone's liking but naughty dog has nailed it once again
8037) Just like everyone who's been giving it a 0 or 1, I have not played the game.
8038) The ending was so awesome showing mercy and forgive our friends or even our enemies
8039) The best that has been over the past 1000 years. Starting from graphics, sound, and ending with a cool story. More studios like you would give us such important emotions for us.
8040) Awesome game just as usual with more intense moment with ellie and joel! And some minigames
8041) This game is a masterpiece both looking and gameplay wise. Don’t listen to all these fake reviews that bash this game for no reason. Either they didn’t get more than 1 hour in or they are against lesbians. Either way they are bashing a great game with so much to offer making it a lasting staple in the final months of the current generation of consoles.
8042) All it takes is a little push for Ellie to go mad and her quest for revenge story is a brutalistic masterpiece. Do I need to say more? Play the damn game and fully experience a masterfully crafted sequel that will keep you on the edge of your seat and witness the sheer brutality that needs to be played. The first game is all about love, and the sequel is all about hate and you can see why how rare TLOU2 is compared to the first game and it’s unbelievable. Everything ranging from the newly fleshed acessibility gameplay mechanics all the way to the superb writing by Neil Druckmann and Westworld’s Halley Gross is pure excellence. Naughty Dog, this is easily your guys’ best work since Uncharted 2 and there is a reason why you guys are the top underdogs in the gaming business on delivering the very best experience as possible and I hope you guys get royally compensated for creating this incredible follow-up masterpiece. No wonder why HBO’s The Last of Us is happening with Neil Druckmann and Chernobyl’s Craig Mazin on-board for the live adaptation..
8043) The story and the gameplay present a big improvement.  Graphics and music are outstanding and hey, this is 25-30 hr of pure art. You're gonna cry a couple times.,Ellie ans Abby are awesome characters
8044) Imagine if those leaks never happened. Players would concentrate on the whole story, without specifying certain moments. No one would play the game with leaked scenes in mind. Just try to perceive the story as a chunk, not in pieces. Maybe THEN you will understand.
8045) After 55 hrs to make this beauty 100% platinum what can i say this game is amazing, you need to understand the story to judge it.....its beautiful....next step..... the graphics,  the combat, how the blood spreads....the mechanics of this game are awesome everything 10/10 for me plus game of the year, Congratulations naughty dog and sony
8046) Total disrespect to the first game. Gameplay and graphics are OK but the story sucks. Joel dies **** 2 hours in like some random NPC and not a main character and we only get flashbacks of him and Ellie. Abby is a very unlikable character and I couldn't care less about her no matter how they tried to make me sympathize with her. And in the end it was all for nothing.
8047) Awesome game.... Really a masterpiece.... This game is suffering like death stranding did..... Just people hating and the worst thing.
8048) Don't know why this game is getting so much hate, played through the first few hours and my god how shocking this game is....unmatched facial expressions, incredible level and audio design and phenomenal graphics make this one of the most beautiful worlds ever created... The story is shocking and real.
8049) The Last of Us Part II is a powerful, uplifting, visually stunning masterpiece.
8050) Thanks Nill , this is game i wait 7 years , and now i am in da shocked. Love Naughty Dogs
8051) It deserves 96 score. amazing experience of my whole life. cruel but perfect story. only ND can do this
8052) In fact, the game is great.
8053) Naughty Dog hit it out of the park. The Last of Us part 2 is a phenomenal game in nearly all aspects including story telling, gameplay and graphics
8054) Damn good game. And some impressive storytelling that doesn’t pull its punches
8055) Loved the Game.,,The Gameplay was fun, even when it was brutal.,,The Graphics are fantastic, especially the landscape and environment is engaging.,,I dont need to talk much about the story. what i liked the most is that ND dared to go to routs which no other Videogame till today took. It trys to tell a dark story on the scales of many Movies and Series.,,Its a pity that many Gamers cant play a game where actions have repercussions, where other characters will react to the violence that the player is giving out.
8056) The game has some things some choices that it does that it takes, that it’s not that good or good overall but those things don’t ruin the game or don’t make the story bad...,Yes Joel dying near the beginning could have been at least at the second act of the game and I’m pissed because it was near the beginning but it is what it is.,Also the way Joel died people have to let this go this is TLOU world did you even play the first one all deaths were brutal and real. Yes they could have at least given him a better death but yea...,Playing as Abby is not bad is good seeing the perspective of the villain, seeing both points of views at the same time I didn’t liked it that much but it was because I didn’t want to play with the person that kill Joel still a great idea and it was executed well just something I don’t like.,The ending was good except not killing Abby, even though I like the character growth of Ellie in the end and realizing that she needs to brake the “cycle of revenge” is pretty good also realizing that if she kills Abby is basically the same thing, would have preferred Abby dying and it angers me a little bit but what can you do.,Now one last thing, people forget that Joel has killed hundreds of people yes is survival but he also killed innocent people while being in a hunters group, he killed alot of the fireflies(not saying they were innocents), killed the doctors and basically doomed humanity, we love Joel and we love how he is with Ellie but we can’t forget that he wasn’t a good guy...basically in the end Death/Karma got to him
8057) So for real, about the game, just 4 hours in and there's no doubt that this is the game of the generation, great story, best animation of any game from any platform, graphic is top notch if not the best to data, Really is a huge leap from TLOU1, best $60 I ever spend. a sincere 10/10
8058) We haven't had such a gaming experience here yet! Absolutely brilliant game. Overall, the game looks like one huge work of art. It would be hard to find a mistake in the game. Amazing ..
8059) Although many are angered by the death of Joel, I feel as though it made narrative sense. Joel never pretended to be a good man and did horrible things. He then paid for his actions. I loved him as a character and can take solace knowing that he's with Sarah at least.
8060) I have waited for this game for 7 years and it is a gem I love it so much the story is incredible
8061) A perfect continuation, a darker game that deals more deeply with the true nature of some people, and delves into what we can do for other people we love.,Visually and technically, the best of PS4, with a great story, essential
8062) The gameplay in this game greatly improved. Its intense and rewarding. Characters are interesting and complex with a great story for them. I wasn't expecting this story but I'm happy with the risks it takes. More video game studios  need to take note of what naughty dog does with their story and characters
8063) I have been waiting for years to play this game. Finally, I got it. It's an amazing game with interesting characters and plot. You must own this game. It's a game of the generation. Thanks, Neil and Naughty Dog for your talent and work. Thanks!
8064) 10/10 honestly, I just think that joel's death should be more honorable, however, it's an apocalyptic world so I understand that he dies that way. The game is incredibly beautiful, rich in details, incredible gameplay, magnificent sound, and accessibility that is something to honor. This game takes everything from the first one and makes 10000x better.
8065) People are just haters who take everything for granted, ND did a great job, new gameplay option, compatibility, great story telling, great caracters, made some crazy decision on scenario...,Just one of the best game, of 2010-2020, just below RDR2 for me.
8066) thank you naughty dog for this amazing game.. i love every minute of it.. ty
8067) Very great game....it's a unique experience for the ps4
8068) Simply the best game of the generation and one of the best games ever made.
8069) This game is amazing, a worthy successor of that masterpiece that is The Last of Us.
8070) Don't listen to all the negative user reviews - they haven't even played the game.,TLOU Part 2 is a masterpiece and a milestone in interactive storytelling. A game that will have an enormous impact on the industry. Go play it. Now.
8071) Literally the best game I’ve ever played don’t listen to all the trolls or spoilers. You’ll understand 3 hours in give it a try!
8072) It's Very cool. Excellent gameplay. Excellent graphics. Excellent everything
8073) One of the best games i  have every played. I dont leave reviews but i know people will HATE BUT YOUR NOT STOPPING THIS GAME!!!!
8074) An amazing game, with emotions punching me left and right. Surprises I never expected. God-tier animations, arguably next-gen. Much improved gameplay over the first one. Did not expect Naughty Dog to have a game on par and exceeded the first Last of Us.
8075) It’s just good. They have expanded upon the first game very well and they didn’t take the easy way out by giving us some cheesy adventure. I think that most of the hate is coming from the fact that Ellie is gay. To the people that dislike the game for that reason I say grow up.
8076) Probably one of the best games of all time.,Just don't listen to those angry xbox and nintendo trolls.,Metacritic will delete all those multi account troll reviews soon anyways.
8077) A beautiful story of revenge and anger. Technically perfect. Immersive. Prepare your emotions for such an amazing journey.
8078) Playing from start to finish with our emotions, this suite constantly oscillates between waking dreams, where the tenderness of an exchange frozen forever in the distant past will be enough to move us, and brutality of the present time inseparable from a ripe way of the cross by an implacable feeling of revenge. Making the unpredictable a norm, overflowing with creativity through moments imbued with delicacy, this suite surprises and makes us think about the consequences of our actions while mistreating us emotionally. Having refined its gameplay, now much more immersive, this part II stands out as a fabulous action / infiltration title but also and above all as a story, sometimes getting lost in some narrative stretches and other superfluous scenes but never deviating from its guideline dedicated to offering its characters a conclusion, whether happy or not. Like all creations bearing the mark of their authors, The Last of Us Part II will provoke debates, reactions, which, like its protagonists, remains terribly human. Whether we like it or not, there remains a major work here that will haunt us several days after we finish it and which we now say as the new example to follow in its field or more simply as a breathtaking, heartbreaking and magnificent story to that time.
8079) masterpiece.. this game is much better than last time. Especially, fighiting motion is excellent. It was three hours after I turned it on.
8080) An absolute masterpiece, from the writing, to the graphics, it's some of the best this medium has to offer, thank you Naughty Dog
8081) amazing game, the quality of music, environment.,Perhaps Joel's death is shocking, but it gives weight to the reason for the engine in the story.
8082) Amazing game , the best that naughty dog has ever made. Graphics are really good, and the story is clearly one of the best
8083) A game worth buying. Not for faint hearted be minded its emotionally roller-coaster.
8084) Graphics, gameplay, story. It’s a masterpiece, plain and simple. The themes in this game build and expand upon its prequel in ways that don’t resort to trope. We’ve all over-analyzed the first game, and this game seems to leave us with questions we didn’t think to ask before.
8085) just finished. wow. great game. not perfect but it was a ride. brutal and emotional. most of the people review bombing haven’t even played the game, they just saw the leaks. lol
8086) Amazing game. leaks were fake graphics are hot af i love this game
8087) Great game, had to play it early because bol sent it 3 days early, I hate the SJW parts, but those are not often and don't feel as pushed as in the leaks, furthermore many people were mad because one thing happens, but I can tell there is a great build up to it. But I agree with what was said by some developers that you need to go open-minded in this game.
8088) Game of the year, a worthy continuation of the first part!,Play for everyone!
8089) Best game of the year so far, by far, and one of the best of the decade. This game is awesome! Gameplay, narrative, the roller coaster of emotions. It doesn't give you what you want, no, it definitely doesn't., but it's such a unique experience, very harsh and turbulent, but your ride will be well worth it and really enjoyable.
8090) The Best gameplay, the story have a twist very important, for the future of games...
8091) Not better than tlow 1, but zaebisi. 4etko,  na urovne.  Horosho tak. Mne zashla
8092) I have completed this game and My God...what a game. The story direction, voice acting, Incredible graphics, gameplay are all top notch. Many will not like the direction but if you have an open mind you will love it.,ND went far and beyond to a story like this.
8093) Masterpiece. Story took risks and pulled it off, game play was refreshing and amazing, it was very brutal and gave you the feeling of guilt and pressure of killing like no game before did, all the bad reviews are just blind fortnite kids who haven't even played the game
8094) I think it's a masterpiece. It might not be the sequel everyone hoped for but it's still an amazing game. I really can't understand all the hate.
8095) I love this game, great story, I don't think any game developer will try this kind of story its just so different from other games. My Game of the year 2020. I feel bad for the people who doesn't like this game.
8096) The game is great btw,  I enjoy it so much.  Good job Naughty Dog!
8097) Really fun game all i can say is play the game for yourself don't listen to the bad reviews from posting this the game has been released for 8 hours and 21 minutes yet people are saying they've completed a game that takes 25/30 hours to complete so don't listen to the bad reviews they are just people trying to vring down the game
8098) 10/10 Masterpiece and defining game of 8th generation. Don't believe haters.
8099) Great Gameplays and storytelling, isn't better than the first one, but is super good
8100) The best game without a doubt.
8101) Still don't know if the game is top tier yet or not since I only played a few hours, but for sure the game isn't as bad as what they say it is
8102) I still play 7 hours and is so much intense and beautiful game.
8103) Best game of the generation! Best graphics, soundtrack, gameplay, voice acting. Troy Baker's performance in this game is just out of this world. How does he do it? Also a huge shoutout to Laura Bailey for turning a monster into one of my favourite characters. This game is just..... I'm just grateful that it exists. 10/10.
8104) Just a amazing tittle. This franchise just changed my life in ways I can't explain.
8105) This game is masterpiece i love this game this was best game on this decade
8106) Masterpiece！Best game of the generation! Best graphics, soundtrack, gameplay！
8107) Absolute masterpiece. Storytelling. Gameplay. Movement. Camera. Combat. A technical marvel in gaming.
8108) They decided to make risky descisions, but at the the end, it works perfectly... you have to play to understand! This is a masterpiece
8109) Hard game and complicated to understand for all, but it’s fantastic looks.
8110) Great game with insanely beautiful graphics and music. I recommend everyone to play a masterpiece!
8111) What a game you should give it a try really than just review bombing played for 12 hours so far 100/10
8112) The video game is incredible, I loved it, but I can't believe the story ... it is very bad and it doesn't come close to the first one, even so in graphics and gameplay it will not disappoint anyone, I kept awake to finish it and it was worth the  pity, I skipped the cinematics when I reach the middle of the story, they are unfortunate ... but since it is not a movie and I loved the gameplay I give it a 9
8113) Stunning. Animation and graphic is the best of all the time. Many of plot twists, very brutal. Love it.
8114) A beautiful one of the best stories ive seen in games, with next gen graphics, animations and lighting that ive never seen before. This is truly a game of a generation that you need to experience
8115) A masterpiece was released on June 19th,Game of the generation Best looking graphics since RDR2
8116) This game is masterpiece,  awesome graphics,nice gameplay  and the best story ever
8117) This game changed my life. I understand some people only want to play Fortnite, that's fine, but this game is the future of gaming. Character development is quite usual actually. It's nice to play a new game, if I wanted the old one, I would just play it again. Which I do. Some fans just want the same thing over and over again.
8118) Wow Just Wow. I still can't comprehend the fact that i played a game which not only made me cry but gave me a thrilling experience. The graphics of this game are top notch, the story line is incredible. 10/10 will play it again
8119) A truly masterpiece game. One of the best of the genration. The best looking game ive playes so far with the stunning animations thats so realistic. Excellent voice acting and amazing soundtrack from gustavo like the first one.
8120) Easily one of the best narrative driven games of the generation, take it from someone who's actually played it. Game play has some new features, but nothing too intrusive, feels just like picking up from the end of the first one.
